********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Business and Strategic Risks General economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the United States. Slower global economic growth, increasing interest rates, inflationary pressures, instability and uncertainty in the markets in which we operate may adversely impact our business resulting in: • reduced demand and longer sales cycle for our products, delays in the shipment of orders, or increases in order cancellations; • increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • increased price pressure for our products and services; and • greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our investment portfolio. 17 Our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our products decline or do not grow as anticipated. Visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. In addition, our revenue and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality of our markets. However, the markets we serve do not always experience the seasonality that we expect as customer spending policies and budget allocations, particularly for capital items, may change. Any decline in our customers' markets or in general economic conditions has in the past and may in the future result in a reduction in demand for our products and services. Also, if our customers' markets decline, we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. Such declines could harm our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. Also, in such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, research and development and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. If we do not introduce successful new products and services in a timely manner to address increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards, our products and services may become obsolete, and our operating results may suffer. We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new product and service introductions, rapid technological changes and changing industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new products, services and enhancements, our products and services may become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results could suffer. The success of our new products and services will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • properly identify customer needs and predict future needs; • innovate and develop new technologies, services and applications; • appropriately allocate our research and development spending to products and services with higher growth prospects; • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; • manufacture and deliver new products in sufficient volumes and on time; • differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; • price our products competitively; • anticipate our competitors' development of new products, services or technological innovations; and • control product quality in our manufacturing process. In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our profitability. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new and enhanced products and services, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our operating results may suffer. In addition, promising new products may fail to reach the market or realize only limited commercial success because of real or perceived concerns of our customers. Furthermore, as we collaborate with pharmaceutical customers to develop drugs such as companion diagnostics assays or provide drug components like active pharmaceutical ingredients, we face risks that those drug programs may be cancelled upon clinical trial failures. 18 Economic, political, foreign currency and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. International revenue and costs are subject to the risk that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results when translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Overall, foreign currency movements for the year ended October 31, 2024, had no overall impact on revenue growth when compared to the same period last year. Typically, when movements in foreign currency exchange rates have a negative impact on revenue, they will also have a positive impact by reducing our costs and expenses. In addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers, job functions, outsourcing activities and manufacturing facilities are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: • interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • ongoing instability or changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by pandemics like COVID-19, the current conflicts in Ukraine/Russia and the Middle East, and political and trade uncertainties in the greater China region; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, as well as new tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, new or different customs duties, trade embargoes and sanctions and other trade barriers; • tariffs imposed by the U.S. on goods from other countries and tariffs imposed by other countries on U.S. goods, including the tariffs enacted by the U.S. government on various imports from China and by the Chinese government on certain U.S. goods; • negative consequences from changes in or differing interpretations of laws and regulations, including those related to tax and import/export; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • differing protection of intellectual property; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • geopolitical uncertainty or turmoil, terrorism and war; and • impact of public health crises, including pandemics and epidemics, such as COVID-19, on the global economy. We sell our products into many countries and we also source many components and materials for our products from and manufacture our products in various countries. Future tariffs and tariffs already implemented could have negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. It may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our business operations in order to adapt to any such change. Further, additional tariffs, the scope and duration of which, if implemented, remains uncertain, which have been proposed or threatened and the potential escalation of a trade war and retaliatory measures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our accounting and tax processes including general accounting, cost accounting, accounts payable, accounts receivable and tax functions are centralized at locations in India and Malaysia. If economical, political, health or other conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers and collect our receivables. Our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. In addition, a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, within any given twelve-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates, including those caused by currency controls, could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. For expenses beyond that twelve-month period, our hedging strategy does not mitigate our exposure. In addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. The weakening or failure of financial institution counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms, and the failure of the counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. 19 Demand for some of our products and services depends on the capital spending policies of our customers, research and development budgets and on government funding policies. Our customers include pharmaceutical companies, laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public and private research institutions. Many factors, including public policy spending priorities, available resources, mergers and consolidations, institutional and governmental budgetary policies and spending priorities, and product and economic cycles, have a significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, consolidation, spending priorities, general economic conditions, medical reimbursement policies and institutional and governmental budgetary policies. The timing and amount of revenue from customers that rely on government or research funding may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast, including changes in spending authorizations and budgetary priorities for our products and services. If demand for our products and services is adversely affected, our revenue and operating results would suffer. Failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to accurately estimate our customers' demand could adversely affect our income. Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect market fluctuations, including those caused by the seasonal nature of the markets in which we operate. The sales of our products and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal trends in the demand for their products. During a market upturn, we may not be able to purchase sufficient supplies or components to meet increasing product demand, which could materially affect our results. In the past, we have experienced a shortage of parts for some of our products. In addition, some of the parts that require custom design are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to reengineer our product. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In order to secure components for the production of products, we may enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional expenses. Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these personnel, we will not be able to maintain or expand our business. We believe our pay levels are very competitive within the regions that we operate. However, there is intense competition for certain highly technical specialties in geographic areas where we continue to recruit, and it may become more difficult to hire and retain our key employees. Our strategic initiatives to adjust our cost structure could have long-term adverse effects on our business, and we may not realize the operational or financial benefits from such actions. We have implemented multiple strategic initiatives across our businesses to adjust our cost structure, and we may engage in similar activities in the future. These strategic initiatives and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities may distract management, could slow improvements in our products and services and limit our ability to increase production quickly if demand for our products increases. In addition, delays in implementing our strategic initiatives, unexpected costs or failure to meet targeted improvements may diminish the operational and financial benefits we realize from such actions. Any of the above circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and financial condition. Our acquisitions, strategic investments and alliances, joint ventures, exiting of businesses and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. In the normal course of business, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic investments and alliances, joint ventures and divestitures, and generally expect to complete several transactions per year. In addition, we may decide to exit a particular business within our product portfolio. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community's expectations in a given fiscal quarter or over the long term.  We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances the performance of our combined businesses or product lines. Acquired businesses may also expose us to new risks and new markets, and we may have difficulty addressing these risks in a cost effective and timely manner. Transactions such as acquisitions have resulted, and may in the future result in, unexpected significant costs and expenses. In the future, we 20 may be required to record charges to earnings during the period if we determine there is an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, up to the full amount of the value of the assets, or, in the case of strategic investments and alliances, consolidate results, including losses, of third parties or write down investment values or loans and convertible notes related to the strategic investment. Integrating the operations of acquired businesses within Agilent could be a difficult, costly and time-consuming process that involves a number of risks.  Acquisitions and strategic investments and alliances may require us to integrate and collaborate with a different company culture, management team, business model, business infrastructure and sales and distribution methodology and assimilate and retain geographically dispersed, decentralized operations and personnel. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, our successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including introducing new products and meeting revenue targets as expected, the retention of key employees and key customers, increased exposure to certain governmental regulations and compliance requirements and increased costs and use of resources. Further, the integration of acquired businesses is likely to result in our systems and internal controls becoming increasingly complex and more difficult to manage. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Even if we are able to successfully integrate acquired businesses within Agilent, we may not be able to realize the revenue and other synergies and growth that we anticipated from the acquisition in the time frame that we expected, and the costs of achieving these benefits may be higher than what we expected. As a result, the acquisition and integration of acquired businesses may not contribute to our earnings as expected, we may not achieve our operating margin targets when expected, or at all, and we may not achieve the other anticipated strategic and financial benefits of such transactions. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to the purchaser, identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep and reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business.  In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other Agilent products. In exiting a business, we may still retain liabilities associated with the support and warranty of those businesses and other indemnification obligations. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. The impact of consolidation and acquisitions of competitors is difficult to predict and may harm our business. The life sciences industry is intensely competitive and has been subject to increasing consolidation. Consolidation in our industries could result in existing competitors increasing their market share through business combinations and result in stronger competitors, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully in increasingly consolidated industries and cannot predict with certainty how industry consolidation will affect our competitors or us. Public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic may adversely impact, and pose risks to, certain elements of our business, results of operations and financial condition, the nature and extent of which are highly uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19. Public health crises, and any related remediation measures such as quarantine, curfew and other travel and activity restrictions, may impact our operations and sales and delivery of products and services. Our supply chain has in the past and may in the future be impacted, and we could experience disruptions or delays in shipments of certain materials or components of our products. We may be unable to accurately predict the full extent and duration of the impact of a public health crisis on our business and operations due to numerous uncertainties, including the duration and severity of the crisis, the efficacy and distribution of vaccines, containment measures and additional waves of infection. 21 Regulatory, Legal and Compliance Risks If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could lead to a loss of investor confidence in our financial statements and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial statements and to effectively prevent fraud. We devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and continue to enhance our controls. However, we cannot be certain that we will be able to prevent future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses.  Inadequate internal controls could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on investor confidence in our financial statements, the trading price of our stock and our access to capital. Our customers and we are subject to various governmental regulations. Compliance with or changes in such regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses, and if we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Our customers and we are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including but not limited to regulations in the areas of health and safety, packaging, product content, employment, labor and immigration, import/export controls, trade restrictions and anti-competition. In addition, as a global organization, we are subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls in numerous jurisdictions as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal, sensitive and/or patient health data in the course of our business. Global privacy laws, including the EU's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR”), Brazil’s Lei Geral de Protecao de Dados, the California Consumer Privacy Act and China’s Personal Information Protection Law and Data Security Law, apply to our activities involving the processing of personal data, both in relation to our product and service offerings and the management of our workforce. The global proliferation of privacy laws, with governmental authorities around the world passing or considering passing legislative and regulatory proposals concerning privacy and data protection, continues to result in new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and when personal data may be transferred outside the country where it was collected. Many such laws impose significant penalties for non-compliance (including possible fines of up to four percent of total company revenue under the GDPR or orders to stop processing personal data in a particular jurisdiction). Each of these privacy, security and data protection laws and regulations could impose significant limitations and increase our cost of providing our products and services where we process personal data and could harm our results of operations and expose us to significant fines, penalties and other damages. We must also comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, anti-competition regulations and sanctions imposed by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control and other similar laws and regulations. Such laws demand that we implement, test, and monitor an effective compliance program in order to detect and prevent instances of non-compliance. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, suspension of government contracts or debarment, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brand, our ability to attract and retain employees, our international operations, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We may be required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations or to remedy any violations of these regulations. Any failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in the cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, product recalls or impositions of fines, suspension of government contracts or debarment, and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. In addition, because many of our products are regulated or sold into regulated industries, we must comply with additional regulations in marketing our products. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products, force us to modify our products to comply with new regulations or increase our costs of producing these products. If demand for our products is adversely affected or our costs increase, our operating results and business would suffer. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the FDA. We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. 22 We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of our products and services are subject to regulation by the FDA, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies. In addition, a number of our products and services may in the future be subject to regulation by the FDA and certain similar foreign regulatory agencies.  These regulations govern a wide variety of product and service-related activities, from quality management, design and development to manufacturing, labeling, promotion, sales and distribution. In addition, we are subject to inspections by these and other regulatory authorities.  If we or any of our suppliers, distributors or customers fail to comply with FDA regulations and other applicable regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face, among other things, warning letters; adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; investigations or notices of non-compliance, fines, injunctions, and civil or criminal penalties; import or export restrictions; partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities or the imposition of operating restrictions; suspension or revocation of our license to operate, increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals or foreign equivalents; seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; or the inability to sell our products. Any such FDA or other regulatory agency actions could disrupt our business and operations, lead to significant remedial costs and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the global regulatory environment has become increasingly stringent for our products and services. For example, the EU has started to enforce new requirements, known as the EU In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (the “EU IVDR”), which imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of in vitro diagnostics in the European Union. These new regulations are more stringent in a variety of areas, including clinical evidence requirements, quality management systems and post-market surveillance activities. The new EU IVDR requirements became effective starting in May 2022. Failure to meet these requirements could adversely impact our business in the EU and other regions that tie their product registrations to the EU requirements. Some of our products are subject to particularly complex regulations such as regulations of toxic substances, and failure to comply with such regulations could harm our business. Some of our products and related consumables are used in conjunction with chemicals whose manufacture, processing, distribution and notification requirements are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) under the Toxic Substances Control Act ("TSCA") and by regulatory bodies in other countries under similar laws, to prevent unreasonable risks to human health or the environment. Under the TSCA, the EPA has authority to require reporting, record-keeping and testing, and to implement restrictions relating to chemical substances and/or mixtures. The TSCA prohibits persons from manufacturing (domestic production or importation of) any chemical in the United States that has not been reviewed by the EPA for its effect on health and safety or which is not listed on the EPA TSCA chemical substance inventory. We must ensure conformance of the manufacturing, storing, processing, distribution of and notification about these chemicals to these laws and adapt to regulatory requirements in all applicable countries as these requirements change. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, then we could be subject to civil penalties, criminal prosecution and, in some cases, prohibition from distributing or marketing our products until the products or component substances are brought into compliance. Our business may suffer if we fail to comply with government contracting laws and regulations. We derive a portion of our revenue from direct and indirect sales to U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign governments and their respective agencies. Such contracts are subject to various procurement laws and regulations and contract provisions relating to their formation, administration and performance. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations or provisions in our government contracts could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, suspension of government contracts or debarment, termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, increased pricing pressure or suspension from future government contracting. If our government contracts are terminated, if we are suspended from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our business could suffer. 23 Our reputation, ability to do business and financial statements may be harmed by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. Our internal controls and compliance systems may not always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the United States and in other jurisdictions, and related shareholder lawsuits could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable as a successor for violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. We also rely on our suppliers to adhere to our supplier standards of conduct, and material violations of such standards of conduct could occur that could have a material effect on our business, reputation and financial statements. We are subject to evolving corporate governance and public disclosure expectations and regulations that impact compliance costs and risks of noncompliance. We are subject to changing rules and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC and NYSE, as well as evolving investor expectations around corporate governance and environmental and social practices and disclosures. These rules and regulations continue to evolve in scope and complexity, and many new requirements have been created in response to laws enacted by the U.S., local and foreign governments, making compliance more difficult and uncertain. The increase in costs to comply with such evolving expectations, rules and regulations, as well as any risk of noncompliance, could adversely impact us. In addition, we face increasing scrutiny from stakeholders with respect to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) practices and disclosures. Also, various legal and regulatory requirements specific to ESG matters in the U.S., EU, local or other jurisdictions in which we operate are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent. For instance, we are subject to various laws against forced labor which have been promulgated by many regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions where we operate. Any failure to adequately address stakeholder expectations with respect to ESG matters may result in an adverse impact on our business, financial results, stock price or reputation. Our ability to achieve our current and future ESG goals is uncertain and remains subject to numerous risks, including evolving regulatory requirements and stakeholder expectations, our ability to recruit and retain a diverse workforce, the availability of suppliers and other business partners that can meet our ESG expectations and standards, cost considerations and the development and availability of cost-effective technologies or resources that support our ESG goals. Environmental contamination from past and ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities. Certain properties we have previously owned or leased are undergoing remediation for subsurface contamination.  Although we are indemnified for liability relating to the required remediation at some of those properties, we may be subject to liability if these indemnification obligations are not fulfilled.  In other cases, we have agreed to indemnify the current owners of certain properties for liabilities related to contamination, including companies with which we have previously been affiliated such as HP, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Enterprise (formerly Hewlett-Packard Company) and Siemens Healthineers (formerly Varian Medical Systems, Inc.).  Further, other properties we have previously owned or leased at which we have operated in the past, or for which we have otherwise contractually assumed or provided indemnities, certain actual or contingent environmental liabilities, may or do require remediation. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with any potential environmental contamination at any of those properties or facilities, we may be exposed to material liability if environmental contamination at material levels is found to exist. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of certain companies, we have assumed other costs and potential or contingent liabilities for environmental matters.  Any significant costs or liabilities could have an adverse effect on results of operations. 24 We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that expose us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. Our current and historical manufacturing and research and development processes and facilities are subject to various foreign, federal, state and local environment protection and health and safety laws and regulations. As a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. Although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection and health and safety at our sites inside and outside the United States, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability.  Further, in the event that any future climate change legislation would require that stricter standards be imposed by domestic or international environmental regulatory authorities, we may be required to make certain changes and adaptations to our manufacturing processes and facilities. We cannot predict how changes will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance to us, our customers or our suppliers. Failure to comply with these environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations could result in civil, criminal, regulatory, administrative or contractual sanction, including fines, penalties or suspensions, restrictions on our operations and reputational damage.  If we have any violations of, or incur liabilities pursuant to these laws or regulations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Issues in the development, deployment, and use of artificial intelligence technologies in our business operations, services and products may result in reputational harm, regulatory action, or legal liability, and any failure to adapt to such technological developments or industry trends could adversely affect the competitiveness of our business . We are integrating artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies (“AI”) into our business operations, products and services, while continuing to explore the opportunities that AI could bring to the company. The use of AI, particularly generative AI, presents opportunities as well as risks that could negatively impact the business. The development, deployment, and use of AI, including within the life sciences industry, is still in its early stages, where the use of insufficiently developed AI technologies and premature deployment practices could result in unintended outcomes that harm the business. AI technologies may be developed using inaccurate, incomplete, flawed or biased algorithms, training methodologies or data, which could result in competitive harm, regulatory penalties, legal liability, or brand or reputational harm. Further, a failure to timely and effectively use or deploy AI and integrate it into new product offerings and services could negatively impact our competitiveness, particularly ahead of evolving industry trends and evolving consumer demands. We may be unable to devote adequate financial resources to develop or acquire new AI technologies and systems in the future. Use of AI to improve internal business operations, or in the development or provision of products or services, poses risks and challenges. AI can pose risks from an intellectual property, confidential data leakage, data protection, privacy perspective, as well as raise ethical concerns, compliance issues, and security risks. The input of confidential information or trade secrets into AI systems may result in the loss of intellectual property, proprietary rights, or attorney-client privilege in such information or trade secrets. The use of AI technologies for developing products or services may adversely affect or preclude the company’s intellectual property rights in such products or services, or may expose the company to liability related to the infringement, misappropriation or other violation of third-party intellectual property. The use of AI technologies with personally identifiable information may also result in legal liability. Further, particularly given the nascent stage of the technology, the use of AI can lead to unintended consequences, including the generation of outputs that appear correct but are factually inaccurate, misleading, or that result in unintended biases and discriminatory outcomes, or are otherwise flawed, which could harm our reputation and business and expose us to risks related to such inaccuracies or errors in these outputs. Moreover, AI is subject to a dynamic and rapidly evolving legal and regulatory environment, which, without appropriate review, governance and risk management, could expose the company to unforeseen legal or regulatory scrutiny and liabilities. As such, it remains uncertain how AI laws and regulations will impact our business or the associated cost or risks related to compliance therewith or with respect to embedding compliance mechanisms appropriately and effectively into our operations. The use of AI may be subject to new legal or regulatory requirements, the impact of which may be prohibitive or pose further risks from a legal or regulatory action perspective. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. From time to time, third parties may claim that one or more of our products or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case by case basis. Any dispute or litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. A claim of intellectual property infringement could force us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement, which might not be available under acceptable terms or at all, could require us to redesign our products, which would be costly and time- 25 consuming, and/or could subject us to significant damages or to an injunction against the development and sale of certain of our products or services. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of intellectual property infringement. In certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will continue to be available to us in the future or can be expanded to cover new products on favorable terms or at all. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish, maintain and enforce our proprietary rights. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. Our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. We may need to spend significant resources monitoring and enforcing our intellectual property rights, and we may not be aware of or able to detect or prove infringement by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights quickly or at all. In some circumstances, we may choose to not pursue enforcement because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. In addition, competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to capture market share and could result in lost revenues. Furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others which may allow them to compete with us using that intellectual property. Operational Risks Our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our products. Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand does not meet our expectations, our manufacturing capacity may exceed our production requirements. If during an economic downturn we had excess manufacturing capacity which could occur due to our plans to expand certain manufacturing capacities, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. If, during a general market upturn or an upturn in one of our segments, we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we may not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our results. If we are unable to successfully manage the consolidation and streamlining of our manufacturing operations, we may not achieve desired efficiencies, and our ability to deliver products to our customers could be disrupted. Although we utilize manufacturing facilities throughout the world, we have consolidated, and may further consolidate, our manufacturing operations to certain of our facilities to achieve efficiencies and gross margin improvements. Additionally, we typically consolidate the production of products from our acquisitions into our supply chain and manufacturing processes, which are technically complex and require expertise to operate. If we are unable to establish processes to efficiently and effectively produce high quality products in the consolidated locations, we may not achieve the anticipated synergies and production may be disrupted, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 26 Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain, including logistics and third-party package delivery services, may adversely affect our ability to bring products to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to manage costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers' orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. If one or more of the third-party package delivery or other logistics providers we use experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, we may have to seek alternative providers, which could result in increased costs, and/or delay the delivery of our products. Additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers, logistics providers or other outsourcers could cause disruptions or delays. In addition, we outsource significant portions of our information technology ("IT") and other administrative functions. Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure to perform on the part of our IT providers could impair our ability to operate effectively. In addition to the risks outlined above, problems with manufacturing or IT outsourcing could result in lower revenue and unexecuted efficiencies and impact our results of operations and our stock price. If we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our factories, facilities and distribution system are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, public health crises, increasing severity or frequency of extreme weather events, or other climate-change related risks, including resource scarcity, rationing or unexpected costs from increases in fuel and raw material prices that may be caused by extreme weather conditions. In addition, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake due to their locations. Our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in California, and our production facilities in Japan, are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. In addition, our facilities in California are susceptible to extreme weather conditions such as drought, flooding and wildfires. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, because we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities and we may not have redundant manufacturing capability readily available, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in the event of a catastrophe in any one location. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, these coverages are subject to deductibles as well as caps and may not be sufficient to cover the entirety of potential losses in certain catastrophic events. We do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. If our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our financial condition will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, or if we fail to implement new systems and software successfully, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on several centralized information technology systems throughout our company to provide products and services, keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. Our information technology systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophes or other unforeseen events. For example, in December 2020, it was widely reported that SolarWinds, an information technology company, was the subject of a cyberattack that created security vulnerabilities for thousands of its clients. We identified an impacted SolarWinds server and promptly took steps to contain and remediate the incidents. While we believe that there were no disruptions to our operations as a result of this attack, other similar attacks could have a significant negative impact on our systems and operations. Our information technology systems also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with system integration, software upgrades or system migration work that takes place from time to time. If we were to experience a prolonged system disruption in the information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, security breaches of our information technology systems or products could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, 27 partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. Concern over increasingly prevalent cyberattacks or other forms of security breaches of information technology systems can result in additional legal and regulatory requirements in the markets we operate our business and may lead to increased compliance burdens and costs to meet the regulatory obligations. For example, as a U.S. publicly traded company, we are subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Final Rule on Cybersecurity Risk Management, Strategy, Governance and Incident Disclosure which requires enhanced disclosure requirements for cybersecurity, with similar applicable requirements under the EU’s NIS2 Directive and China’s Data Security Law. Financial and Tax Risks Our retirement and post retirement pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our future results of operations and cash flows. We have significant retirement and post retirement pension plan assets and obligations. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant decreases in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets will increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. Changes in tax laws, unfavorable resolution of tax examinations, or exposure to additional tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are subject to taxes in the U.S., Singapore and various foreign jurisdictions. Governments in the jurisdictions in which we operate implement changes to tax laws and regulations periodically. Any implementation of tax laws that fundamentally change the taxation of corporations in the U.S. or Singapore could materially impact our effective tax rate and could have a significant adverse impact on our financial results. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") has introduced rules to establish a global minimum tax rate of 15 percent, commonly referred to as the Pillar Two rules. Many countries have enacted legislation to implement the Pillar Two rules. We are currently evaluating the potential impacts that Pillar Two may have on future periods and will continue to monitor the implementation of the Pillar Two rules in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We are also subject to examinations of our tax returns by tax authorities in various jurisdictions around the world. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. These assessments can require a high degree of judgment and estimation. Intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost share arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from ongoing tax examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. A difference in the ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties from what is currently estimated could have an adverse effect on our financial results and condition. If tax incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. We benefit from tax incentives extended to our foreign subsidiaries to encourage investment or employment. Singapore has granted us tax incentives which require renewal at various times in the future. The incentives are conditioned on achieving various thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income. Our taxes could increase if the incentives are not renewed upon expiration. If we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or parts of the tax incentive conditions, we may lose the related tax incentive and could be required to refund tax incentives previously realized. As a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we maintained the benefits of the tax incentives. We have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are party to a $1.5 billion five-year unsecured credit facility that will expire on June 7, 2028. Furthermore, we are permitted pursuant to the credit agreement to establish an incremental revolving credit facility of up to $750 million. We also entered into an Uncommitted Money Market Line Credit agreement which provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $300 million. Under our U.S. commercial paper program, the company may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.5 billion with up to 397-day maturities. As of October 31, 2024, we had approximately $3.4 billion in outstanding indebtedness which included an aggregate outstanding principal amount of $3.3 billion in unsecured senior notes. We may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future 28 borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. Our incurrence of this debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring the dedication of an increased portion of our expected cash flows from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flows available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases and dividends; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry. Our credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, the indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens or engage in certain types of sale and leaseback transactions. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders or noteholders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. We cannot assure that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock. Since the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we have paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends fall within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our available cash, estimated cash needs, earnings, financial condition, operating results, capital requirements, as well as limitations in our contractual agreements, applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant. A change in our dividend program could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. As of October 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1,329 million invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. Disruptions and volatility in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid or hinder our ability to borrow money in the amounts, at interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available under different economic circumstances. Any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our operating results and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding growth opportunities, including for and in our end markets, new product and service introductions, the position and strength of our businesses, products and services, market demand for and adoption of our products and solutions, the ability of our products and solutions to address customer needs and meet industry requirements, our focus on enhancing our customers' experience, delivering differentiated product solutions and driving productivity improvements, our investments, including in manufacturing infrastructure, research and development and expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolios, expanding our position in developing countries and emerging markets, our contributions to our defined benefit plans, our hedging programs and other actions to offset the effects of foreign currency and interest rate movements, our future effective tax rate, unrecognized tax benefits, reimbursement incentives, our ability to satisfy our liquidity requirements, including through cash generated from operations, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, indemnification obligations, our sales, our purchase commitments, our capital expenditures, the integration, effects and timing of our acquisitions and other transactions, expense reduction and other results from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, our stock repurchase program and dividends, macroeconomic and market conditions, the recovery and health of our end markets, seasonality, mix, future financial results, our operating margin, our geographical diversification, interest rates, inflationary pressures and local regulations and restrictions, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Part I Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 32 Overview and Executive Summary Agilent Technologies Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a global leader in life sciences, diagnostics and applied chemical markets, providing application focused solutions that include instruments, software, services and consumables for the entire laboratory workflow. New Segment Structure In the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, we announced a change in our operating segments to move our cell analysis business from our life sciences and applied markets segment to our diagnostics and genomics operating segment in order to further strengthen growth opportunities for both organizations. Following this reorganization, we continue to have three business segments comprised of life sciences and applied markets, diagnostics and genomics and Agilent CrossLab, each of which continues to comprise a reportable segment. We began reporting under this new structure with the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended January 31, 2024. All historical financial segment information has been recast to conform to this new presentation in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. There was no change to our Agilent CrossLab business segment. Acquisition On September 20, 2024, we acquired 100 percent of the stock of BIOVECTRA for total consideration of $915 million in cash. The acquisition expands our contract development and manufacturing organization. As a result of the acquisition, BIOVECTRA became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. The acquisition has been accounted for in accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, and the results of BIOVECTRA are included in Agilent's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. Senior Notes 2027 Senior Notes. On September 9, 2024, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes ("2027 senior notes"). The 2027 senior notes were issued at 99.866% of their principal amount. The notes will mature on September 9, 2027, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.20% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March 9th and September 9th of each year and payments will commence on March 9, 2025. 2034 Senior Notes. On September 9, 2024, we issued an aggregate principal amount of $600 million in senior notes ("2034 senior notes"). The 2034 senior notes were issued at 99.638% of their principal amount. The 2034 senior notes will mature on September 9, 2034, and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.75% per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on March 9th and September 9th of each year and payments will commence on March 9, 2025. Actual Results Agilent's net revenue of $6,510 million in 2024 decreased 5 percent when compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements for 2024 had no overall impact on revenue growth when compared to 2023. Net revenue declined in our life sciences and applied markets and diagnostics and genomics segments, mostly in the pharmaceutical market, due primarily to the overall pressures on our customers' capital expenditure spending which continued in 2024. Revenue declines were partially offset by revenue growth in our Agilent CrossLab segment. Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business decreased 8 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023.  Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to 2023. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business decreased 6 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to 2023. Revenue in the Agilent CrossLab business increased 5 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to 2023. Agilent's net revenue of $6,833 million was slightly down in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements for 2023 had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points when compared to 2022. Net revenue declined in our life sciences and applied markets segment, in the pharmaceutical market and in the Asia Pacific region primarily related to weaker demand in China and an overall pressure on our customers' capital expenditures compared to 2022. The net revenue decline was partially offset by revenue growth from our other segments primarily in Agilent CrossLab. Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business decreased 3 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business decreased 1 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an 33 overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Revenue in the Agilent CrossLab business increased 8 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Net income was $1,289 million in 2024 compared to net income of $1,240 million and $1,254 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Net income in 2024 was impacted by cost-saving initiatives and higher interest income. Net income in 2023 was impacted by the asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business and lower tax expense. Net income in 2022 was impacted by higher sales volume partially offset by supply chain, logistics and inflationary pressures increasing our costs.  As of October 31, 2024 and 2023, we had cash and cash equivalents balances of $1,329 million and $1,590 million, respectively. 2021 Repurchase Program. During the year ended October 31, 2022, we repurchased and retired 8.4 million shares for $1,139 million under this authorization. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we repurchased and retired 661,739 shares for $99 million, excluding excise taxes, under this authorization. On March 1, 2023, the 2021 repurchase program was terminated and the remaining authorization of $339 million expired. 2023 Repurchase Program. On January 9, 2023, we announced that our board of directors had approved a share repurchase program (the "2023 repurchase program") designed, among other things, to reduce or eliminate dilution resulting from issuance of stock under the company's employee equity incentive programs. The 2023 repurchase program authorizes the purchase of up to $2.0 billion, excluding excise taxes, of our common stock at the company's discretion and has no fixed termination date. The 2023 repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended, amended or discontinued at any time. The 2023 repurchase program commenced on March 1, 2023, and also terminated and replaced the 2021 repurchase program. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we repurchased and retired 3.9 million shares for $476 million, excluding excise taxes, under this authorization.  During the year ended October 31, 2024, we repurchased and retired 8.4 million shares for $1,150 million, excluding excise taxes, under this authorization. As of October 31, 2024, we had remaining authorization to repurchase up to approximately $374 million of our common stock under the 2023 repurchase program. On May 29, 2024, we announced that our board of directors had approved a new share repurchase program (the "2024 repurchase program") designed, among other things, to reduce or eliminate dilution resulting from issuance of stock under the company's employee equity incentive programs. The 2024 repurchase program authorizes the purchase of up to $2.0 billion, excluding excise taxes, of our common stock at the company's discretion and has no fixed termination date. The 2024 repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended, amended or discontinued at any time. The 2024 repurchase program became effective on August 1, 2024 and will commence upon the termination of our 2023 repurchase program. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which was enacted into law on August 16, 2022, imposed a nondeductible 1% excise tax on the net value of certain stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. During the year ended October 31, 2024, we recorded the applicable excise taxes payable of approximately $10 million as an incremental cost of the shares repurchased and a corresponding liability for the excise tax payable in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. In fiscal year 2023, we recorded excise taxes payable of approximately $3 million related to shares repurchased in 2023 and paid the tax in 2024. Dividends. During the year ended October 31, 2024, cash dividends of $0.944 per share, or $274 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. During the year ended October 31, 2023, cash dividends of $0.900 per share, or $265 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. During the year ended October 31, 2022, cash dividends of $0.840 per share, or $250 million were declared and paid on the company's outstanding common stock. On November 20, 2024, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.248 per share of common stock, or approximately $71 million which will be paid on January 22, 2025, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 31, 2024. The timing and amounts of any future dividends are subject to determination and approval by our board of directors. Looking forward, our primary focus remains on enhancing our customers’ experience, delivering differentiated product solutions and driving productivity improvements. While customer capital budgets continue to be constrained, we anticipate a gradual and steady recovery in the short-term. We also remain optimistic about the long-term health of our key end markets. Although inflationary pressures are uncertain, we will continue to mitigate their impact through targeted pricing strategies and various other cost-saving initiatives. 34 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.  An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially change the financial statements. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of goodwill and purchased intangible assets, restructuring and accounting for income taxes. Revenue Recognition . We enter into contracts to sell products, services or combinations of products and services. Products may include hardware or software and services may include one-time service events or services performed over time. We derive revenue primarily from the sale of analytical and diagnostics products and services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct product or service to a customer and is the unit of account under Accounting Standard Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, (“ASC 606’’). Revenue is recognized when control of the promised products or services is transferred to our customers and the performance obligation is fulfilled in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled in exchange for those products or services, the transaction price. For equipment, consumables, and most software licenses, control transfers to the customer at a point in time. We use present right to payment, legal title, physical possession of the asset, and risks and rewards of ownership as indicators to determine the transfer of control to the customer. For products that transfer control over time, revenue is recognized as the performance obligation is satisfied. Product over time revenue is assessed against the following criteria: the performance creates an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created; the asset has no alternative use; and we have an enforceable right to payment. Where acceptance is not a formality, the customer must have documented their acceptance of the product or service. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate performance obligation, product revenue is recognized when control has passed to the customer, and recognition of installation revenue occurs once completed. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors is reduced for provisions for warranties, returns, and other adjustments in the period the related sales are recorded. Service revenue includes extended warranty, customer and software support including: Software as a Service, post contract support, consulting including companion diagnostics, and training and education. Instrument service contracts and software maintenance contracts are typically annual contracts, which are billed at the beginning of the contract or maintenance period. Revenue for these contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis to revenue over the service period, as a time-based measure of progress best reflects our performance in satisfying this obligation. There are no deferred costs associated with the service contract, as the cost of the service is recorded when the service is performed. Service calls not included in a support contract are recognized to revenue at the time a service is performed. We have sales from standalone software. These arrangements typically include software licenses and maintenance contracts, both of which we have determined are distinct performance obligations. We determine the amount of the transaction price to allocate to the license and maintenance contract based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation. Software license revenue is recognized at the point in time when control has been transferred to the customer. The revenue allocated to the software maintenance contract is recognized on a straight-line basis over the maintenance period, which is the contractual term of the contract, as a time-based measure of progress best reflects our performance in satisfying this obligation. Unspecified rights to software upgrades are typically sold as part of the maintenance contract on a when-and-if-available basis. Our multiple-element arrangements are generally comprised of a combination of instruments, installation or other start-up services, and/or software, and/or support or services. Hardware and software elements are typically delivered at the same time and revenue is recognized when control passes to the customer. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. Our arrangements generally do not include any provisions for cancellation, termination, or refunds that would significantly impact recognized revenue. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to each performance obligation based on relative standalone selling prices and recognize the related revenue when or as control of each individual performance obligation is transferred to customers. We estimate the standalone selling price by calculating the 35 average historical selling price of our products and services per geographic region for each performance obligation. Stand-alone selling prices are determined for each distinct good or service in the contract, and then we allocate the transaction price in proportion to those standalone selling prices by performance obligations. A portion of our revenue relates to lease arrangements. Standalone lease arrangements are outside the scope of ASC 606 and are therefore accounted for in accordance with ASC 842, Leases ("ASC 842"). Each of these contracts is evaluated as a lease arrangement, either as an operating lease or a sales-type finance lease using the current lease classification guidance. In a lease arrangement that is a multiple-element arrangement, the revenue associated with the lease component is treated under the lease accounting standard ASC 842, whereas the revenue associated with the non-lease component is recognized in accordance with the ASC 606 revenue standard. Inventory Valuation. Inventory is valued at standard cost, which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a periodic basis and make adjustments to the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon estimates and assumptions about future demand, economic conditions and actual usage, which require management judgment. Such estimates are difficult to make under most economic conditions. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analysis of inventory levels, sales trends and forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory and to estimate and record reserves for excess, slow-moving and obsolete inventory. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write-downs may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold to customers, resulting in lower cost of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period. Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plan Assumptions. Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employees' average expected future service to Agilent based on the terms of the plans and investment and funding decisions. To estimate the impact of these future payments and our decisions concerning funding of these obligations, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Two critical assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long-term return on plan assets. Other important assumptions include expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates, and portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date - October 31 for both U.S. and non-U.S. plans. For 2024 and 2023, the U.S. discount rates were based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio. In 2024, discount rates for the U.S. defined benefit plans and post-retirement benefit plans decreased compared to the previous year due to the decrease in the corporate bond rates. For 2024 and 2023, the discount rates for non-U.S. defined benefit plans were generally based on published rates for high quality corporate bonds and in 2024, mostly decreased compared to the previous year. If we had changed our discount rate by 1 percent, the impact would have been approximately $1 million on U.S. defined benefit plans and post-retirement benefit plans expense and $11 million on non-U.S. defined benefit plans expense for the year ended October 31, 2024. Lower discount rates usually increase present values of the pension benefit obligation and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates usually decrease present values of the pension benefit obligation and subsequent year pension expense. The company uses alternate methods of amortization as allowed by the authoritative guidance which amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. defined benefit plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future lifetime of participants using the corridor method. For most non-U.S. defined benefit plans and U.S. post-retirement benefit plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average remaining future service period or remaining lifetime of participants depending upon the plan, using a separate layer for each year's gains and losses. In the U.S., target asset allocations for our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans were approximately 50 percent to equities and approximately 50 percent to fixed income investments as of October 31, 2024. Our Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan target asset allocation is approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Approximately 1 percent of the retirement and post-retirement plans consists of limited partnerships. Outside the U.S., our target asset allocation (excluding annuity contracts in the U.K.) ranges from zero percent to 60 percent to equities, from 38 percent to 100 percent to fixed income investments, and from zero to 25 percent to real estate, depending on the plan. All plans' assets are broadly diversified. Due to fluctuations in equity and bond markets, our actual allocations of plan assets at October 31, 2024, may differ from the target allocation. Our policy is to bring the actual allocation in line with the target allocation. 36 Equity securities include exchange-traded common stock and preferred stock of companies from broadly diversified industries. Fixed income securities include a global portfolio of corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries, government securities, mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, derivative instruments and other. The annuity contracts are insurance buy-in contracts issued by a third-party insurance company to cover the benefit obligations of all participants under the U.K. defined benefit plan and are funded with existing pension plan assets with no adjustment made to the benefit obligations. Real estate securities include holdings of managed investment funds which invest primarily in the equity instruments of real estate investment trusts and other similar real estate investments. Other investments include a group trust consisting primarily of private equity partnerships. The expected long-term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations as well as historical and expected returns. Plan assets are valued at fair value. If we had changed our estimated return on assets by 1 percent, the impact would have been $4 million on U.S. defined benefit plans and post-retirement benefit plans expense and $8 million on non-U.S. defined benefit plans expense for the year ended October 31, 2024. The total net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit costs recorded were a $9 million benefit in 2024, $6 million expense in 2023 and $2 million benefit in 2022. These costs included a loss on settlement of $2 million, $4 million and $4 million, for the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets. We assess our goodwill and purchased intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Under the authoritative guidance, we have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. The accounting standard gives an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether performing the quantitative test is necessary. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not (i.e., greater than 50% chance) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required. The guidance includes examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount. These include macro-economic conditions such as deterioration in the entity's operating environment or industry or market considerations; entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or a sustained decrease in the stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers. If it is determined, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we are required to perform a quantitative impairment test on goodwill to identify and measure the amount of a goodwill impairment loss to be recognized. A goodwill impairment loss, if any, is measured as the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying value, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. As defined in the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment. We aggregate components of an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics into our reporting units. At the beginning of fiscal year 2024, in connection with the change in our segment reporting, we assessed goodwill impairment for our three reporting units which consisted of our three segments: life sciences and applied markets, diagnostics and genomics and Agilent CrossLab. We performed a quantitative test for goodwill impairment of the three reporting units as of November 1, 2023, due to the change in our segment structure. As of November 1, 2023, there was no impairment of goodwill. In fiscal year 2024, we again assessed goodwill impairment for our three reporting units which consisted of our three segments: life sciences and applied markets, diagnostics and genomics and Agilent CrossLab. We performed a qualitative test for goodwill impairment of the three reporting units as of September 30, 2024, our annual impairment test date. Based on the results of our qualitative testing, there was no impairment of goodwill as of September 30, 2024. Each quarter we review the events and circumstances to determine if goodwill impairment is indicated. There was no impairment of goodwill during the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022. Purchased intangible assets consist primarily of acquired developed technologies, proprietary know-how, trademarks, and customer relationships and are amortized using the best estimate of the asset's useful life that reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits are consumed or used up or a straight-line method ranging from 6 months to 15 years. Our determination of the fair value of the intangible assets acquired involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions.  Specifically, our determination of the fair value of the developed product technology and in-process research and development ("IPR&D") acquired involves significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue growth rates and discount rates. Our determination of the fair value of customer relationships acquired involves significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue growth rates, discount rates, and customer attrition rates. Our determination of the fair value of the trade name acquired involves the 37 use of significant estimates and assumptions related to revenue growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates. We value backlog using the discounted cash flows based on the estimated revenue from pending orders. We value license agreements based on the expected future cash receipts from license agreements, discounted to present value over the term of the agreement. We believe that the fair value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on reasonable assumptions and estimates that marketplace participants would use. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When the IPR&D project is complete, it is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and is amortized over its estimated useful life. If an IPR&D project is abandoned, we will record a charge for the value of the related intangible asset to our consolidated statement of operations in the period it is abandoned. We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of finite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of finite-lived intangible assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are IPR&D intangible assets. The accounting guidance allows a qualitative approach for testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, similar to the issued impairment testing guidance for goodwill and allows the option to first assess qualitative factors (events and circumstances) that could have affected the significant inputs used in determining the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not (i.e., greater than 50% chance) that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An organization may choose to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to calculating its fair value. As of October 31, 2024, we do not have any indefinite-lived intangible assets. During fiscal year 2024, we recorded an impairment of in-process research and development of $6 million in research and development in the consolidated statement of operations related to a project in our life sciences and applied markets segment.  There were no impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets during fiscal years 2023 and 2022. Restructuring. The main components of our restructuring plan are related to workforce reductions, consolidation of excess leased facilities and site closures. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when payment of benefits becomes probable that the employees are entitled to the severance and the amounts can be estimated. Consolidation of facilities costs primarily consists of accelerated depreciation of right-of-use assets classified as held and used. In accordance with the accounting guidance, it was determined that certain assets had been abandoned, and an assessment was made of the remaining useful lives and potential alternative uses. If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amounts of restructuring and other related charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded.  See Note 16. "Restructuring and Other Related Costs" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Accounting for Income Taxes. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax credits, benefits and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes, as well as interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. On a quarterly basis, we provide for income taxes based upon an estimated annual effective tax rate.  The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies.  We monitor the changes in many factors and adjust our effective income tax rate on a timely basis.  If actual results differ from these estimates, this could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant management judgment is also required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more-likely-than-not that all or some portion of deferred tax assets may not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established against such deferred tax assets. We consider all available positive and negative evidence on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis when assessing whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. We consider evidence such as our past operating results, the existence of losses in recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for 38 uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations. Adoption of New Pronouncements See Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements," to the consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. Restructuring and Other Related Costs Summary of Restructuring Plans. In fiscal years 2024 and 2023, we announced restructuring plans that were both designed to reduce costs and expenses in response to macroeconomic conditions. These actions impact all three of our business segments. The costs associated with these restructuring plans were not allocated to our business segments' results; however, each business segment will benefit from the future cost savings from these actions. When completed, the restructuring programs are expected to result in the reduction in annual cost of sales and operating expenses over the three business segments. A summary of our aggregate liability related to both restructuring plans and the total restructuring expense since inception of those plans are shown in the table below: Non-cash settlements include accelerated share-based compensation expense related to workforce reductions and accelerated depreciation expense of right-of-use and machinery and equipment assets related to the consolidation of excess facilities. The aggregate restructuring liability of $ 13 million at October 31, 2024, was recorded in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and reflects estimated future cash outlays. A summary of the charges in the consolidated statement of operations resulting from the restructuring plans are shown below: 39 Fiscal Year 2024 Plan ("FY24 Plan") In the third quarter of fiscal year 2024, we initiated a new restructuring plan designed to further reduce costs and expenses in response to current macroeconomic conditions. The plan includes a reduction of our total headcount by approximately 500 regular employees, representing approximately 3 percent of our global workforce. In connection with the FY24 Plan, we have recorded restructuring expenses of $ 72 million in fiscal year 2024.  The costs associated with this workforce reduction include severance, accelerated share-based compensation expense and other personnel-related costs. The timing and scope of the workforce reductions will vary based on local legal requirements.  While the majority of the workforce reduction was completed in fiscal year 2024, we expect to substantially complete the remaining restructuring activities by the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2025. When completed, the restructuring program is expected to result in the reduction of approximately $100 million in annual cost of sales and operating expenses over our three business segments. A summary of the FY24 Plan activity is shown in the table below: Non-cash settlements include accelerated share-based compensation expense related to workforce reductions. Fiscal Year 2023 Plan ("FY23 Plan") In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023, we initiated the restructuring plan designed to reduce costs and expenses in response to the macroeconomic conditions. The plan included a reduction of our total headcount by approximately 400 regular employees, representing approximately 2 percent of our global workforce, and the consolidation of our excess facilities, including some site closures. In connection with the FY23 Plan, we recorded restructuring expenses of $ 4 million in 2024 and $ 46 million, in 2023. The restructuring plan expenses include severance, accelerated share-based compensation expense and other personnel costs associated with the workforce reduction. The consolidation of excess facilities includes accelerated depreciation expenses of right-of-use and machinery and equipment assets, and other facilities-related costs. The timing and scope of the workforce reductions will vary based on local legal requirements. While the majority of the workforce reduction was completed in 2024, we expect to substantially complete the remaining restructuring activities by the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2025. When completed, the restructuring program is expected to result in the reduction of approximately $80 million in annual cost of sales and operating expenses over our three business segments. 40 A summary of the FY23 Plan activity is shown in the table below: Non-cash settlements include accelerated share-based compensation expense related to workforce reductions and accelerated depreciation expense of right-of-use and machinery and equipment assets related to the consolidation of excess facilities. Foreign Currency Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities and equity are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in the year ended October 31, 2024 when compared to the same period last year. Foreign currency movements for the year ended October 31, 2023, had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue of 2 percentage points when compared to 2022. When movements in foreign currency exchange rates have a negative impact on revenue, they will also have a positive impact by reducing our costs and expenses. We calculate the impact of movements in foreign currency exchange rates by applying the actual foreign currency exchange rates in effect during the last month of each quarter of the current year to both the applicable current and prior year periods. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (up to a rolling twelve-month period). We may also hedge equity balances denominated in foreign currency on a long-term basis. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. 41 Results from Operations Net Revenue Agilent's net revenue of $6,510 million for the year ended October 31, 2024, decreased 5 percent when compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to 2023. For the year ended October 31, 2024, net revenue declined in our life sciences and applied markets and diagnostics and genomics segments, mostly in the pharmaceutical market, due primarily to the overall pressures on our customers' capital expenditure spending which continued in 2024.  Revenue declines were partially offset by revenue growth in our Agilent CrossLab segment. Agilent's net revenue of $6,833 million was slightly down in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, net revenue declined in our life sciences and applied markets segment in the pharmaceutical market and in the Asia Pacific region primarily related to weaker demand in China and an overall pressure on our customers' capital expenditures compared to the same period last year. The net revenue decline was partially offset by revenue growth from our other segments primarily in Agilent CrossLab. Product revenue includes revenue generated from the sales of our analytical instrumentation, software and consumables.  Revenue from products decreased 7 percent for the year ended October 31, 2024, when compared to 2023. The product revenue decline was primarily driven by decreases in our liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, cell analysis and nucleic acid solutions businesses partially offset by increases in our consumables and pathology businesses when compared to 2023. Overall, product revenue declined due to our customers' continued capital expenditure pressures and mostly impacted the pharmaceutical market within our life sciences and applied markets and diagnostics and genomics segments. Revenue from products decreased 3 percent for the year ended October 31, 2023, when compared to 2022. The decrease in product revenue in the year ended October 31, 2023, was primarily due to significant declines in our mass spectrometry, genomics, gas chromatography and cell analysis businesses partially offset by strong growth in our nucleic acid solutions and pathology businesses, and modest growth in our spectroscopy business. Overall, product revenue declined due to our customers' capital expenditure pressures and mostly impacted the pharmaceutical market within our life sciences and applied markets segment. Services and other revenue consist of contract repair, preventative maintenance, compliance services, relocation services, installation services, and consulting services related to the companion diagnostics and nucleic acid solutions businesses. Services and other revenue increased 3 percent in 2024 as compared to 2023. Services and other revenue reflected strong growth from contract repair and preventative maintenance services partly offset by declines in installation services related to the decline of the product revenues. Services and other revenue increased 7 percent in 2023 as compared to 2022. Service revenue increases reflected strong growth from contract repair services, consultative services, per incident repair and maintenance services, and relocation services in all key end markets. 42 Net Revenue By Segment Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business decreased 8 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to 2023. For the year ended October 31, 2024, revenue declined in all of our end markets. We saw a significant decline in revenue in the pharmaceutical, chemical and advanced materials, food and academia and government markets when compared to 2023. Revenue in the life sciences and applied markets business decreased 3 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, we saw a significant decline in revenue in the pharmaceutical and the diagnostics and clinical markets partially offset by strong growth in the academia and government market when compared to 2022. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business decreased 6 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to 2023. In 2024, we saw a significant decline in revenue in the pharmaceutical market due to lower sales in our nucleic acid solutions, cell analysis and genomics businesses when compared to 2023. Revenue in the diagnostics and genomics business decreased 1 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Revenue declined in the academia and government and pharmaceutical markets partially offset by revenue growth in the diagnostics and clinical market when compared to 2022. Revenue in the Agilent CrossLab business increased 5 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to 2023. For the year ended October 31, 2024, we saw revenue growth across all of our end markets led by strong revenue growth in the pharmaceutical, diagnostics and clinical and environmental and forensics markets when compared to 2023. Revenue generated by Agilent CrossLab increased 8 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. For the year ended October 31, 2023, we saw revenue growth across all of our end markets led by strong revenue growth in the pharmaceutical, academia and government, diagnostics and clinical and chemical and advanced materials markets when compared to 2022. Costs and Expenses Total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2024 increased 4 percentage points when compared to 2023. Total gross margin as well as gross margin on products for 2024 improved from the prior year as 2023 had asset impairment charges of $253 million primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business. In addition, total gross margin was favorably impacted by targeted price increases, lower shipping costs and intangible amortization expense partially offset by lower sales volume, higher share-based compensation expense, higher wages and restructuring charges. Total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased 4 percentage points when compared to 2022. Total gross margin as well as gross 43 margin on products for the year ended October 31, 2023 was significantly impacted by asset impairment charges of $253 million primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business. Excluding these asset impairment charges, total gross margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 was relatively flat when compared to 2022. Total gross margin was also impacted by targeted price increases, lower shipping and logistics costs, variable pay expenses and intangible amortization expense offset by the unfavorable impact of currency movements, higher wages, restructuring and other related costs and inventory charges. Gross inventory charges were $45 million in 2024, $40 million in 2023 and $24 million in 2022. Sales of previously written down inventory were $16 million in 2024, $9 million in 2023 and $11 million in 2022. Research and development expenses for the year ended October 31, 2024 were flat when compared to 2023. Research and development expenses slightly decreased due to lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities mostly offset by restructuring charges and an impairment of in-process research and development when compared to 2023. Research and development expenses for the year ended October 31, 2023 increased 3 percent when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages, program costs in our life sciences and applied markets and diagnostics and genomics businesses and restructuring and other related costs partially offset by the lower variable pay expenses and favorable impact of currency movements. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 4 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to lower intangible amortization expenses, transformational initiatives, advertising expenses, variable pay and salary expense related to workforce reduction activities partially offset by higher restructuring charges and share-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses were flat in 2023 compared to 2022. Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2022 included a decrease in expenses of $25 million related to the change in the fair value of contingent consideration.  Excluding this amount, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2 percent when compared to 2022. The decrease was due to lower variable pay, intangible amortization expense, sales commissions and the favorable impact of currency movements partially offset by higher wages, restructuring and other related costs and asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business. Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2024 increased 3 percentage points when compared to 2023.  Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2024 increased mostly due to lower impairment charges in 2024 compared to 2023 partially offset by restructuring charges. Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2023, decreased 4 percentage points when compared to 2022. Total operating margin for the year ended October 31, 2023 decreased mainly due to asset impairment charges primarily related to the exit of our Resolution Bioscience business and restructuring and other related costs. Interest income for the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $80 million, $51 million and $9 million, respectively. The increase in interest income in 2024 and 2023 was primarily due to higher cash balances and increases in interest rates related to our cash and cash equivalents. Interest expense for the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $96 million, $95 million and $84 million, respectively, and primarily relates to the interest charged on our senior notes, term loan, credit facilities, commercial paper and the amortization of the deferred loss recorded upon termination of the forward starting interest rate swap contracts partially offset by the amortization of deferred gains recorded upon termination of interest rate swap contracts. The increase in interest expense from 2022 is primarily related to higher interest rates on short-term commercial paper and the variable rate on the term loan facility. Our headcount was approximately 17,900 at October 31, 2024 and 18,100 at October 31, 2023. Other income (expense), net For the year ended October 31, 2024, other income (expense), net of $49 million income includes $8 million of income related to foreign currency translation reclassified out of accumulated comprehensive income (loss) and $12 million income related to the provision of site service costs to, and lease income from, Keysight Technologies, Inc. ("Keysight"). The costs associated with these services are reported within income from operations. Other income (expense), net also includes $25 million income related to the defined benefit retirement and post-retirement benefit plans (interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of net actuarial (gain) loss, prior service credits and settlement loss). 44 For the year ended October 31, 2023, other income (expense), net of $33 million income includes $43 million income related to the net gain on the divestiture of our Resolution Bioscience business and $12 million income related to the provision of site service costs to, and lease income from, Keysight. The costs associated with these services are reported within income from operations. Other income (expense), net also includes $10 million income related to the defined benefit retirement and post-retirement benefit plans (interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of net actuarial (gain) loss, prior service credits and settlement loss) partially offset by the net loss on the fair value of equity securities of approximately $41 million. For the year ended October 31, 2022, other income (expense), net of $39 million expense includes  the net loss on the fair value of equity securities of approximately $67 million and a $9 million loss on extinguishment of debt partially offset by income of $25 million income related to the defined benefit retirement and post-retirement benefit plans and $11 million related to the provision of site service costs to, and lease income from, Keysight. The costs associated with these services are reported within income from operations. Income Taxes For 2024, our income tax expense was $232 million with an effective tax rate of 15.3 percent. For the year ended October 31, 2024, our effective tax rate and the resulting provision for income taxes were impacted by the tax benefit of $47 million related to foreign-derived intangible income. For 2023, our income tax expense was $99 million with an effective tax rate of 7.4 percent. For the year ended October 31, 2023, our effective tax rate and the resulting provision for income taxes were impacted by the federal tax benefit of $104 million related to the realized loss on the divestiture of a business. The income taxes for the year ended October 31, 2023, also include the tax benefit of $41 million related to foreign-derived intangible income along with the tax benefit of $30 million related to the release of tax reserves in the U.S. due to the settlement of the audit with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for tax years 2018 and 2019. For 2022, our income tax expense was $250 million with an effective tax rate of 16.6 percent. For the year ended October 31, 2022, our effective tax rate and the resulting provision for income taxes were impacted by the tax benefit of $46 million related to foreign-derived intangible income. We have negotiated a tax holiday in Singapore. The tax holiday provides a lower rate of taxation on certain classes of income and requires various thresholds of investments and employment or specific types of income. The tax holiday in Singapore was renegotiated and extended through 2030. As a result of the incentive, the impact of the tax holiday decreased income taxes by $84 million, $54 million, and $53 million in 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. The benefit of the tax holiday on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.29, $0.18, and $0.18 in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. With these jurisdictions and the U.S., it is reasonably possible that some tax audits may be completed over the next twelve months. However, management is not able to provide a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of any other future tax payments or change in unrecognized tax benefits, if any. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes on the consolidated statements of operations. 45 Segment Overview In the first quarter of fiscal year 2024, we announced a change in our operating segments to move our cell analysis business from our life sciences and applied markets segment to our diagnostics and genomics operating segment in order to further strengthen growth opportunities for both organizations. Following this reorganization, we continued to have three business segments comprised of life sciences and applied markets, diagnostics and genomics and Agilent CrossLab, each of which continued to comprise a reportable segment. All historical financial segment information has been recast to conform to this new presentation in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. There was no change to our Agilent CrossLab business segment. Life Sciences and Applied Markets Our life sciences and applied markets business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, consumables and software that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products, as well as enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the molecular and cellular level. Key product categories include: liquid chromatography ("LC") systems and components; liquid chromatography mass spectrometry ("LCMS") systems; gas chromatography ("GC") systems and components; gas chromatography mass spectrometry ("GCMS") systems; inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ("ICP-MS") instruments; atomic absorption ("AA") instruments; microwave plasma-atomic emission spectrometry ("MP-AES") instruments; inductively coupled plasma optical emission spectrometry ("ICP-OES") instruments; raman spectroscopy; laboratory software for sample tracking; information management and analytics; laboratory automation and robotic systems; dissolution testing; vacuum pumps and measurement technologies. Our consumables portfolio is designed to improve customer outcomes. Most of the portfolio is vendor neutral, meaning Agilent can serve and supply customers regardless of their instrument purchase choices. Solutions range from chemistries to supplies. Key product categories in consumables include GC and LC columns, sample preparation products, custom chemistries, and a large selection of laboratory instrument supplies. Net Revenue Life sciences and applied markets business revenue in 2024 decreased 8 percent compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had no overall impact on revenue growth in 2024 when compared to the same period last year.  Geographically, revenue decreased 9 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, decreased 5 percent in Europe with a 1 percentage point favorable currency impact and decreased 10 percent in Asia Pacific with a 1 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The revenue decline in the Americas was driven by weakness in our liquid chromatography, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, gas chromatography mass spectrometry and gas chromatography businesses partially offset by strength in the consumables business when compared to 2023. The revenue decline in Europe was driven by weakness in our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, automation and gas chromatography mass spectrometry businesses partially offset by strength in the consumables business when compared to 2023. The revenue decline in Asia Pacific was driven by lower demand in China within our liquid chromatography, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, gas chromatography mass spectrometry and spectroscopy businesses when compared to 2023. All end market revenue declined in 2024. Revenue in the pharmaceutical market declined significantly due to weakness in our liquid chromatography, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and gas chromatography businesses when compared to 2023. Revenue in the chemicals and advanced materials market declined significantly due to weakness in our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry businesses partially offset by strength in our consumables business when compared to 2023. Revenue in the food market declined significantly due to weakness in our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography mass spectrometry and spectroscopy businesses partially offset by strength in our consumables business when compared to 2023. Revenue in the academia and government market declined significantly due to weakness in our liquid chromatography and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry businesses when compared to 2023. 46 Life sciences and applied markets business revenue in 2023 decreased 3 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements for 2023 had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points when compared to 2022.  Geographically, revenue decreased 1 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, increased 1 percent in Europe with a 1 percentage point unfavorable currency impact and decreased 7 percent in Asia Pacific with a 3 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The revenue decline in the Americas was driven by weakness in our liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography businesses partially offset by strength in the consumables business when compared to 2022. The revenue growth in Europe was driven by strength in our liquid chromatography business partially offset by weakness in the liquid chromatography mass spectrometry business when compared to 2022. The revenue decline in Asia Pacific was driven by China with weakness in our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry businesses partially offset by strength in the spectroscopy business when compared to 2022. End market revenue performance in 2023 was mixed as the pharmaceutical and diagnostics and clinical markets declined significantly, environmental and forensics market declined modestly, chemicals and advance materials and food markets remained relatively flat while the academia and government market delivered strong growth when compared to 2022. Revenue decline in the pharmaceutical market was driven by weakness in our liquid chromatography, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and gas chromatography businesses when compared to 2022. Revenue decline in the diagnostics and clinical market was driven by weakness in our liquid chromatography mass spectrometry business partially offset by strength in our consumables business when compared to 2022. Revenue decline in the environmental and forensics market was driven by weakness in our gas chromatography and spectroscopy businesses partially offset by strength in our liquid chromatography business when compared to 2022. Revenue growth in the academia and government end market was mainly driven by strength in the liquid chromatography, spectroscopy, gas chromatography and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry businesses when compared to 2022. Looking forward, we anticipate continued and steady market recovery and are optimistic about our long-term growth opportunities in the life sciences and applied markets as our broad portfolio of products and solutions are well suited to address customer needs. We will continue to invest in expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolio. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the life sciences and applied markets business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2024 versus 2023, and 2023 versus 2022. Gross margin decreased 1 percentage point in 2024 compared to 2023.  Gross margin was impacted by lower sales volume, unfavorable impact of currency movements and higher warranty costs which were partially offset by lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities and shipping costs when compared to 2023. Gross margin was flat in 2023 compared to 2022. Gross margin was impacted by lower revenue, the unfavorable impact of currency movements, higher wages and warranty costs which were fully offset by targeted price increases, lower variable pay, logistics and materials cost. Research and development expenses decreased 3 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Research and development expenses decreased due to lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities, lower consumables costs and depreciation expenses partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency movements when compared to 2023. Research and development expenses increased 2 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages and program investments in our software and informatics business partially offset by lower variable pay. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 2 percent in 2024 compared to 2023. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities, variable pay and 47 marketing costs when compared to 2023. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3 percent in 2023 compared to 2022. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to lower variable pay, sales commissions, and marketing expenses, and the favorable impact of currency movements when compared to 2022. Operating margin decreased 3 percentage points in 2024 compared to 2023. Operating margin was impacted by lower sales volume and the unfavorable impact of currency movements partially offset by lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities, and shipping costs when compared to 2023. Operating margin was flat in 2023 compared to 2022. Operating margin was impacted by lower sales volume and the unfavorable impact of currency movements offset by lower variable pay and logistics costs. Income from Operations Income from operations in 2024 decreased by $172 million or  16 percent when compared to 2023 on a revenue decrease of $295 million.  Income from operations in 2023 decreased by $48 million or 4 percent when compared to 2022 on a revenue decrease of $120 million. Diagnostics and Genomics Our diagnostics and genomics business includes the cell analysis, advanced manufacturing partnerships contract manufacturing and research and development, pathology, companion diagnostics, reagent partnership, genomics and biomolecular analysis businesses. Our diagnostics and genomics business is comprised of seven areas of activity providing active pharmaceutical ingredients ("APIs") for oligo-based therapeutics as well as solutions that include reagents, instruments, software and consumables, which enable customers in the clinical and life sciences research areas to interrogate samples at the cellular and molecular level. First, our cell analysis business includes instruments, reagents, software, and labware associated with unique live-cell analysis platforms in addition to mainstream flow cytometers, plate-readers, and plate washers/dispensers which are used across a broad range of applications. Second, our advanced manufacturing partnerships business is a contract and development manufacturing organization that provides services related to and the production of synthesized oligonucleotides under pharmaceutical good manufacturing practices ("GMP") conditions for use as API in a class of drugs that utilize nucleic acid molecules for disease therapy. Together, our BIOVECTRA and nucleic acid solutions businesses offer a broad range of contract and development manufacturing services to our customers. They provide clinical-to-commercial scale production capabilities focused mainly on mRNA manufacturing. Third, our pathology solutions business is focused on product offerings for cancer diagnostics and anatomic pathology workflows. The broad portfolio of offerings includes immunohistochemistry ("IHC"), in situ hybridization ("ISH"), hematoxylin and eosin ("H&E") staining and special staining. Fourth, we also collaborate with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential tissue pharmacodiagnostics, also known as companion diagnostics, which may be used to identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy. Fifth, the reagent partnership business provides clinical flow cytometry reagents for routine cancer diagnostics. This business also provides bulk antibodies as raw materials and associated assay development services to in vitro diagnostics ("IVD") manufacturers, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Sixth, our genomics business includes arrays and next generation sequencing ("NGS"). This business also includes solutions that enable clinical labs to identify DNA variants associated with genetic disease and help direct cancer therapy. Finally, our biomolecular analysis business provides complete workflow solutions, including instruments, consumables and software, for quality control analysis of nucleic acid samples. Samples are analyzed using quantitative and qualitative techniques to ensure accuracy in further genomics analysis techniques including NGS, utilized in clinical and life science research applications. Net Revenue Diagnostics and genomics business revenue decreased 6 percent in 2024 compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements for 2024 had no overall impact on revenue growth when compared to the same period last year. Geographically, revenue decreased 10 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, increased 4 percent in Europe with a 1 percentage point favorable currency impact and decreased 11 percent in Asia Pacific with a 2 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The 48 revenue decline in the Americas was primarily driven by our cell analysis, genomics and nucleic acid solutions businesses. Revenue increased in Europe due to strong performance in our pathology, genomics and biomolecular analysis businesses partially offset by a decline in our cell analysis business. The revenue decline in Asia Pacific was driven by our cell analysis business partially offset by increased revenue in our pathology business. In 2024, revenue performance in the pharmaceutical market declined significantly due to our cell analysis business which was impacted by the continuing slow availability of the customer capital budgets and by unfavorable mix in our nucleic acid solutions business when compared to the same period last year.  We also saw a modest revenue increase in the diagnostics and clinical markets primarily from our  pathology business which was partially offset by a decline in our genomics business. Revenue in the academia and government markets declined due to our cell analysis business. Diagnostics and genomics business revenue in 2023 decreased 1 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Geographically, revenue decreased 1 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, increased 3 percent in Europe with a 1 percentage point unfavorable currency impact and decreased 6 percent in Asia Pacific with a 5 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. The decrease in the Americas was driven by a decline in our genomics and cell analysis businesses which was partially offset by strong growth in our nucleic acid solutions, reagent partnership and pathology businesses. The increase in Europe was driven by growth in our pathology, reagent partnership and cell analysis businesses. The revenue decline in Asia Pacific was driven by our biomolecular analysis and genomics businesses and an overall weakness in China. In 2023, the decline in revenue in the pharmaceutical market was led by our cell analysis, biomolecular analysis and genomics businesses which was partially offset by strong revenue growth in our nucleic acid solutions business. We saw moderate revenue growth in the diagnostics and clinical markets led by our pathology, reagent partnership and cell analysis businesses when compared to 2022. Revenue in the academia and government markets declined due to softness in our cell analysis and genomics businesses. Looking forward, despite the challenging market conditions, we are optimistic about our long-term growth opportunities in our end markets and continue to invest in expanding and improving our applications and solutions portfolio. We remain positive about our growth in our end markets as our product portfolio around OMNIS and PD-L1 assays continues to gain strength with our customers in clinical oncology applications, and our next generation sequencing related solutions continue to be adopted. Market demand in the advanced manufacturing partnerships business related to therapeutic oligo programs continues, and we are well positioned to serve more of the market demand. We will also continue to invest in research and development and seek to expand our position in developing countries and emerging markets. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the diagnostics and genomics business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2024 versus 2023, and 2023 versus 2022. Gross margin decreased 1 percentage point in 2024 when compared to 2023.  Gross margin was impacted by lower sales volume and higher infrastructure costs which were partially offset by lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities and expenses attributed to business exit activities. Gross margin decreased 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Gross margin decreased due to volume decline in our cell analysis and genomics businesses resulting in unfavorable business mix. Gross margin was also impacted by the unfavorable impact of currency movements, higher wages and infrastructure costs partially offset by lower variable pay. 49 Research and development expenses decreased 9 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Research and development expenses decreased primarily due to lower expenses attributed to business exit activities and salary expenses related to workforce reduction activities. Research and development expenses increased 2 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages, additional expenses related to a recent acquisition and higher infrastructure costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to lower expenses attributed to business exit activities and lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities partially offset by higher infrastructure costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased due to lower variable pay, the favorable impact of currency movements and lower infrastructure costs. Operating margin decreased 1 percentage point in 2024 when compared to 2023. Operating margin decreased due to lower revenue, higher infrastructure costs and higher wages partially offset by lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities and expenses attributed to business exit activities. Operating margin decreased 1 percentage point in 2023 when compared to 2022. The decrease in operating margin resulted from lower gross margins, the unfavorable impact of currency movements and additional costs related to a recent acquisition partially offset by lower variable pay. Income from Operations Income from operations in 2024 decreased by $43 million or  12 percent when compared to 2023 on a revenue decrease of $104 million. Income from operations in 2023 decreased by $27 million or 7 percent when compared to 2022 on a revenue decrease of $11 million. Agilent CrossLab The Agilent CrossLab business spans the entire lab with its extensive services portfolio, which is designed to improve customer outcomes and represents a broad range of offerings designed to serve customer needs across end-markets and regardless of instrument manufacturer. The services portfolio includes repairs, parts, maintenance, installations, training, compliance support, software as a service, asset management, consulting and various other custom services to support the customers' laboratory operations.  Custom services are tailored to meet the specific application needs of various industries and to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Net Revenue Agilent CrossLab business revenue increased 5 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023.  Foreign currency movements for 2024 had no overall impact on revenue growth when compared to 2023. Geographically, revenue increased 6 percent in the Americas with no currency impact, increased 8 percent in Europe with a 2 percentage point favorable currency impact and was flat in Asia Pacific with a 2 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. During the year ended October 31, 2024 , revenue in all three regions reflected consistent high demand for repair and maintenance services across the entire portfolio. In Americas and Europe, revenue growth was partially offset by weakness in installation revenue. In the Asia Pacific region the weakness in installation revenue offset the revenue growth seen from repair and maintenance services. Agilent CrossLab business revenue increased 8 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an overall unfavorable impact on revenue growth of 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Geographically, revenue increased 12 percent in the Americas with a 1 percentage point favorable currency impact, increased 10 percent in Europe with no currency impact and increased 3 percent in Asia Pacific with a 5 percentage point unfavorable currency impact. During the year ended October 31, 2023, revenue growth in all three regions was driven by contract repair services, per-incident repair services and consultative services, with installation related service in China partially offsetting the overall growth in Asia Pacific. 50 In 2024, we saw strong revenue growth in the environmental and forensics, diagnostics and clinical and pharmaceutical markets, mainly driven by our spectroscopy, gas chromatography and liquid chromatography businesses, when compared to the same period last year. In 2023, we saw strong revenue growth in the  pharmaceutical, academia and government, diagnostics and clinical and chemical and advanced materials markets, mainly driven by our spectroscopy, liquid and gas chromatography mass spectrometry and liquid chromatography businesses when compared to the same period the previous year. Looking forward, Agilent CrossLab services are well positioned to continue their success in our key end markets by supporting a growing installed base of instruments. Digital and remote capabilities will continue to be a key factor in improving the service quality and the customers' experience. Geographically, the business is well diversified across all regions to take advantage of local market opportunities and to hedge against weakness in any one region. Gross Margin and Operating Margin The following table shows the Agilent CrossLab business' margins, expenses and income from operations for 2024 versus 2023 and 2023 versus 2022. Gross margin increased 2 percentage points in 2024 when compared to 2023. Gross margin was impacted by targeted price increases and well-controlled variable service delivery costs, offset by higher wages. Gross margin increased 2 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022.  Gross margin was impacted by higher sales volume, targeted price increases and lower variable pay that improved margins, which were partially offset by higher wages, service delivery costs for logistics and parts and the unfavorable impact of currency movements. Research and development expenses decreased 1 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Research and development expenses decreased due to lower salary expense related to workforce reduction activities. Research and development expenses increased 2 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. Research and development expenses increased due to higher wages, partially offset by lower variable pay and the favorable impact of currency movements. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2 percent in 2024 when compared to 2023. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to higher commissions partially offset by lower travel expenses and other discretionary spending and salary expense related to workforce reduction activities. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 4 percent in 2023 when compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to lower variable pay and a favorable impact of currency movements partially offset by higher wages. Operating margin increased 2 percentage points in 2024 when compared to 2023. Operating margin i ncreased mostly driven by targeted price increases, lower service delivery costs and salary expense related to workforce reduction activities. Operating margin increased 4 percentage points in 2023 when compared to 2022. Operating margin increased mostly due to higher sales volume, targeted price increases and lower variable pay that improved margins in addition to a reduction in expenses. Income from Operations Income from operations in 2024 increased by $61 million or  13 percent when compared to 2023 on a revenue increase of $76 million.  Income from operations in 2023 increased by $93 million or 25 percent when compared to 2022 on a revenue increase of $116 million. 51 Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy, for at least the next twelve months and beyond, our liquidity requirements, both globally and domestically, including the following: working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, stock repurchases, cash dividends, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. Our financial position as of October 31, 2024 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $1,329 million as compared to $1,590 million as of October 31, 2023. We may, from time to time, retire certain outstanding debt of ours through open market cash purchases, privately-negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such transactions, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,751 million in 2024 compared to net cash provided of $1,772 million in 2023 and net cash provided of $1,312 million in 2022. Net cash paid for income taxes was approximately $314 million in 2024 compared to income taxes paid of $199 million in 2023 and $279 million, in 2022. For the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, other assets and liabilities used cash of $49 million, provided cash of $47 million and used cash of $8 million, respectively. In 2024, accounts receivable provided cash of $7 million, compared to cash provided of $132 million in 2023, and cash  used of $321 million in 2022. Days' sales outstanding as of October 31, were 70 days in 2024, 69 days in 2023 and 68 days in 2022. In 2024, the decrease in cash provided by accounts receivable was primarily due to lower collectible sales compared to 2023. In 2023 cash provided in accounts receivable was driven by stronger collections compared to 2022. The change in accounts payable provided cash of $103 million in 2024, used cash of $171 million in 2023 and provided cash of $121 million in 2022. In 2024 the change was mainly due to less expenditures for direct materials as we continued optimizing our inventory levels and to timing of payments. Cash provided by inventory was $34 million in 2024 compared to cash used of $33 million in 2023 and cash used of $248 million in 2022. Inventory days on-hand decreased to 111 days in 2024 compared to 120 days in 2023 and 112 days in 2022. The employee compensation and benefits liability used cash of $12 million in 2024 compared to cash used of $91 million in 2023 and cash used of $22 million in 2022. In 2024, the change was largely due to a decrease in variable and incentive pay compared to 2023. In 2023, the change was largely due to a lower accrual for variable pay compared to 2022. We paid approximately $105 million in 2024 under our variable and incentive pay programs compared to $185 million in 2023 and $201 million in 2022. We made no contributions to our U.S defined benefit plans in 2024, 2023 and 2022. We contributed $20 million in 2024 and $21 million in 2023 and $17 million in 2022 to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans, respectively. We did not contribute to our U.S. post-retirement benefit plans in 2024, 2023 and 2022. Our non-U.S. defined benefit plans are generally funded ratably throughout the year. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. We do not expect to contribute to our U.S. plans and U.S. post-retirement benefit plans during 2025. We expect to contribute $19 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during 2025. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1,258 million in 2024 compared to net cash used of $310 million in 2023 and net cash used of $338 million in 2022. Investments in property, plant and equipment were $378 million in 2024, $298 million in 2023 and $291 million in 2022. Our anticipated capital expenditures for fiscal year 2025 will be approximately $450 million. These continued investments in property plant and equipment are primarily due to the planned expansion of our manufacturing capacity for production of nucleic acid based therapeutics in Frederick, Colorado. Some of our investment may be eligible to qualify for reimbursement incentives, which will not fully be known until the expansion is substantially complete. 52 In 2024, we invested $862 million primarily for our acquisition of BIOVECTRA and one other acquisition compared to $51 million for two acquisitions in 2023 and $52 million for our acquisition of Polymer Standards Service and advanced artificial intelligence technology in 2022. In 2023, proceeds from the divestiture of our Resolution Bioscience business were $50 million. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $752 million in 2024 compared to net cash used of $930 million in 2023 and net cash used of $1,372 million in 2022. Net cash from financing activities consisted primarily of cash flows associated with the issuances and repurchases of common stock, payments of cash dividends, borrowings and repayments under credit facilities and commercial paper, issuances and repayments of long term debt and payments of contingent consideration. Treasury Stock Repurchases. In 2024, we repurchased and retired 8.4 million shares for $1,150 million, excluding excise tax liability of approximately $10 million compared to repurchases in 2023 of 4.6 million shares for $575 million, excluding excise tax liability of approximately $3 million which was paid in 2024 and 8.4 million shares for $1,139 million, in 2022. The activity of our repurchases and remaining authorization by repurchase program follows: The 2024 repurchase program authorizes the purchase of up to $2.0 billion, excluding excise taxes, of our common stock at the company's discretion and has no fixed termination date. The 2024 repurchase program does not require the company to acquire a specific number of shares and may be suspended, amended or discontinued at any time. The 2024 repurchase program became effective on August 1, 2024 and will commence upon the termination of our 2023 repurchase program. Dividends. For the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, cash dividends of $274 million, $265 million and $250 million were paid on the company's outstanding common stock, respectively. On November 20, 2024, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.248 per share of common stock, or approximately $71 million which will be paid on January 22, 2025 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 31, 2024. The timing and amounts of any future dividends are subject to determination and approval by our board of directors. Short-term Debt Credit Facilities. On June 7, 2023, we entered into a new credit agreement with a group of financial institutions which provides for a $1.5 billion five-year unsecured credit facility that will expire on June 7, 2028, and an incremental revolving credit facility in an aggregate amount of up to $750 million. During 2024, we made no borrowings or repayments under these credit facilities compared to $360 million borrowed and repaid in 2023 and no borrowings or repayments in 2022. On June 2, 2023, we entered into an Uncommitted Money Market Line Credit agreement with Societe Generale which provides for an aggregate borrowing capacity of $300 million. The credit facility is an uncommitted short-term cash advance facility where each request must be at least $1 million. The interest rate is set by the lender at the time of the borrowing and is fixed for the duration of the advance. During 2024, we borrowed and repaid $215 million under this credit facility compared to $61 million borrowed and repaid in 2023. As of October 31, 2024, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility. We were in compliance with the covenants for the credit facilities during the year ended October 31, 2024. 53 Commercial Paper. Under our U.S. commercial paper program, we may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $1.5 billion with up to 397-day maturities. At any point in time, the company intends to maintain available commitments under its revolving credit facility in an amount at least equal to the amount of the commercial paper notes outstanding. Amounts available under the program may be borrowed, repaid and re-borrowed from time to time. The proceeds from issuances under the program may be used for general corporate purposes. During 2024, we borrowed $1.19 billion and repaid $1.15 billion compared to $1.67 billion borrowed and $1.70 billion repaid in 2023, and $1.29 billion borrowed and $1.26 billion repaid in 2022. As of October 31, 2024, we had $40 million borrowings outstanding under our U.S. commercial paper program and had a weighted average annual interest rate of 4.92 percent. Other Loans . In September 2024, we completed the BIOVECTRA acquisition and assumed two interest-free loans from the Strategic Innovation Fund ("SIF") in the amount of $20 million with $2 million recorded at fair value in short-term debt. The loans are repayable in quarterly and yearly installments at a weighted average imputed interest rate of 4.7 percent. In addition, we assumed two interest-free loans with the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency (“ACOA”) in the amount of $4 million with $3 million recorded at fair value in short-term debt. The loans are repayable in monthly installments at a weighted average imputed interest rate of 4.5 percent. Long-term Debt In 2024, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $1,197 million related to the issuance of our 2027 and 2034 senior notes.  Repayments of long-term debt of $600 million related to the full payment of the outstanding principal amount of our term loan. In 2022, we used the proceeds of $600 million from the term loan facility and repaid the $600 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 3.875% 2023 senior notes. The total redemption price of approximately $609 million was computed in accordance with the terms of the 2023 senior notes as the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and unpaid interest on the notes being redeemed.  In addition, $7 million of accrued interest, up to but not including the applicable redemption date, was paid. Term Loan Facility. On April 15, 2022, we entered into a term loan agreement with a group of financial institutions, which provided for a $600 million delayed draw term loan that will mature on April 15, 2025. Loans under the term loan agreement bear interest, at our option, either at: (i) the alternate base rate, as defined in the term loan agreement, plus the applicable margin for such loans or (ii) adjusted term SOFR, as defined in the term loan agreement, plus the applicable margin for such loans. As of October 31, 2024, the term loan facility was terminated. Other Loans. In September 2024, we completed the BIOVECTRA acquisition and assumed two interest-free loans from the Strategic Innovation Fund ("SIF") in the amount of $20 million with $18 million recorded at fair value in long-term debt. The loans are repayable in quarterly and yearly installments through 2040 at a weighted average imputed interest rate of 4.7 percent. In addition, we assumed two interest-free loans with the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency (“ACOA”) in the amount of $4 million with $1 million recorded at fair value in long-term debt. The loans are repayable in monthly installments through 2029 at a weighted average imputed interest rate of 4.5 percent. Senior Notes . All outstanding senior notes listed below are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness. Contingent Consideration Payment. During the year ended October 31, 2023, we paid a total of $72 million in contingent consideration payments, of which $4 million is included as an outflow in cash from operations. We paid $65 million related to the achievement of a certain technical milestone associated with our acquisition of Resolution Bioscience and $7 million related to other acquisitions. 54 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization. Contractual Commitments Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors. The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October 31, 2024, for Agilent operations and excludes amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheet (in millions): Commitments to Contract Manufacturers and Suppliers. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. The above amounts represent the commitments under the open purchase orders with our suppliers that have not yet been received. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually provide us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. We expect to fulfill most of our purchase commitments for inventory within one year. Other Purchase Commitments. We have categorized "other purchase commitments" related to contracts with professional services suppliers. Typically, we can cancel contracts with professional services suppliers without penalties. For those contracts that are not cancelable without penalties, there are termination fees and costs or commitments for continued spending that we are obligated to pay to a supplier under each contact's termination period before such contract can be cancelled. Our contractual obligations with these suppliers under "other purchase commitments" were approximately $136 million. We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of October 31, 2024, or October 31, 2023. On Balance Sheet Arrangements The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations on our October 31, 2024 balance sheet (in millions): Other long-term liabilities as of October 31, 2024 and October 31, 2023 include $115 million and $162 million, respectively, related to long-term income tax liabilities. Of these amounts, $64 million and $68 million related to uncertain tax positions as of October 31, 2024 and October 31, 2023, respectively. We are unable to accurately predict when these amounts 55 will be realized or released. However, it is reasonably possible that there could be significant changes to our unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months due to either the expiration of a statute of limitations or a tax audit settlement. As of October 31, 2024, the remaining $51 million included in other long-term liabilities relates to the U.S. transition tax payment which is due within the next two years.