********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be considered before deciding to invest in any of Abbott’s securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Abbott, or risks Abbott currently considers immaterial, could also affect Abbott’s actual results. Abbott’s business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Business and Operational Risks Abbott may acquire other businesses, license rights to technologies or products, form alliances, or dispose of or spin-off businesses, which could cause it to incur significant expenses and could negatively affect profitability. Abbott may pursue acquisitions, licensing arrangements, and strategic alliances, or dispose of or spin-off some of its businesses, as part of its business strategy. Abbott may not complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits. If Abbott is successful in making an acquisition, the products and technologies that are acquired may not be successful or may require significantly greater resources and investments than originally anticipated. Abbott may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into its existing business or transition disposed businesses efficiently, and could incur or assume significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities. Abbott could also experience negative effects on its reported results of operations from acquisition or disposition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects could cause a deterioration of Abbott’s credit rating, result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense, and decrease liquidity. Abbott depends on sophisticated information technology systems and maintains protected personal data, and a cyber attack or other breach affecting these information technology systems or protected data could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s results of operations. Similar to other large multi-national companies, the size and complexity of the information technology systems on which Abbott relies for both its infrastructure and products makes them susceptible to a cyber attack, malicious intrusion, breakdown, destruction, loss of data privacy, or other significant disruption. These systems have been and are expected to continue to be the target of malware and other cyber attacks. In addition, third party hacking attempts may cause Abbott’s information technology systems and related products, protected data, or proprietary information to be compromised or stolen. A significant attack or other disruption could result in adverse consequences, including increased costs and expenses, manufacturing challenges or disruption, problems with product functionality, damage to customer relations, lost revenue, and legal or regulatory penalties. Abbott also collects, manages and processes protected personal data, including protected health information, in connection with certain medical products and service offerings. Abbott is subject to certain regional and local data protection laws that prohibit or restrict the transfer of protected data across country borders. For additional information concerning data privacy and security regulation, see the discussion in “Regulation” under Item 1, “Business.” A breach of protected personal information could result in adverse consequences, including regulatory inquiries or litigation, increased costs and expenses, reputational damage, lost revenue, and fines or penalties. Abbott invests in its systems and technology and in the protection of its products and data to reduce the risk of an attack or other significant disruption, and monitors its systems on an ongoing basis for any current or potential threats and for changes in technology and the regulatory environment. There can be no assurance that these measures and efforts will prevent future attacks or other significant disruptions to any of the systems on which Abbott relies or that related product issues will not arise in the future. Similarly, there can be no assurance that third party information technology providers with whom Abbott contracts will not suffer a significant attack or disruption that impacts customers like Abbott. Any significant breach, attack or other disruption involving Abbott’s systems or products could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s business. 9 Abbott’s research and development efforts may not succeed in developing commercially successful products and technologies, which may cause Abbott’s revenue and profitability to decline. To remain competitive, Abbott must continue to launch new products and technologies. To accomplish this, Abbott commits substantial efforts, funds, and other resources to research and development. A risk of failure is inherent in the research and development of new products and technologies. Abbott must make ongoing substantial expenditures without any assurance that its efforts will be commercially successful. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including after significant funds have been invested. Promising new products and technologies may fail to reach the market or may only have limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, excessive costs to manufacture, failure to establish or maintain intellectual property rights, or infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Even if Abbott successfully develops new products or enhancements or new generations of Abbott’s existing products, they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences, changing industry or regulatory standards, or competitors’ innovations. Innovations may not be accepted quickly in the marketplace because of, among other things, entrenched patterns of clinical practice or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Abbott cannot state with certainty when or whether any of its products under development will be launched, whether it will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire compounds or products, or whether any products will be commercially successful. Failure to launch successful new products or technologies, or new indications or uses for existing products, may cause Abbott’s products or technologies to become obsolete, causing Abbott’s revenues and operating results to suffer. The manufacture of many of Abbott’s products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if Abbott or one of its suppliers encounters problems manufacturing products, Abbott’s business could suffer. The manufacture of many of Abbott’s products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. Problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, and environmental factors. In addition, single suppliers are currently used for certain products and materials. If problems arise during the production of a lot or batch of product, those products may have to be discarded. If problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. Any of these events could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other lots, batches or products. To the extent Abbott or one of its suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, this could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues and profitability. Abbott has significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business, including decreasing its business flexibility. As of December 31, 2020, Abbott's consolidated indebtedness was approximately $18.7 billion. This consolidated indebtedness could have the effect, among other things, of reducing Abbott's flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, and reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Further, Abbott may be required to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, future acquisitions or other general corporate purposes. Abbott's ability to arrange additional financing or refinancing will depend on, among other factors, Abbott's financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond Abbott's control. Consequently, Abbott cannot assure that it will be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to Abbott or at all, which could adversely impact Abbott's ability to make scheduled payments with respect to its consolidated indebtedness and its profitability and financial condition. Additionally, further borrowing could cause a deterioration of Abbott's credit ratings. Abbott's credit ratings reflect each credit rating agency's then opinion of Abbott's financial strength, operating performance, and ability to meet its debt obligations. Adverse changes in Abbott's credit ratings may result in increased borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term borrowing facilities and may limit financing options, including access to the unsecured borrowing market. Abbott may also be subject to additional restrictive covenants that would reduce flexibility. 10 Legal and Regulatory Risks Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. Abbott’s products are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous international, supranational, federal, and state authorities. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a drug, medical device, or diagnostic product can be costly and time-consuming, and approvals might not be granted for future products, or additional indications or uses of existing products, on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in the receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products, or new indications and uses, could result in delayed realization of product revenues, reduction in revenues, and substantial additional costs. In addition, no assurance can be given that Abbott will remain in compliance with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once approval or marketing authorization has been obtained for a product. These requirements include, among other things, regulations regarding manufacturing practices, product labeling, and advertising and postmarketing reporting, including adverse event reports and field alerts. Many of Abbott’s facilities and procedures and those of Abbott’s suppliers are subject to ongoing regulation, including periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Abbott must incur expense and spend time and effort to ensure compliance with these complex regulations. Possible regulatory actions for non-compliance could include warning letters, fines, damages, injunctions, civil penalties, recalls, seizures of Abbott’s products, and criminal prosecution. These actions could result in, among other things, substantial modifications to Abbott’s business practices and operations; refunds, recalls, or seizures of Abbott’s products; a total or partial shutdown of production in one or more facilities while Abbott or Abbott’s suppliers remedy the alleged violation; the inability to obtain future pre-market approvals or marketing authorizations; and withdrawals or suspensions of current products from the market. Any of these events could disrupt Abbott’s business and have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues, profitability and financial condition. Laws and regulations affecting government benefit programs could impose new obligations on Abbott, require Abbott to change its business practices, and restrict its operations in the future. Abbott’s industry is subject to various international, supranational, federal, and state laws and regulations pertaining to government benefit program reimbursement, price reporting and regulation, and health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback and false claims laws, and international and individual state laws relating to pricing and sales and marketing practices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, in some instances, substantial fines, imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in government health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Administration health programs in the U.S. These laws and regulations are broad in scope and they are subject to evolving interpretations, which could require Abbott to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of its sales or marketing practices. In addition, violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt Abbott’s business and result in a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues, profitability, and financial condition. Changes in the health care regulatory environment may adversely affect Abbott’s business. Both in the U.S. and internationally, government authorities may enact changes in regulatory requirements, make legislative or administrative reforms to existing reimbursement programs, make adverse decisions relating to Abbott’s products’ coverage or reimbursement, or make changes to patient access to health care, all of which could adversely impact the demand for and usage of Abbott’s products or the prices that Abbott’s customers are willing to pay for them. Further, in the U.S., a number of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 address access to health care products and services. These provisions may be modified, expanded, repealed, or otherwise invalidated, in whole or in part. Future rulemaking could affect rebates, prices or the rate of price increases for health care products and services, or required reporting and disclosure. Abbott cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking or changes in the law. For additional information concerning health care regulation, see the discussion in “Regulation” under Item 1, “Business.” 11 The expiration or loss of patent protection and licenses may affect Abbott’s future revenues and operating income. Many of Abbott’s businesses rely on patent and trademark and other intellectual property protection. Although most of the challenges to Abbott’s intellectual property have come from other companies, governments may also challenge intellectual property protections. To the extent Abbott’s intellectual property is successfully challenged, invalidated, or circumvented or to the extent it does not allow Abbott to compete effectively, Abbott’s businesses could suffer. To the extent that countries do not enforce Abbott’s intellectual property rights, Abbott’s future revenues and operating income could be reduced. Any material litigation regarding Abbott’s patents and trademarks is described in the section captioned “Legal Proceedings.” Significant safety concerns could arise for Abbott’s products, which could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues and financial condition. Health care products typically receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. Following regulatory approval, these products will be used over longer periods of time in many patients. Investigators may also conduct additional, and perhaps more extensive, studies. If new safety issues are reported, Abbott may be required to amend the conditions of use for a product. For example, Abbott may be required to provide additional warnings on a product’s label or narrow its approved intended use, either of which could reduce the product’s market acceptance. If serious safety issues arise with an Abbott product, sales of the product could be halted by Abbott or by regulatory authorities. Safety issues affecting suppliers’ or competitors’ products also may reduce the market acceptance of Abbott’s products. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, Abbott is the subject of product liability claims and lawsuits alleging that its products or the products of other companies that Abbott promotes have resulted or could result in an unsafe condition for, or injury to, patients. Product liability claims and lawsuits, safety alerts or product recalls, and other allegations of product safety or quality issues, regardless of their validity or ultimate outcome, may have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s business and reputation and on Abbott’s ability to attract and retain customers. Consequences may also include additional costs, a decrease in market share for the products, lower income or exposure to other claims. Product liability losses are self-insured. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s profitability and financial condition. Economic and Industry Risks Abbott is subject to risks related to public health crises, such as widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases like the COVID-19 pandemic. As a global healthcare company, public health crises, such as the widespread outbreaks of infectious diseases like the COVID-19 pandemic, may negatively impact Abbott's operations. Health concerns and significant changes in political or economic conditions caused by such outbreaks can cause significant reductions in demand for routine diagnostic testing and medical device procedures or increased difficulty in serving customers, disrupt manufacturing and supply chains, and negatively affect our operations as well as the operations of our suppliers, distributors and other third-party partners. Furthermore, such widespread outbreaks may impact the broader economies of affected countries, including negatively impacting economic growth, the proper functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. With regard to the COVID-19 pandemic, the FDA issued Emergency Use Authorizations (EUAs) for several COVID-19 related products in 2020, including Abbott diagnostic tests. EUAs are authorized for the duration of the COVID-19 public health emergency unless sooner terminated or revoked. Abbott is actively pursuing the FDA’s customary regulatory approval process for these diagnostic tests which has uncertainty as discussed in “ Abbott is subject to numerous governmental regulations and it can be costly to comply with these regulations and to develop compliant products and processes. ” in “Legal and Regulatory Risks” under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Due to the unpredictability of the duration and impact of the current COVID-19 pandemic, the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will have a material effect on Abbott’s business, financial condition or results of operations is uncertain. A more detailed discussion on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Abbott’s business is contained in the “Financial Review” section in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report. 12 Abbott is subject to cost containment efforts that could cause a reduction in future revenues and operating income. In the United States and other countries, Abbott’s businesses have experienced downward pressure on product pricing. Cost containment efforts by governments and private organizations are described in greater detail in the section captioned “Regulation.” To the extent these cost containment efforts are not offset by greater patient access to health care or other factors, Abbott’s future revenues and operating income will be reduced. Competitors’ intellectual property may prevent Abbott from selling its products or have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s future profitability and financial condition. Competitors may claim that an Abbott product infringes their intellectual property. Resolving an intellectual property infringement claim can be costly and time consuming and may require Abbott to enter into license agreements. Abbott cannot guarantee that it would be able to obtain license agreements on commercially reasonable terms. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement could subject Abbott to significant damages or an injunction preventing the manufacture, sale or use of affected Abbott products. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s profitability and financial condition. New products and technological advances by Abbott’s competitors may negatively affect Abbott’s results of operations. Abbott’s products face intense competition from competitive products. Competitors’ products may be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or superior performance features than Abbott’s products.  Abbott cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of the introduction of competitors’ products. Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements and Abbott’s ability to realize projected sales and earnings. Although Abbott’s financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, a significant portion of Abbott’s revenues and costs are realized in other currencies. Sales outside of the United States in 2020 made up approximately 62 percent of Abbott’s net sales. Abbott’s profitability is affected by movement of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies may also affect the reported value of Abbott’s assets and liabilities, as well as its cash flows. Some foreign currencies are subject to government exchange controls. While Abbott enters into hedging arrangements to mitigate some of its foreign currency exposure, Abbott cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or its ability to mitigate these risks. Information on the impact of foreign exchange rates on Abbott’s financial results is contained in the “Financial Review — Results of Operations” section in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report. A discussion of the steps taken to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange is contained in Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in Abbott’s 2020 Form 10-K. Information on Abbott’s hedging arrangements is contained in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in this report. Deterioration in the economic condition and credit quality of certain countries may negatively affect Abbott’s results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions in certain countries may increase the time it takes to collect outstanding trade receivables. Financial instability and fiscal deficits in these countries may result in additional austerity measures to reduce costs, including health care. Deterioration in the quality of sovereign debt, including credit downgrades, could increase Abbott’s collection risk where a significant amount of Abbott’s receivables in these countries are with governmental health care systems or where Abbott’s customers depend on payment by government health care systems. The international nature of Abbott’s business subjects it to additional business risks that may cause its revenue and profitability to decline. Abbott’s business is subject to risks associated with managing a global supply chain and doing business internationally. Sales outside of the United States in 2020 made up approximately 62 percent of Abbott’s net sales. Additional risks associated with Abbott’s international operations include: 13 Events contemplated by these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s revenues and profitability. Other factors can have a material adverse effect on Abbott’s future profitability and financial condition. Many other factors can affect Abbott’s profitability and its financial condition, including: 14 CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates, and projections. Words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “forecasts,” variations of these words, and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Certain factors, including but not limited to those identified under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K, may cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations, estimates, projections, forecasts, and from past results. No assurance can be made that any expectation, estimate, or projection contained in a forward-looking statement will be achieved or will not be affected by the factors cited above or other unknown or future events. Abbott undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as the result of subsequent events or developments, except as required by law. ​

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Financial Review Abbott’s revenues are derived primarily from the sale of a broad line of health care products under short-term receivable arrangements.  Patent protection and licenses, technological and performance features, and inclusion of Abbott’s products under a contract most impact which products are sold; price controls, competition and rebates most impact the net selling prices of products; and foreign currency translation impacts the measurement of net sales and costs.  Abbott’s primary products are medical devices, diagnostic testing products, nutritional products and branded generic pharmaceuticals.  Sales in international markets comprise approximately 62 percent of consolidated net sales. In 2020, the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic affected Abbott’s diversified health care businesses in various ways.  As is further described below, some businesses have performed at the levels required to successfully meet new demands, others have faced challenges, and still others have been relatively less impacted by the pandemic. Abbott’s Diagnostics business experienced the most significant change in sales from 2019 to 2020 as sales from new tests and other related products to detect COVID-19 more than outweighed the negative impact of COVID-19 on routine diagnostic testing volumes.  Abbott mobilized its teams across multiple fronts to develop and launch the following new diagnostic tests for COVID-19 in 2020: 21 In 2020, Abbott’s COVID-19 testing related sales totaled approximately $3.884 billion, led by sales related to Abbott’s BinaxNOW, Panbio and ID NOW rapid testing platforms. In addition to negatively impacting routine core diagnostic testing volumes, the pandemic negatively affected the number of cardiovascular and neuromodulation procedures performed by health care providers globally, thereby reducing the demand for Abbott’s cardiovascular and neuromodulation devices and routine diagnostic tests in 2020.  The decrease began in February in China as that country implemented quarantine restrictions and postponed non-emergency health care activities.  The negative impact on cardiovascular and neuromodulation procedures and routine diagnostic tests expanded to other countries and geographic regions as COVID-19 spread geographically in the first half of 2020 and health care systems in these countries shifted their focus to fighting COVID-19. The extent of the impact and the timing of a recovery in the number of procedures and routine testing in a particular country or geographic region depended upon the progression of COVID-19 cases in the country or region.  The recovery in procedures and routine testing volumes in China began in March.  In other parts of the world, such as the U.S. and Europe, volumes improved across Abbott’s hospital-based businesses as the second quarter progressed and the improvement continued in the third quarter.  However, in the fourth quarter, the improving trends in the demand for procedures and routine testing flattened or were negatively impacted depending upon the business and the region as many countries experienced an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations. Abbott’s branded generic pharmaceuticals business was also negatively affected by the pandemic in 2020 as COVID-19 spread across emerging market countries in the second and third quarters of 2020.  Abbott’s nutritional and diabetes care businesses were the least affected by the pandemic as is further discussed below. Abbott is continually implementing business continuity plans in the face of the pandemic.  Due to the critical nature of its products and services, Abbott was generally exempt from governmental orders issued during the first quarter of 2020 in the U.S. and other countries requiring businesses to cease operations. The majority of its office-based work was conducted remotely during the period of such governmental orders and the company implemented strict travel restrictions.  As some governmental orders were lifted in May and June 2020, Abbott entered a new phase in its operations whereby some office-based employees started working at Abbott’s offices on a rotational basis.  As various governmental orders and guidelines were modified in the fourth quarter to put in place new restrictions, Abbott continued to ensure that its guidance was aligned with such restrictions.  Abbott has taken aggressive steps to limit exposure and enhance the safety of facilities for its employees. Due to the unpredictability of the duration and impact of the current COVID-19 pandemic, the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will have a material effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations is uncertain. While Abbott’s 2020 sales were most significantly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, the increase in total sales over the last three years also reflects volume growth due to the introduction of new products across various businesses as well as higher sales of various existing products.  Sales in emerging markets, which represent approximately 37 percent of total company sales, increased 2.0 percent in 2020 and 8.2 percent in 2019, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. (Emerging markets include all countries except the United States, Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.) Over the last three years, Abbott’s operating margin as a percentage of sales increased from 11.9 percent in 2018 to 14.2 percent in 2019 and 15.5 percent in 2020.  The increase in 2020 reflects the sales volume increases in the rapid and molecular diagnostics businesses, partially offset by lower Medical Devices sales due to the impact of the pandemic and the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange.  In addition, a reduction in the costs associated with business acquisitions and restructuring activities drove an improvement in operating margins from 2018 to 2020.  In 2019, the increase in Abbott’s operating margin also reflects margin improvement in various businesses and lower intangible amortization expense compared to 2018. With respect to the performance of each reportable segment over the last three years, sales in the Medical Devices segment excluding the impact of foreign exchange decreased 3.8 percent in 2020 and increased 10.5 percent in 2019.  The sales decrease in 2020 was driven by Abbott’s cardiovascular and neuromodulation businesses due primarily to reduced procedure volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  These decreases were partially offset by double-digit growth in Diabetes Care.  The sales increase in 2019 was driven primarily by higher Diabetes Care, Structural Heart, Electrophysiology and Heart Failure sales. 22 In 2020, operating earnings for the Medical Devices segment decreased 19.4 percent. The operating margin profile decreased from 30.8 percent of sales in 2019 to 25.8 percent in 2020 primarily due to lower sales and manufacturing volumes as a result of the pandemic and pricing pressures on drug eluting stents (DES) as a result of market competition in the U.S. and other major markets. In 2020, key product approvals in the Medical Devices segment included: In Abbott’s worldwide diagnostics business, sales increased 40.6 percent in 2020 and 5.9 percent in 2019, excluding the impact of foreign exchange.  As was discussed above, sales growth in 2020 was driven by demand for Abbott's portfolio of COVID-19 diagnostics tests across its rapid and lab-based platforms, partially offset by lower volumes of routine laboratory testing due to the pandemic.  Growth in 2019 reflected continued market penetration by the core laboratory business in the U.S. and internationally.  The 2019 growth included the continued adoption by customers of Alinity, which is Abbott’s integrated family of next-generation diagnostic systems and solutions that are designed to increase efficiency by running more tests in less space, generating test results faster and minimizing human errors while continuing to provide quality results. Abbott has regulatory approvals in the U.S., Europe, China, and other markets for the “Alinity c” and “Alinity i” instruments and has continued to build out its test menu for clinical chemistry and immunoassay diagnostics.  Abbott has obtained regulatory approval for the “Alinity h” instrument for hematology in Europe and Japan.  Abbott has also obtained regulatory approvals in the U.S. and Europe for the “Alinity s” (blood screening) and “Alinity m” (molecular) instruments and several testing assays. In 2020, operating earnings for the Diagnostics segment increased 94.8 percent. The operating margin profile increased from 24.9 percent of sales in 2018 to 34.5 percent in 2020 primarily due to higher sales in 2020 in Rapid Diagnostics and Molecular Diagnostics, partially offset by lower volumes of routine testing in Core Laboratory. 23 In Abbott’s worldwide nutritional products business, sales over the last three years were positively impacted by numerous new product introductions, including the roll-outs of human milk oligosaccharide, or HMO, in infant formula and of high-protein Ensure ® , that leveraged Abbott’s strong brands. Sales were also positively affected by demographics such as an aging population and an increasing rate of chronic disease in developed markets and the rise of a middle class in many emerging markets.  Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, total adult nutrition sales increased 10.3 percent in 2020 and 6.6 percent in 2019 led by the continued growth of Ensure, Abbott’s market-leading complete and balanced nutrition brand, and Glucerna ® , Abbott’s market-leading diabetes-specific nutrition brand, across several countries.  The 2019 sales growth was partially offset by the unfavorable impact of the discontinuation of a non-core product line in the U.S.  Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, total pediatric nutrition sales increased 0.3 percent in 2020 and 3.4 percent in 2019 driven by the PediaSure ® and Pedialyte ® brands in the U.S. as well as infant and toddler product growth across several markets in Asia and Latin America, partially offset by challenging market dynamics in the infant category in Greater China.  The 2020 increase was also driven by higher Similac ® sales in the U.S. The Established Pharmaceutical Products segment focuses on the sale of its products in emerging markets.  Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, Established Pharmaceutical sales increased 1.9 percent in 2020 and 7.3 percent in 2019.  The sales increases in 2020 and 2019 reflect higher sales in several geographies including India, China, Brazil and Russia.  Operating margins decreased from 20.2 percent of sales in 2018 to 18.5 percent in 2020 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange, product mix and lower gross margins. With respect to Abbott’s financial position, at December 31, 2020, Abbott’s cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments total approximately $7.1 billion compared to $4.1 billion at December 31, 2019.  Abbott’s long-term debt and short-term borrowings total $18.7 billion and $18.1 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Abbott declared dividends of $1.53 per share in 2020 compared to $1.32 per share in 2019, an increase of approximately 16 percent.  Dividends paid totaled $2.560 billion in 2020 compared to $2.270 billion in 2019.  The year-over-year change in the amount of dividends paid primarily reflects the increase in the dividend rate.  In December 2020, Abbott increased the company’s quarterly dividend by 25 percent to $0.45 per share from $0.36 per share, effective with the dividend paid in February 2021. In 2021, Abbott will focus on continuing to meet the demand for COVID-19 tests and will continue to invest in product development areas that provide the opportunity for strong sustainable growth over the next several years.  In its diagnostics business, Abbott will continue to focus on driving market adoption and geographic expansion of its Alinity suite of diagnostics instruments.  In the medical devices business, Abbott will continue to focus on expanding its market position in various areas including diabetes care, structural heart, electrophysiology, and heart failure.  In its nutritionals business, Abbott will continue to focus on driving growth globally and further enhancing its portfolio with the introduction of line extensions of its science-based products.  In the established pharmaceuticals business, Abbott will continue to focus on growing its business with the depth and breadth of its portfolio in emerging markets. 24 Critical Accounting Policies Sales Rebates — In 2020, approximately 41 percent of Abbott’s consolidated gross revenues were subject to various forms of rebates and allowances that Abbott recorded as reductions of revenues at the time of sale.  Most of these rebates and allowances in 2020 are in the Nutritional Products and Diabetes Care businesses.  Abbott provides rebates to state agencies that administer the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), wholesalers, group purchasing organizations, and other government agencies and private entities.  Rebate amounts are usually based upon the volume of purchases using contractual or statutory prices for a product.  Factors used in the rebate calculations include the identification of which products have been sold subject to a rebate, which customer or government agency price terms apply, and the estimated lag time between sale and payment of a rebate.  Using historical trends, adjusted for current changes, Abbott estimates the amount of the rebate that will be paid, and records the liability as a reduction of gross sales when Abbott records its sale of the product.  Settlement of the rebate generally occurs from one to six months after sale.  Abbott regularly analyzes the historical rebate trends and makes adjustments to reserves for changes in trends and terms of rebate programs.  Rebates and chargebacks charged against gross sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018 amounted to approximately $3.3 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively, or 20.1 percent, 19.1 percent and 19.0 percent of gross sales, respectively, based on gross sales of approximately $16.6 billion, $16.3 billion and $16.0 billion, respectively, subject to rebate.  A one-percentage point increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales would decrease net sales by approximately $166 million in 2020.  Abbott considers a one-percentage point increase to be a reasonably likely increase in the percentage of rebates to related gross sales.  Other allowances charged against gross sales were approximately $207 million, $169 million and $175 million for cash discounts in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and $232 million, $192 million and $191 million for returns in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Cash discounts are known within 15 to 30 days of sale, and therefore can be reliably estimated.  Returns can be reliably estimated because Abbott’s historical returns are low, and because sales returns terms and other sales terms have remained relatively unchanged for several periods. Management analyzes the adequacy of ending rebate accrual balances each quarter.  In the domestic nutritional business, management uses both internal and external data available to estimate the accruals.  In the WIC business, estimates are required for the amount of WIC sales within each state where Abbott holds the WIC contract. The state where the sale is made, which is the determining factor for the applicable rebated price, is reliably determinable. Rebated prices are based on contractually obligated agreements generally lasting a period of two to four years. Except for a change in contract price or a transition period before or after a change in the supplier for the WIC business in a state, accruals are based on historical redemption rates and data from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the states submitting rebate claims. The USDA, which administers the WIC program, has been making its data available for many years.  Management also estimates the states' processing lag time based on sales and claims data. Inventory in the retail distribution channel does not vary substantially. Management has access to several large customers' inventory management data, which allows management to make reliable estimates of inventory in the retail distribution channel. At December 31, 2020, Abbott had WIC business in 27 states. Historically, adjustments to prior years’ rebate accruals have not been material to net income.  Abbott employs various techniques to verify the accuracy of claims submitted to it, and where possible, works with the organizations submitting claims to gain insight into changes that might affect the rebate amounts.  For government agency programs, the calculation of a rebate involves interpretations of relevant regulations, which are subject to challenge or change in interpretation. Income Taxes — Abbott operates in numerous countries where its income tax returns are subject to audits and adjustments.  Because Abbott operates globally, the nature of the audit items is often very complex, and the objectives of the government auditors can result in a tax on the same income in more than one country.  Abbott employs internal and external tax professionals to minimize audit adjustment amounts where possible.  In accordance with the accounting rules relating to the measurement of tax contingencies, in order to recognize an uncertain tax benefit, the taxpayer must be more likely than not of sustaining the position, and the measurement of the benefit is calculated as the largest amount that is more than 50 percent likely to be realized upon resolution of the benefit.  Application of these rules requires a significant amount of judgment.  In the U.S., Abbott’s federal income tax returns through 2016 are settled.  Undistributed foreign earnings remain indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations.  Determining the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to any remaining undistributed foreign earnings not subject to the transition tax and additional outside basis difference in its foreign entities is not practicable. 25 Pension and Post-Employment Benefits — Abbott offers pension benefits and post-employment health care to many of its employees.  Abbott engages outside actuaries to assist in the determination of the obligations and costs under these programs.  Abbott must develop long-term assumptions, the most significant of which are the health care cost trend rates, discount rates and the expected return on plan assets.  The discount rates used to measure liabilities were determined based on high-quality fixed income securities that match the duration of the expected retiree benefits.  The health care cost trend rates represent Abbott’s expected annual rates of change in the cost of health care benefits and are a forward projection of health care costs as of the measurement date.  A difference between the assumed rates and the actual rates, which will not be known for years, can be significant in relation to the obligations and the annual cost recorded for these programs.  Low interest rates have significantly increased actuarial losses for these plans.  At December 31, 2020, pretax net actuarial losses and prior service costs and (credits) recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were net losses of $4.6 billion for Abbott’s defined benefit plans and net losses of $419 million for Abbott’s medical and dental plans. Actuarial losses and gains are amortized over the remaining service attribution periods of the employees under the corridor method, in accordance with the rules for accounting for post-employment benefits.  Differences between the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual annual return are amortized over a five-year period. Valuation of Intangible Assets — Abbott has acquired and continues to acquire significant intangible assets that Abbott records at fair value at the acquisition date.  Transactions involving the purchase or sale of intangible assets occur with some frequency between companies in the health care field and valuations are usually based on a discounted cash flow analysis.  The discounted cash flow model requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future net cash flows, risk, cost of capital, terminal values and market participants.  Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset.  Abbott engages independent valuation experts who review Abbott’s critical assumptions and calculations for acquisitions of significant intangibles.  Abbott reviews definite-lived intangible assets for impairment each quarter using an undiscounted net cash flows approach.  If the undiscounted cash flows of an intangible asset are less than the carrying value of an intangible asset, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value, which is usually the discounted cash flow amount.  Where cash flows cannot be identified for an individual asset, the review is applied at the lowest group level for which cash flows are identifiable.  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which relate to in-process research and development acquired in a business combination, are reviewed for impairment annually or when an event that could result in impairment occurs.  At December 31, 2020, goodwill amounted to $23.7 billion and net intangibles amounted to $14.8 billion.  Amortization expense in continuing operations for intangible assets amounted to $2.1 billion in 2020, $1.9 billion in 2019 and $2.2 billion in 2018.  There was no reduction of goodwill relating to impairments in 2020, 2019 and 2018. Litigation — Abbott accounts for litigation losses in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) No. 450, “Contingencies.” Under ASC No. 450, loss contingency provisions are recorded for probable losses at management’s best estimate of a loss, or when a best estimate cannot be made, a minimum loss contingency amount is recorded.  These estimates are often initially developed substantially earlier than the ultimate loss is known, and the estimates are refined each accounting period as additional information becomes known.  Accordingly, Abbott is often initially unable to develop a best estimate of loss, and therefore the minimum amount, which could be zero, is recorded.  As information becomes known, either the minimum loss amount is increased, resulting in additional loss provisions, or a best estimate can be made, also resulting in additional loss provisions.  Occasionally, a best estimate amount is changed to a lower amount when events result in an expectation of a more favorable outcome than previously expected.  Abbott estimates the range of possible loss to be from approximately $90 million to $120 million for its legal proceedings and environmental exposures.  Accruals of approximately $105 million have been recorded at December 31, 2020 for these proceedings and exposures.  These accruals represent management’s best estimate of probable loss, as defined by FASB ASC No. 450, “Contingencies.” 26 Results of Operations Sales The following table details the components of sales growth by reportable segment for the last two years: ​ ​ The increase in Total Net Sales in 2020 reflects volume growth in the Diagnostics and Nutritional Products segments.  In Medical Devices, the impact of COVID-19 on Abbott’s cardiovascular and neuromodulation businesses was partially offset by double-digit volume growth in Diabetes Care.  The increase in Total Net Sales in 2019 reflects volume growth across all of Abbott’s segments.  The price declines related to the Medical Devices segment in 2020 and 2019 primarily reflect DES pricing pressures as a result of market competition in the U.S. and other major markets. 27 A comparison of significant product and product group sales is as follows.  Percent changes are versus the prior year and are based on unrounded numbers. ​ ​ 28 ​ In order to compute results excluding the impact of exchange rates, current year U.S. dollar sales are multiplied or divided, as appropriate, by the current year average foreign exchange rates and then those amounts are multiplied or divided, as appropriate, by the prior year average foreign exchange rates. Total Established Pharmaceutical Products sales increased 1.9 percent in 2020 and 7.3 percent in 2019, excluding the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange.  The Established Pharmaceutical Products segment is focused on several key emerging markets including India, Russia, China and Brazil.  Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, total sales in these key emerging markets increased 2.6 percent in 2020 and 7.9 percent in 2019 due to higher sales in several geographies including China, Brazil, India and Russia.  Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, sales in Established Pharmaceuticals’ other emerging markets decreased 0.5 percent in 2020 and increased 5.6 percent in 2019. Total Nutritional Products sales increased 4.7 percent in 2020 and 4.8 percent in 2019, excluding the impact of foreign exchange.  In 2020, International Pediatric Nutritional sales, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, decreased 4.1 percent as growth across Abbott’s pediatric products in various countries in Southeast Asia was more than offset by challenging market dynamics in the infant category in Greater China.  The 4.6 percent increase in 2019 International Pediatric Nutritional sales, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, was driven by growth across Abbott’s portfolio, including Similac and PediaSure in various countries in Asia and Latin America and Pedialyte in Latin America.  This growth was partially offset by challenging market dynamics in the infant category in Greater China.  In the U.S. Pediatric Nutritional business, sales increased 5.8 percent in 2020 and 1.9 percent in 2019, reflecting growth in Similac in 2020 and growth in PediaSure and Pedialyte in both years. 29 In the International Adult Nutritional business, sales increased 13.6 percent and 10.9 percent in 2020 and 2019, respectively, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, due to continued growth of Ensure and Glucerna in several countries.  In 2020 U.S. Adult Nutritional sales increased 4.9 percent, primarily due to growth of Ensure.  In 2019, U.S. Adult Nutritional sales were unchanged from 2018 due to the impact of Abbott’s discontinuation of a non-core product line during the third quarter of 2018 that was offset by growth in other areas of the business. In the Diagnostics segment, Core Laboratory sales decreased 2.8 percent in 2020, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, as the lower volume of routine testing performed in hospital and other laboratories due to COVID-19 was partially offset by sales of Abbott’s COVID-19 laboratory-based tests for the detection of the IgG and IgM antibodies, which determine if someone was previously infected with the virus.  Core Laboratory antibody testing-related sales on Abbott’s ARCHITECT and Alinity i platforms were $268 million in 2020.  The 225.7 percent increase in Molecular Diagnostics sales in 2020, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, reflects higher volumes due to demand for Abbott’s laboratory-based molecular tests for COVID-19 on its m2000 and Alinity m platforms.  Abbott received U.S. FDA approval in March 2020 for its Alinity m molecular diagnostics system.  Molecular Diagnostics COVID-19 testing-related sales were $1.023 billion in 2020. In Rapid Diagnostics, sales increased 112.3 percent in 2020, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, due to strong demand for Abbott’s point-of-care COVID-19 molecular test on its ID NOW platform and its BinaxNOW COVID-19 Ag Card test in the U.S. as well as international demand for COVID-19 rapid tests on its Panbio system and increased testing in the first quarter for the flu in the U.S. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of COVID-19 on routine diagnostic testing.  Rapid Diagnostics COVID-19 testing-related sales were $2.593 billion in 2020. In the Diagnostics segment, the sales increase in 2019 was driven by above-market growth in Core Laboratory in the U.S. and internationally, where Abbott achieved continued adoption of its Alinity family of diagnostic instruments.  The 6.3 percent decrease in 2019 Molecular sales, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, reflects the negative impact of lower non-governmental organization purchases in Africa.  In Rapid Diagnostics, sales growth in 2019 in various areas, including infectious disease testing in developed markets and cardio-metabolic testing, was mostly offset by lower than expected infectious disease testing sales in Africa. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange, total Medical Devices sales decreased 3.8 percent and increased 10.5 percent in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  In 2020, double-digit growth in Diabetes Care was more than offset by decreases in Abbott’s cardiovascular and neuromodulation businesses due to the impact of COVID-19 and lower vascular sales in China in the fourth quarter of 2020 as a result of a new national tender program.  The 2019 sales increase was driven by double-digit growth in Diabetes Care, Structural Heart, Electrophysiology and Heart Failure. The 2020 and 2019 growth in Diabetes Care revenue was driven by continued growth of FreeStyle Libre, Abbott’s continuous glucose monitoring system, internationally and in the U.S.  In 2020, FreeStyle Libre sales totaled $2.635 billion, which reflected a 42.6 percent increase over 2019, excluding the effect of foreign exchange.  FreeStyle Libre sales in 2019 were $1.842 billion, which reflected a 69.8 percent increase, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, over 2018 when sales totaled $1.128 billion. In 2019, growth in Structural Heart revenue was broad-based across several areas of the business, including MitraClip, Abbott's market-leading device for the minimally invasive treatment of mitral regurgitation (MR), a leaky heart valve.  2019 growth in Electrophysiology revenue reflects higher sales of cardiac diagnostic and ablation catheters in both the U.S. and internationally.  The growth in Heart Failure revenue in 2019 was driven by rapid market adoption in the U.S. of Abbott's HeartMate 3 ® Left Ventricular Assist Device (LVAD) following FDA approval in October 2018 as a destination (long-term use) therapy for people living with advanced heart failure as well as higher sales of Abbott’s CardioMEMS ® heart failure monitoring system.  In Vascular, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, sales in 2019 were flat as the 1.3 percent increase in coronary and endovascular product sales, which includes drug-eluting stents, balloon catheters, guidewires, vascular imaging/diagnostics products, vessel closure, carotid and other coronary and peripheral products, was offset by reductions in royalty and contract manufacturing revenue.  In Rhythm Management, higher 2019 international sales, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, were offset by a 4.4 percent decrease in U.S. revenue.  In 2019, the 2.4 percent decline in Neuromodulation sales, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, reflects a 4.2 percent decline in U.S. sales. Abbott has periodically sold product rights to non-strategic products and has recorded the related gains in net sales in accordance with Abbott’s revenue recognition policies as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.  Related net sales were not significant in 2020, 2019 and 2018. 30 The expiration of licenses and patent protection can affect the future revenues and operating income of Abbott.  There are no significant patent or license expirations in the next three years that are expected to materially affect Abbott. In April 2017, Abbott received a warning letter from the U.S. FDA related to its manufacturing facility in Sylmar, CA which was acquired by Abbott on January 4, 2017 as part of the acquisition of St. Jude Medical, Inc. (St. Jude Medical).  This facility manufactures implantable cardioverter defibrillators, cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillators, and monitors.  Abbott prepared and executed a comprehensive plan of corrective actions.  On April 28, 2020, Abbott received a letter from the FDA indicating that, based on the FDA’s evaluation, it appeared that Abbott had addressed the items in the warning letter.  As a result, the warning letter is considered closed. Operating Earnings Gross profit margins were 50.5 percent of net sales in 2020, 52.5 percent in 2019 and 51.3 percent in 2018.  In 2020, the decrease primarily reflects the mix of sales across Abbott’s various businesses and operational inefficiencies due to the impact of COVID-19, as well as the increase in intangible asset amortization, the impairment of intangible assets and the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange on gross margin in 2020.  In 2019, the increase primarily reflects lower intangible amortization expense and lower integration and restructuring costs. Research and development (R&D) expenses were $2.4 billion in 2020 and 2019, and $2.3 billion in 2018.  R&D spending in 2020 was relatively flat compared to 2019 as the impact of the immediate expensing in 2019 of an R&D asset valued at $102 million that was acquired in conjunction with the acquisition of Cephea Valve Technologies, Inc. (Cephea) was partially offset by the $55 million impairment of an in-process R&D intangible asset in 2020.  R&D expense in 2020 also reflects lower integration and restructuring costs in 2020 related to R&D, partially offset by higher spending on various projects.  R&D expenses in 2019 increased 6.1 percent, primarily reflecting the immediate expensing of the Cephea R&D asset as well as higher R&D spending in various businesses, primarily in Medical Devices, partially offset by the favorable effect of foreign exchange.  In 2020, R&D expenditures totaled $1.3 billion for the Medical Devices segment, $608 million for the Diagnostic Products segment, $189 million for the Nutritional Products segment and $177 million for the Established Pharmaceutical Products segment. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were basically flat in 2020 and 2019 versus the respective prior years.  In 2020, the favorable effect of foreign exchange, income of approximately $100 million from a litigation settlement in 2020, lower spending due to COVID-19 travel  restrictions, and the impact of various cost saving initiatives were offset by higher spending to drive growth in various businesses.  In 2019, the favorable effect of foreign exchange and lower acquisition-related integration costs offset higher selling and marketing costs to drive continued growth across various businesses. Restructurings From 2017 to 2020, Abbott management approved restructuring plans as part of the integration of the acquisitions of St. Jude Medical into the Medical Devices segment, and Alere Inc. (Alere) into the Diagnostic Products segment, in order to leverage economies of scale and reduce costs. As of December 31, 2017, the accrued balance associated with these actions was $68 million. From 2018 to 2020, Abbott recorded employee related severance and other charges totaling approximately $137 million, comprised of $13 million in 2020, $72 million in 2019 and $52 million in 2018. Approximately $30 million was recorded in Cost of products sold, approximately $15 million was recorded in Research and development, and approximately $92 million was recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense over the last three years. As of December 31, 2020, the accrued liabilities remaining in the Consolidated Balance Sheet related to these actions total $25 million and primarily represent severance obligations. From 2016 to 2020, Abbott management approved plans to streamline operations in order to reduce costs and improve efficiencies in various Abbott businesses including the nutritional, established pharmaceuticals and vascular businesses.  Abbott recorded employee related severance and other charges of approximately $36 million in 2020, $66 million in 2019 and $28 million in 2018.  Approximately $6 million in 2020, $16 million in 2019 and $10 million in 2018 are recorded in Cost of products sold, approximately $2 million in 2020, $28 million in 2019 and $2 million in 2018 are recorded in Research and development, and approximately $28 million in 2020, $22 million in 2019 and $16 million in 2018 are recorded in Selling, general and administrative expense. 31 Interest Expense and Interest (Income) Interest expense, net decreased $76 million in 2020 due to a reduction in interest expense resulting from the favorable impact of the euro debt financing in November 2019, the repayment of debt in December 2019 and a lower interest rate environment in 2020.  In 2019, interest expense, net decreased $145 million due to the favorable impact of the euro debt financing in September 2018, as well as the repayment of debt in 2018 and the first quarter of 2019. Debt Extinguishment Costs On December 19, 2019, Abbott redeemed the $2.850 billion principal amount of its 2.9% Notes due 2021. Abbott incurred a charge of $63 million related to the early repayment of this debt. On October 28, 2018, Abbott redeemed approximately $4 billion of debt, which included $750 million principal amount of its 2.00% Notes due 2020; $597 million principal amount of its 4.125% Notes due 2020; $900 million principal amount of its 3.25% Notes due 2023; $450 million principal amount of its 3.4% Notes due 2023; and $1.300 billion principal amount of its 3.75% Notes due 2026.  Abbott incurred a net charge of $153 million related to the early repayment of this debt and the unwinding of related interest rate swaps. On March 22, 2018, Abbott redeemed all of the $947 million principal amount of its 5.125% Notes due 2019, as well as $1.055 billion of the $2.850 billion principal amount of its 2.35% Notes due 2019.  Abbott incurred a net charge of $14 million related to the early repayment of this debt. Other (Income) Expense, net Other (income) expense, net, for 2020, 2019 and 2018 includes approximately $205 million, $225 million, and $160 million of income in each year, respectively, related to the non-service cost components of the net periodic benefit costs associated with the pension and post-retirement medical plans.  Other (income) expense, net for 2020 also includes equity investment impairments that totaled approximately $115 million. Taxes on Earnings The income tax rates on earnings from continuing operations were 10.0 percent in 2020, 9.6 percent in 2019 and 18.8 percent in 2018. In 2020, taxes on earnings from continuing operations include the recognition of approximately $170 million of tax benefits associated with the impairment of certain assets, approximately $140 million of net tax benefits as a result of the resolution of various tax positions related to prior years, and approximately $100 million in excess tax benefits associated with share-based compensation.  In 2020, taxes on earnings from continuing operations also include a $26 million increase to the transition tax associated with the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA).  The $26 million increase to the transition tax liability was the result of the resolution of various tax positions related to prior years.  This adjustment increased the cumulative net tax expense related to the TCJA to $1.53 billion. In 2019, taxes on earnings from continuing operations included approximately $100 million in excess tax benefits associated with share-based compensation, an $86 million reduction of the transition tax and $68 million of tax expense resulting from tax legislation enacted in the fourth quarter of 2019 in India.  The $86 million reduction to the transition tax liability was the result of the issuance of final transition tax regulations by the U.S. Department of Treasury in 2019.  In 2018, taxes on earnings from continuing operations included $98 million of net tax expense related to the settlement of Abbott’s 2014-2016 federal income tax audit in the U.S., partial settlement of the former St. Jude Medical consolidated group’s 2014 and 2015 federal income tax returns in the U.S. and audit settlements in various countries as well as approximately $90 million in excess tax benefits associated with share-based compensation.  In 2018, Abbott also recorded $130 million of additional tax expense related to the TCJA; the $130 million reflected a $120 million increase in the transition tax from $2.89 billion to $3.01 billion and a $10 million reduction in the net benefit related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities. 32 Exclusive of these discrete items, tax expense was favorably impacted by lower tax rates and tax exemptions on foreign income primarily derived from operations in Puerto Rico, Switzerland, Ireland, the Netherlands, Costa Rica, Singapore, and Malta.  Abbott benefits from a combination of favorable statutory tax rules, tax rulings, grants, and exemptions in these tax jurisdictions.  See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for a full reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the U.S. federal statutory rate. Discontinued Operations The net earnings of discontinued operations include income tax benefits of $24 million in 2020 and $39 million in 2018.  The 2020 tax benefits primarily relate to the resolution of various tax positions related to Abbott’s developed markets branded generic pharmaceuticals business which was sold to Mylan Inc. (Mylan) in 2015.  The tax positions relate to years prior to the sale to Mylan.  The 2018 tax benefits primarily relate to the resolution of various tax positions related to the operations of AbbVie Inc. (AbbVie) for years prior to the separation.  Abbott completed the separation of AbbVie, which was formed to hold Abbott’s research-based proprietary pharmaceuticals business, in January 2013.  Abbott retained all liabilities for all U.S. federal and foreign income taxes on income prior to the separation. Research and Development Programs Abbott currently has numerous pharmaceutical, medical devices, diagnostic and nutritional products in development. Research and Development Process In the Established Pharmaceuticals segment, the development process focuses on the geographic expansion and continuous improvement of the segment’s existing products to provide benefits to patients and customers. As Established Pharmaceuticals does not actively pursue primary research, development usually begins with work on existing products or after the acquisition of an advanced stage licensing opportunity. Depending upon the product, the phases of development may include: The specific requirements (e.g., scope of clinical trials) for obtaining regulatory approval vary across different countries and geographic regions. The process may range from one year for a bioequivalence study project to 6 or more years for complex formulations, new indications, or geographic expansion in specific countries, such as China. In the Diagnostics segment, the phases of the research and development process include: 33 The regulatory requirements for diagnostic products vary across different countries and geographic regions. In the U.S., the FDA classifies diagnostic products into classes (I, II, or III) and the classification determines the regulatory process for approval. While the Diagnostics segment has products in all three classes, the vast majority of its products are categorized as Class I or Class II. Submission of a separate regulatory filing is not required for Class I products. Class II devices typically require pre-market notification to the FDA through a regulatory filing known as a 510(k) submission. Most Class III products are subject to the FDA’s Premarket Approval (PMA) requirements. Other Class III products, such as those used to screen blood, require the submission and approval of a Biological License Application (BLA). In the European Union (EU), diagnostic products are also categorized into different categories and the regulatory process, which has been governed by the European In Vitro Diagnostic Medical Device Directive, depends upon the category, with certain product categories requiring review and approval by an independent company, known as a Notified Body, before the manufacturer can affix a CE mark to the product to declare conformity to the Directive.  Other products only require a self-certification process.  In the second quarter of 2017, the EU adopted the new In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (IVDR) which replaces the existing directive in the EU for in vitro diagnostic products.  The IVDR will apply after a five-year transition period and imposes additional premarket and postmarket regulatory requirements on manufacturers of such products. In the Medical Devices segment, the research and development process begins with research on a specific technology that is evaluated for feasibility and commercial viability.  If the research program passes that hurdle, it moves forward into development.  The development process includes evaluation, selection and qualification of a product design, completion of applicable clinical trials to test the product’s safety and efficacy, and validation of the manufacturing process to demonstrate its repeatability and ability to consistently meet pre-determined specifications. Similar to the diagnostic products discussed above, in the U.S., medical devices are classified as Class I, II, or III.  Most of Abbott’s medical device products are classified as Class II devices that follow the 510(k) regulatory process or Class III devices that are subject to the PMA process. In the EU, medical devices are also categorized into different classes and the regulatory process, which has been governed by the European Medical Device Directive and the Active Implantable Medical Device Directive, varies by class.  Each product must bear a CE mark to show compliance with the Directive.  In the second quarter of 2017, the EU adopted the new Medical Devices Regulation (MDR) which replaces the existing directives in the EU for medical devices and imposes additional premarket and postmarket regulatory requirements on manufacturers of such products.  While the MDR was previously adopted to apply after a three year transition period, in 2020 the European Parliament postponed the date of application by one year. Some products require submission of a design dossier to the appropriate regulatory authority for review and approval prior to CE marking of the device. For other products, the company is required to prepare a technical file which includes testing results and clinical evaluations but can self-certify its ability to apply the CE mark to the product. Outside the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory requirements vary across different countries and regions. After approval and commercial launch of some medical devices, post-market trials may be conducted either due to a conditional requirement of the regulatory market approval or with the objective of proving product superiority. In the Nutritional segment, the research and development process generally focuses on identifying and developing ingredients and products that address the nutritional needs of particular populations (e.g., infants and adults) or patients (e.g., people with diabetes).  Depending upon the country and/or region, if claims regarding a product’s efficacy will be made, clinical studies typically must be conducted. In the U.S., the FDA requires that it be notified of proposed new formulations and formulation or packaging changes related to infant formula products.  Prior to the launch of an infant formula or product packaging change, the company is required to obtain the FDA’s confirmation that it has no objections to the proposed product or packaging.  For other nutritional products, notification or pre-approval from the FDA is not required unless the product includes a new food additive.  In some countries, regulatory approval may be required for certain nutritional products, including infant formula and medical nutritional products. 34 Areas of Focus In 2021 and beyond, Abbott’s significant areas of therapeutic focus will include the following: Established Pharmaceuticals — Abbott focuses on building country-specific portfolios made up of high-quality medicines that meet the needs of people in emerging markets.  Over the next several years, Abbott plans to expand its product portfolio in key therapeutic areas with the aim of being among the first to launch new off-patent and differentiated medicines.  In addition, Abbott continues to expand existing brands into new markets, implement product enhancements that provide value to patients and acquire strategic products and technology through licensing activities.  Abbott is also actively working on the further development of several key brands such as Creon™, Duphaston™, Duphalac™ and Influvac™.  Depending on the product, the activities focus on development of new data, markets, formulations, delivery systems, or indications.  One example includes the launch of Abbott’s quadrivalent influenza vaccination Influvac® Tetra in 12 markets and an expanded indication in 16 markets to cover children, adolescents and young adults from 3 to 17 years old. Medical Devices — Abbott’s research and development programs focus on: Nutritionals — Abbott is focusing its research and development spend on platforms that span the pediatric and adult nutrition areas: gastro intestinal/immunity health, brain health, mobility and metabolism, and user experience platforms.  Numerous new products that build on advances in these platforms are currently under development, including clinical outcome testing, and are expected to be launched over the coming years. Core Laboratory Diagnostics — Abbott continues to commercialize its next-generation blood screening, immunoassay, clinical chemistry and hematology systems, along with assays, including a focus on unmet medical need, in various areas including infectious disease, cardiac care, metabolics, and oncology, as well as informatics solutions to help optimize diagnostics laboratory performance and automation solutions to increase efficiency in laboratories. Molecular Diagnostics — Several new molecular in vitro diagnostic (IVD) tests are in various stages of development and launch. Rapid Diagnostics — Abbott’s research and development programs focus on the development of diagnostic products for infectious disease, cardiometabolic disease and toxicology. In addition, the Diagnostics Divisions are pursuing the FDA’s customary regulatory process for various COVID-19 tests for which an EUA was obtained in 2020. 35 Given the diversity of Abbott’s business, its intention to remain a broad-based health care company and the numerous sources for potential future growth, no individual project is expected to be material to cash flows or results of operations over the next five years.  Factors considered included research and development expenses projected to be incurred for the project over the next year relative to Abbott’s total research and development expenses, as well as qualitative factors, such as marketplace perceptions and impact of a new product on Abbott’s overall market position.  There were no delays in Abbott’s 2020 research and development activities that are expected to have a material impact on operations. While the aggregate cost to complete the numerous projects currently in development is expected to be material, the total cost to complete will depend upon Abbott’s ability to successfully finish each project, the rate at which each project advances, and the ultimate timing for completion.  Given the potential for significant delays and the risk of failure inherent in the development of medical device, diagnostic and pharmaceutical products and technologies, it is not possible to accurately estimate the total cost to complete all projects currently in development.  Abbott plans to manage its portfolio of projects to achieve research and development spending that will be competitive in each of the businesses in which it participates, and such spending is expected to approximate 7.0 percent of total Abbott sales in 2021.  Abbott does not regularly accumulate or make management decisions based on the total expenses incurred for a particular development phase in a given period. Goodwill At December 31, 2020, goodwill recorded as a result of business combinations totaled $23.7 billion.  Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually in the third quarter or when an event that could result in an impairment occurs, using a quantitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  The income and market approaches are used to calculate the fair value of each reporting unit.  The results of the last impairment test indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value. Financial Condition Cash Flow Net cash from operating activities amounted to $7.9 billion, $6.1 billion and $6.3 billion in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The increase in Net cash from operating activities in 2020 was primarily due to the favorable cash flow impact of higher segment operating earnings, lower payments related to interest, integration expenses, and restructuring actions, and the proceeds from a litigation settlement partially offset by an increased investment in working capital and higher income tax payments.  The decrease in Net cash from operating activities in 2019 was primarily due to an increased investment in working capital, timing of pension contributions relative to 2018 and higher income tax payments, partially offset by the favorable cash flow impact of improved segment operating earnings and lower interest and acquisition-related expenses. While a significant portion of Abbott’s cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2020, are reinvested in foreign subsidiaries, Abbott does not expect such reinvestment to affect its liquidity and capital resources.  Due to the enactment of the TCJA, if these funds were needed for operations in the U.S., Abbott does not expect to incur significant additional income taxes in the future to repatriate these funds. Abbott funded $400 million in 2020, $382 million in 2019 and $114 million in 2018 to defined benefit pension plans.  Abbott expects pension funding of approximately $410 million in 2021 for its pension plans.  Abbott expects annual cash flow from operating activities to continue to exceed Abbott’s capital expenditures and cash dividends. Debt and Capital At December 31, 2020, Abbott’s long-term debt rating was A by Standard & Poor’s Corporation and A3 by Moody’s.  Abbott expects to maintain an investment grade rating. 36 Abbott has readily available financial resources, including unused lines of credit that support commercial paper borrowing arrangements and provide Abbott with the ability to borrow up to $5 billion on an unsecured basis.  The lines of credit are part of a Five Year Credit Agreement (Revolving Credit Agreement) that Abbott entered into on November 12, 2020.  At that time, Abbott also terminated its 2018 revolving credit agreement.  There were no outstanding borrowings under the 2018 revolving credit agreement at the time of its termination.  Any borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement will mature and be payable on November 12, 2025. Any borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement will bear interest, at Abbott’s option, based on either a base rate or Eurodollar rate, plus an applicable margin based on Abbott’s credit ratings. In 2020, financing activities related to the issuance and repayment of long-term debt included the following: As of December 31, 2020, Abbott’s total debt is $18.7 billion. In 2018 and 2019, Abbott committed to reducing its debt levels which had increased as part of the acquisitions of St. Jude Medical and Alere in 2017. In 2018, net repayments totaled approximately $8.3 billion of debt. On February 24, 2019, Abbott redeemed the $500 million outstanding principal amount of its 2.80% Notes due 2020. In September 2019, the board of directors authorized the early redemption of up to $5 billion of outstanding long-term notes.  This bond redemption authorization superseded the board’s previous authorization under which $700 million had not yet been redeemed.  On December 19, 2019, Abbott redeemed the $2.850 billion outstanding principal amount of its 2.90% Notes due 2021.  $2.15 billion of the 2019 $5 billion redemption authorization remains available as of December 31, 2020. On November 19, 2019, Abbott’s wholly owned subsidiary, Abbott Ireland Financing DAC, completed a euro debt offering of €1.180 billion of long-term debt.  The proceeds equated to approximately $1.3 billion.  The Notes are guaranteed by Abbott. On November 21, 2019, Abbott borrowed ¥59.8 billion under a 5-year term loan and designated the yen-denominated loan as a hedge of its net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries.  The term loan bears interest at TIBOR plus a fixed spread, and the interest rate is reset quarterly.  The proceeds equated to approximately $550 million. In total, these 2019 transactions resulted in the repayment of approximately of $1.6 billion of debt, net of borrowings. In September 2014, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3.0 billion of Abbott’s common shares from time to time.  Under the program authorized in 2014, Abbott repurchased 36.2 million shares at a cost of $1.666 billion in 2015, 10.4 million shares at a cost of $408 million in 2016, 1.9 million shares at a cost of $130 million in 2018, 6.3 million shares at a cost of $525 million in 2019, and 1.6 million shares at a cost of $173 million in 2020 for a total of approximately $2.9 billion.  In October 2019, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $3 billion of Abbott’s common shares from time to time.  The 2019 authorization is in addition to the approximately $100 million unused portion of the share repurchase program authorized in 2014. On April 27, 2016, the board of directors authorized the issuance and sale for general corporate purposes of up to 75 million common shares that would result in proceeds of up to $3 billion.  No shares have been issued under this authorization. Abbott declared dividends of $1.53 per share in 2020 compared to $1.32 per share in 2019, an increase of approximately 16 percent.  Dividends paid were $2.560 billion in 2020 compared to $2.270 billion in 2019.  The year-over-year change in dividends paid primarily reflects the impact of the increase in the dividend rate. 37 Working Capital Working capital was $8.5 billion at December 31, 2020 and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2019.  The increase was due in large part to the higher level of cash and cash equivalents, which was due primarily to the increase in cash generated from operating activities, and the repayment of the current portion of long term debt after the issuance of new long term notes in 2020.  Working capital also increased due to the higher levels of accounts receivable and inventory partially offset by an increase in accounts payable associated with the growth of the business. Abbott monitors the credit worthiness of customers and establishes an allowance that reflects the current estimate of credit losses expected to be incurred over the life of the financial asset.  Abbott considers various factors in establishing, monitoring, and adjusting its allowance for doubtful accounts, including the aging of the accounts and aging trends, the historical level of charge-offs, and specific exposures related to particular customers.  Abbott also monitors other risk factors and forward-looking information, such as country risk, when determining credit limits for customers and establishing adequate allowances. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures of $2.2 billion in 2020, $1.6 billion in 2019 and $1.4 billion in 2018 were principally for upgrading and expanding manufacturing and research and development facilities and equipment in various segments, investments in information technology, and laboratory instruments placed with customers.  The 2020 increase in capital expenditures primarily reflects the building of capacity for the manufacture of COVID-19 diagnostics tests. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes Abbott’s estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020. ​ ​ 38 Contingent Obligations Abbott periodically acquires a business or product rights in which Abbott agrees to pay contingent consideration based on attaining certain thresholds or based on the occurrence of certain events. Legislative Issues Abbott’s primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial government regulations throughout the world. Abbott expects debate to continue over the availability, method of delivery, and payment for health care products and services. It is not possible to predict the extent to which Abbott or the health care industry in general might be adversely affected by these factors in the future. A more complete discussion of these factors is contained in Item 1, Business, and Item 1A, Risk Factors. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In December 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes, which among other things, eliminates certain exceptions in the current rules regarding the approach for intraperiod tax allocations and the methodology for calculating income taxes in an interim period, and clarifies the accounting for transactions that result in a step-up in the tax basis of goodwill.  The standard becomes effective for Abbott in the first quarter of 2021.  Adoption of this new standard will not have a material impact on Abbott’s consolidated financial statements. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income , which allows companies to reclassify stranded tax effects resulting from the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings (Earnings employed in the business).  Abbott adopted the new standard at the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2018.  As a result of the adoption of the new standard, approximately $337 million of stranded tax effects were reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to Earnings employed in the business. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory , which requires the recognition of the income tax effects of intercompany sales and transfers of assets, other than inventory, in the period in which the transfer occurs. Abbott adopted the standard on January 1, 2018, using a modified retrospective approach and recorded a cumulative catch-up adjustment to Earnings employed in the business in the Consolidated Balance Sheet that was not significant. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses , which changes the methodology to be used to measure credit losses for certain financial instruments and financial assets, including trade receivables.  The new methodology requires the recognition of an allowance that reflects the current estimate of credit losses expected to be incurred over the life of the financial asset.  Abbott adopted the standard on January 1, 2020 and recorded a cumulative adjustment that was not significant to Earnings employed in the business in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 — A Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Abbott cautions investors that any forward-looking statements or projections made by Abbott, including those made in this document, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.  Economic, competitive, governmental, technological and other factors that may affect Abbott’s operations are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors. ​ ​ 39