********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Set forth below are risk factors relating to our business. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks that we currently consider not to be material or of which we are not currently aware, and any of these risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical or anticipated results. You should carefully consider these risks along with the other information provided in this report, including our “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our accompanying consolidated financial statements, as well as the information under the heading “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” before investing in any of our securities. We may amend, supplement or add to the risk factors described below from time to time in future reports filed with the SEC. RISK FACTORS SUMMARY The following is a summary description of the material risks and uncertainties to which we may be exposed. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and any such effects may be material. These and other risks are more fully described after this summary description. Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business and Operations • We operate in a highly competitive environment. • The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly cyclical, and we may at times experience periods characterized by excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. • The effects of inflation and global recessionary conditions impact the insurance and reinsurance industry in ways which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Claims for natural and man-made catastrophic events could cause large losses and substantial volatility in our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. • The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the shift to a COVID-19 endemic approach and related risks could materially affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. • The impact of climate change will affect our loss limitation methods, such as the purchase of third party reinsurance and catastrophe risk modeling and risk selection in ways which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation. Changes to existing regulation and supervisory standards, or failure to comply with applicable requirements, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. • We are subject to ongoing legal and policy actions around climate change which may result in implications or additional requirements that could prompt us to shift our risk selection and business strategy in ways which may adversely impact our results of operations. • The Russian invasion of Ukraine has created global instability and also resulted in the imposition of sanctions by the U.S., U.K. and EU on Russia and Russia-related businesses. • Our customers and policyholders may also be impacted by regulatory, technological, market or other risks relating to climate change in ways which we cannot predict with certainty and adversely impact our results of operations. • As we continue to incorporate climate change in our business strategy, we cannot be certain that shareholders, investors and other influential environmental groups will agree with our approach, which may adversely impact our ability to raise funds in the capital markets, our share price and our results of operations. • Governmental, regulatory and rating actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted us, and the continuation or reinstatement of such actions may adversely affect our financial performance. • We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism, cyber attacks, pandemics and political instability, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. • Underwriting risks and reserving for losses are based on probabilities and related modeling, which are subject to inherent uncertainties. • The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. • The availability of reinsurance, retrocessional coverage and capital market transactions to limit our exposure to risks may be limited, and counterparty credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. • We could be materially adversely affected to the extent that important third parties with whom we do business do not adequately or appropriately manage their risks, commit fraud or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. • Emerging claim and coverage issues, including issues relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, may adversely affect our business. • Acquisitions, the addition of new lines of insurance or reinsurance business, expansion into new geographic regions and/or entering into joint ventures or partnerships expose us to risks. • Our information technology systems may be unable to meet the demands of customers and our workforce. • Technology failures and cyber attacks, including, but not limited to, ransomware, exploitation in software or code with malicious intent, state-sponsored cyber attacks, may impact us or our business partners and service providers, causing a disruption in service and operations which would negatively impact our business and/or expose us to litigation. • Cyber incidents or data breaches caused by bad actors or unintentional human error impacting data, including personal data, we maintain or use during our business operations may result in regulatory fines or action, reputation damage and a disruption in our business operations. • A downgrade in our ratings or our inability to obtain a rating for our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may adversely affect our relationships with clients and brokers and negatively impact sales of our products. • Our ability to execute successfully our business strategy, continue to grow and innovate and offer our employees a dynamic and supportive workplace depends on the recruitment, retention and promotion of talented, agile, diverse and resilient employees at all levels of our organization. • Our success will depend on our ability to maintain and enhance effective operating procedures and internal controls and our ERM program. • We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations. • Our business is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to economic trade sanctions and foreign bribery laws, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. • New legislation or regulations relating to the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU could adversely affect us. Risks Relating to Financial Markets and Investment s • Adverse developments in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital; our policyholders, reinsurers and retrocessionaires may also be affected by such developments, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. • Disruption to the financial markets and weak economic conditions resulting from situations such as post pandemic imbalances, inflation and geopolitical conflict may adversely and materially impact our investments, financial condition and results of operation. • Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may adversely affect our financial results. • Uncertainty relating to the determination of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) and the phasing out and replacement of LIBOR with alternative benchmark rates may adversely impact us. • The determination of the amount of current expected credit losses (“CECL”) allowances taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. • Our reinsurance subsidiaries may be required to provide collateral to ceding companies, by applicable regulators, their contracts or other commercial considerations. Their ability to conduct business could be significantly and negatively affected if they are unable to do so. Risks Relating to Our Mortgage Operations • The ultimate performance of the Arch MI U.S. mortgage insurance portfolio remains uncertain. • If the volume of low down payment mortgage originations declines, or if other government housing policies, practices or regulations change, the amount of mortgage insurance we write in the U.S. could decline, which would reduce our mortgage insurance revenues. • Changes to the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market or to GSE eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition or reduce our operating flexibility. • The implementation of the Basel III Capital Accord and FHFA’s Enterprise Capital Rule may adversely affect the use of mortgage insurance and CRT opportunities. Risk Relating to Our Company • Some of the provisions of our bye-laws and our shareholders agreement may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers or changes in management initiated by shareholders. These provisions may also prevent our shareholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover. • There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. • Arch Capital is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other distributions from its operating subsidiaries. • General market conditions and unpredictable factors could adversely affect market prices for our outstanding preferred shares. • Dividends on our preferred shares are non-cumulative. • Our preferred shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. • The voting rights of holders of our preferred shares are limited. Risks Relating to Taxation • We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. federal income taxation and/or the U.S. federal income tax liabilities of our U.S. subsidiaries may increase, including as a result of changes in tax law. • The continuing implementation of the Tax Cuts Act may have a material and adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. • Proposed Treasury Regulations issued on January 24, 2022, if finalized in their current form, could (on prospective basis) cause our U.S. shareholders (including tax-exempt U.S. shareholders) to be subject to current U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our earnings attributable to certain intercompany reinsurance income (whether or not such income is distributed). • We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. • The impact of Bermuda's letter of commitment to the OECD to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. • Legislation enacted in Bermuda as to Economic Substance may affect our operations. • We may become subject to increased taxation in Bermuda and other countries as a result of the OECD's plan on “Base erosion and profit shifting.” • Application of the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directives. Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business and Operations We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we may not be able to compete successfully in our industry. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers and reinsurers, many of which have greater financial, marketing and management resources than we do. See in Item 1 for details on our competitors in each of the major segments we operate in. There has been significant consolidation in the insurance and reinsurance sector in recent years and we may experience increased competition as a result of that consolidation, with consolidated entities having enhanced market power. These consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital base to negotiate price reductions for products and services that compete with ours, and we may experience rate declines and possibly write less business. We also compete on the basis of product offerings and other factors, such as our approach to ESG, and customers may be drawn to our competitors based on these factors. Any failure by us to effectively compete could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The insurance and reinsurance industry is highly cyclical, and we may at times experience periods characterized by excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates. Historically, insurers and reinsurers have experienced significant fluctuations in operating results due to competition, frequency of occurrence or severity of catastrophic events, levels of capacity, general economic conditions, inflation, changes in equity, debt and other investment markets, changes in legislation, case law and prevailing concepts of liability and other factors. Demand for reinsurance is influenced significantly by the underwriting results of primary insurers and prevailing general economic conditions. The supply of insurance and reinsurance is related to prevailing prices and levels of surplus capacity that, in turn, may fluctuate in response to changes in rates of return being realized in the insurance and reinsurance industry on both underwriting and investment sides. As a result, the insurance and reinsurance business historically has been a cyclical industry characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excessive underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels and changes in terms and conditions. Until recently, the supply of insurance and reinsurance had increased over the past several years, and may again in the future, either as a result of capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers. Continued increases in the supply of insurance and reinsurance may have consequences for us, including fewer contracts written, lower premium rates, increased expenses for customer acquisition and retention, and less favorable policy terms and conditions. The effects of inflation and global recessionary conditions impact the insurance and reinsurance industry in ways which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. General economic inflation has increased in recent quarters and may continue to remain at elevated levels for an extended period of time. The potential also exists, after a catastrophe loss or pandemic events like COVID-19, for the development of inflationary pressures in a local economy. This may have a material effect on the adequacy of our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, especially in longer-tailed lines of business. In addition, governmental actions in response to inflationary pressures, such as increasing interest rates, may have a material impact on the market value of our investment portfolio. While we consider the anticipated effects of inflation in our pricing models, reserving processes and exposure management across all lines of business and types of loss including natural catastrophe events, the actual effects of inflation on our results cannot be accurately known until claims are settled. In addition, there are different types of inflation relevant to certain lines of business, the impact of which is difficult to accurately assess at this time. For example, in our mortgage business, the failure of general wages to keep pace with economic inflation, or increases in unemployment due to prolonged recessionary conditions, could prevent borrowers from being able to afford their mortgage payments and thereby increase the frequency of claims beyond our modeled results. Global recessionary conditions, including inflation, the slow recovery of certain sectors from the pandemic, predicted slow growth rates across key markets and other factors, will impact the insurance and reinsurance industry. There is great uncertainty around how severe and how long a recession will last on a global and local basis. While our risk management and business strategy take recessionary conditions into account, we cannot accurately predict the full impact of a recession on our results of business operations. Claims for natural and man-made catastrophic events could cause large losses and substantial volatility in our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made catastrophic events. Natural catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, floods, wildfires, tsunamis, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, droughts and other natural disasters. The frequency and severity of natural catastrophe activity has also been greater in recent years due to climate change caused in part by human actions and other related factors. Catastrophic events caused by humans may include acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. Catastrophes can cause losses in non-property business such as workers’ compensation or general liability. In addition to the nature of the property business, we believe that economic and geographic trends affecting insured property, including inflation, property value appreciation and geographic concentration tend to generally increase the size of losses from catastrophic events over time. Actual losses from future catastrophic events may vary materially from estimates due to the inherent uncertainties in making such determinations resulting from several factors, including the potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients, brokers and ceding companies, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques, the contingent nature of business interruption exposures, the effects of any resultant demand surge on claims activity and attendant coverage issues. In estimating our losses from catastrophic events our considerations can include factors such as overall market losses, additional claims information from our clients, multiple model views and proprietary scenario testing. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the shift to a COVID-19 endemic approach and related risks could materially affect our results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity and disruption of normal business travel and working habits. While we are shifting to a COVID-19 endemic approach, there is still uncertainty about the impact of COVID-19 variants in the long-term. The COVID-19 pandemic impacted our results of operations and a reversion to the COVID-19 restrictions could have a significant effect on our future business, results of operations and financial performance. We may experience higher levels of loss and claims activity in certain lines of business, and our premiums written and earned could also be adversely affected by a suppression of global commercial activity that results in a reduction in insurable assets and other exposure. The pandemic initially resulted in a sharp contraction in the global economy, tightening liquidity and increasing volatility and uncertainty in the capital markets. Coincident global mitigation responses stabilized markets and stimulated economic recovery. During the second quarter of 2020, pandemic-driven dislocations had a negative effect on the performance of our investment portfolio, after which valuations recovered. Continued macroeconomic volatility may persist affecting our businesses and related market opportunities. Certain lines of our business may require additional forms of collateral in the event of a decline in the fair value of securities and benchmarks to which those repayment mechanisms are linked. The impact of an ongoing pandemic on the financial markets may also adversely affect our ability to fund through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and through other means at acceptable terms. The impact of climate change will affect our loss limitation methods, such as the purchase of third party reinsurance and catastrophe risk modeling and risk selection in ways which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changing weather patterns and climatic conditions, such as global warming, have added to the unpredictability, severity and frequency of natural disasters. Uncertainty about complexities of climate change affects our ability to assess with certainty the full impact of climate change and creates uncertainty about future trends and exposures. Although the loss experience of catastrophe insurers and reinsurers has historically been characterized as low frequency, climate change has impacted the frequency and severity of extreme weather events and natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, tornado activity, other windstorms, floods and wildfires in recent years and may continue to increase in the future. Claims for catastrophic events, or an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period, could expose us to large losses, cause substantial volatility in our results of operations and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to write new business if we are not able to adequately assess and reserve for the increased frequency and severity of catastrophes resulting from these environmental factors. Climate change and increasing catastrophic events could increase property damage to residential real estate secured by mortgages owned by the GSEs, and by extension could increase losses to CRT investors. Additionally, climate change may make modeled outcomes less certain or produce new, non-modeled risks. Additionally, catastrophic events could result in increased credit exposure to reinsurers and other counterparties we transact business with, declines in the value of investments we hold and significant disruptions to our physical infrastructure, systems and operations. Climate change-related risks may also specifically adversely impact the value of the securities that we hold. The effects of climate change could also lead to increased credit risk of other counterparties we transact business with, including reinsurers. Changes in security asset prices may impact the value of our fixed income, real estate and commercial mortgage investments, resulting in realized or unrealized losses on our invested assets. These risks are not limited to, but can include: (i) changes in supply/demand characteristics for fossil fuels ( e.g. , coal, oil, natural gas); (ii) advances in low-carbon technology and renewable energy development; and (iii) effects of extreme weather events on the physical and operational exposure of industries and issuers, and the transition that these companies make towards addressing climate risk in their own businesses. We attempt to manage our exposure to these risks relating to climate change through the use of underwriting controls, proprietary and third-party risk models, and the purchase of third-party reinsurance. Underwriting controls can include more restrictive underwriting criteria such as higher premiums and deductibles, reduction in limits offered or losses retained, and more specifically excluded policy risks. Our exposure in connection with a catastrophic event is determined by market capacity, pricing conditions, regulatory capital requirements, our perceptions of underlying risk and surplus preservation. There can be no assurance that our reinsurance coverage and other measures taken will be sufficient to mitigate losses resulting from one or more catastrophic events. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events and the continuation and worsening of recent trends could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation. Changes to existing regulation and supervisory standards, or failure to comply with applicable requirements, could adversely affect our business and results of operation. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries conduct business globally and are subject to varying degrees of regulation in the various jurisdictions in which they conduct business, including by state, federal and national insurance regulators. The purpose of insurance laws and regulations generally is to protect policyholders and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. See in Item 1. We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain appropriate exemptions from, these statutes and regulations, which could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we conduct business and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. Regulatory authorities also may seek to exercise their supervisory or enforcement authority in new or more extensive ways, such as imposing increased capital requirements. These actions, if they occur, could affect the competitive market and the way we conduct our business and manage our capital and could result in lower revenues and higher costs. As a result, such actions could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to ongoing legal and policy actions around climate change which may result in implications or additional requirements which could prompt us to shift our risk selection and business strategy in ways which may adversely impact our results of operations. Governments, regulators, legislators and influential non-governmental organizations continue to focus on enacting laws, regulations and other requirements relating to climate change. We are subject to some of these changing laws, regulations and public policy debates, which are difficult to predict and quantify and may have an adverse impact on our business. Legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions following major catastrophes could force expansion of certain insurance coverages for catastrophe claims or otherwise adversely impact our business. Additionally, changes in regulations or policies relating to climate change or our own leadership decisions implemented as a result of assessing the impact of climate change on our business may result in an increase in the cost of doing business, or a decrease in premiums in certain lines of business. Our efforts to address these exposures are based in part on the outcomes of our loss mitigation measures and risk modeling, our financial results of operations and our communications with our customers and shareholders. We also continue to monitor changes across our industry and geographies and the Board considers these exposures regularly. We may make strategic business decisions to address or respond to some of the legal and policy changes relating to climate change, but there is no assurance that these decisions will adequately address these exposures or that they will not result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or share price. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has created global instability and also resulted in the imposition of sanctions by the U.S., U.K. and EU on Russia and Russia-related businesses. The Russian invasion of Ukraine and ongoing hostilities have created a high level of uncertainty as well as disruption in certain sectors of the global economy. It is impossible to predict whether Russia will expand hostilities to other countries in Europe or elsewhere. A further prolonged war may also create uncertainty in the global economy in the form of oil shortages, inflationary pressures, loss of confidence and general increase in risks worldwide. In response to this aggression, the governments of the U.S., U.K., EU and other countries have implemented several sanctions programs relating to, among other things, the import and transportation of Russian oil and gas and other goods originating in Russia. Certain lines of business we write have been impacted by the sanctions, such as the marine and energy lines of business, although the extent of the impact will depend on the outcome of the war in Ukraine and the nature of future sanctions packages. Our customers and policyholders may also be impacted by regulatory, technological, market or other risks relating to climate change in ways which we cannot predict with certainty and adversely impact our results of operations. Our policyholders and customers are located primarily in countries and regions, such as the U.S., U.K. and EU, where there are regulatory, policy, legal and technological changes resulting from actions relating to climate change. In some cases, those policyholders and customers may not be able to shift their business strategies or adjust adequately to these changes, and their businesses may be negatively impacted or, in some cases, cease to exist. As a result, our results of operations may be impacted by the loss of those customers or a shift in their patterns or levels of insurance coverage in ways we cannot predict. As we continue to incorporate climate change in our business strategy, we cannot be certain that shareholders, investors and other influential environmental groups will agree with our approach, which may adversely impact our ability to raise funds in the capital markets, our share price and our results of operations. Shareholders and investors have placed increased importance on how we are addressing ESG issues. ESG encompass a wide range of issues, including climate change and other environmental risks. Our leadership and Board are actively engaged in understanding the ever-changing ESG landscape and assessing our business operations to ensure that our business strategy reflects our values, that our success depends on our commitment to a diverse workforce, an informed and active dialogue about ESG issues with our customers and shareholders and the strength of our ERM framework. We cannot predict whether our business decisions, business strategy and disclosures relating to climate change and other ESG issues will meet the expectations or particular requirements of certain key institutional shareholders in particular. We may be adversely impacted if shareholders or investors do not agree with, or are not satisfied with, our business strategy and approach to climate change and decide to sell or not purchase our equity or debt instruments or to publicize their dissatisfaction. Governmental, regulatory and rating actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic have impacted us, and the continuation or reinstatement of such actions may adversely affect our financial performance. Actions of the federal, state and local government in the U.S. and other countries where we do business, to address and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 impacted us. While many of those actions have expired, been repealed or removed, it is difficult to predict whether such legislative bodies may choose to reintroduce legislation relating to the pandemic or continue to update existing regulations. For example, we are potentially subject to legislative and/or regulatory action that seeks to retroactively mandate coverage for losses which our insurance policies were not designed or priced to cover. There is proposed legislation in some states to require insurers to cover business interruption claims retroactively irrespective of terms, exclusions or other conditions included in the policies that would otherwise preclude coverage. Some proposed bills would require policies providing business interruption coverage to cover losses prospectively for pandemic-related losses. Insurance regulators in some states will not approve policy exclusions for losses from COVID-19, viruses or pandemics. In addition, a number of states have instituted, and other states are considering instituting, changes designed to effectively expand workers' compensation coverage by creating presumptions of compensability of claims for certain types of workers. Regulatory restrictions or requirements could also impact pricing, risk selection and our rights and obligations with respect to our policies and insureds, including our ability to cancel policies, our ability to increase rates or our right to collect premiums. Some state regulators have issued orders to review insurers’ rates and prevent rate increases, and regulators in other states could take similar actions. It is also possible that changes in economic conditions and steps taken by federal, state and local governments in response to COVID-19 could require an increase in taxes at the federal, state and local levels, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Mortgage defaults related to the pandemic, if not cured, could remain in our defaulted loan inventory for a protracted period of time including due to forbearance programs and foreclosure moratoria, potentially resulting in higher frequency (claim rate) and severity (amount of the claim) for those loans that ultimately result in a claim. Accordingly, extended or extensive forbearance programs, foreclosure moratoria and other changes in regulations or laws may adversely impact our mortgage insurance operations. In addition, the rating agencies continually review the financial strength ratings assigned to the Company and its subsidiaries, and the ratings are subject to change. The COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on financial results and condition, could cause one or more of the rating agencies to downgrade the ratings assigned to the Company and its subsidiaries. The pandemic has resulted, and may continue to result, in a material increase in new defaults as borrowers fail to make timely payments on their mortgages, including as a result of increases in unemployment and entering mortgage forbearance programs that allow borrowers to defer mortgage payments, which may have an adverse impact on our results or operations. We could face unanticipated losses from war, terrorism, cyber attacks, pandemics and political instability, and these or other unanticipated losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial exposure to unexpected, large losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism, pandemics similar to the COVID-19 pandemic, political instability and social unrest. These risks are inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. In certain instances, we specifically insure and reinsure risks resulting from acts of terrorism. We may also insure against risk related to cybersecurity and cyber attacks. In addition, our exposure to cyber attacks includes exposure to ‘silent cyber’ risks, meaning risks and potential losses associated with policies where cyber risk is not specifically included nor excluded in the policies. Even in cases where we attempt to exclude losses from terrorism, cybersecurity and certain other similar risks from some coverages written by us, we may not be successful in doing so. Moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will not limit enforceability of policy language or otherwise issue a ruling adverse to us. Accordingly, while we believe our reinsurance programs, together with the coverage provided under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, as amended (“TRIP”) are sufficient to reasonably limit our net losses relating to potential future terrorist attacks, we can offer no assurance that our available capital will be adequate to cover losses when they materialize. To the extent that an act of terrorism is certified by the Secretary of the Treasury and aggregate industry insured losses resulting from the act of terrorism exceeds the prescribed program trigger, our U.S. insurance operations may be covered under TRIP for up to 80% subject to (i) a mandatory deductible of 20% of our prior year’s direct earned premium for covered property and liability coverages, and (ii) an industry aggregate retention of $37.5 billion. The program trigger for calendar year 2022 and any program year thereafter through 2027 is $200 million. If an act (or acts) of terrorism result in covered losses exceeding the $100 billion annual limit, insurers with losses exceeding their deductibles will not be responsible for additional losses. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events, and to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Underwriting risks and reserving for losses are based on probabilities and related modeling, which are subject to inherent uncertainties. Our success is dependent upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we insure and reinsure. We establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses which represent estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate future settlement and administration costs of losses incurred. We utilize actuarial models as well as available historical insurance industry loss ratio experience and loss development patterns to assist in the establishment of loss reserves. Most or all of these factors are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis, and the effects of these and unforeseen factors could negatively impact our ability to accurately assess the risks of the policies that we write. Changes in the assumptions used by these models or by management could lead to an increase in our estimate of ultimate losses in the future. In addition, there may be significant reporting lags between the occurrence of the insured event and the time it is reported to the insurer and additional lags between the time of reporting and final settlement of claims. In addition, the estimation of loss reserves is more difficult during times of adverse economic and market conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims. Changes in the level of inflation also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves. As a result, actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid can deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our loss reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase loss reserves at the time of such determination with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period when the deficiency becomes known. It is possible that claims in respect of events that have occurred could exceed our claim reserves and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, in a particular period, or our financial condition in general. As a compounding factor, although most insurance contracts have policy limits, the nature of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance is such that losses and the associated expenses can exceed policy limits for a variety of reasons and could significantly exceed the premiums received on the underlying policies, thereby further adversely affecting our financial condition. As of December 31, 2022, our consolidated reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, were approximately $13.8 billion. Such reserves were established in accordance with applicable insurance laws and GAAP. Loss reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. In establishing the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, we have made various assumptions relating to the pricing of our reinsurance contracts and insurance policies and have also considered available historical industry experience and current industry conditions. Any estimates and assumptions made as part of the reserving process could prove to be inaccurate due to several factors, including the fact that for certain lines of business relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through December 31, 2022. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and prudent underwriting of each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we may seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one or series of events. In our insurance operations, we seek to limit our exposure through the purchase of reinsurance. For our U.S. mortgage insurance business, in addition to utilizing reinsurance, we have developed a proprietary risk model that simulates the maximum probable loss resulting from a severe economic event impacting the housing market. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification, including by pricing adjustments in our U.S. mortgage insurance business. Geographic pricing decisions and zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Various provisions of our policies, negotiated to limit our risk, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend, as it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or limitation, or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of these exclusions and limitations. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic events or severe economic events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, or the protections set forth in our policies could be voided, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders’ equity. In addition, factors such as global climate change limit the value of historical experience and therefore further limit the effectiveness of our loss limitation methods. See in Item 7 for further details. Depending on business opportunities and the mix of business that may comprise our insurance, reinsurance and mortgage insurance portfolio, we may seek to adjust our self-imposed limitations on probable maximum pre-tax loss for catastrophe exposed business and mortgage default exposed business. The availability of reinsurance, retrocessional coverage and capital market transactions to limit our exposure to risks may be limited, and counterparty credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We manage risk using reinsurance, retrocessional coverage and capital markets transactions. Our insurance subsidiaries typically cede a portion of their premiums through pro rata, excess of loss and facultative reinsurance agreements. Our reinsurance subsidiaries purchase a limited amount of retrocessional coverage as part of their aggregate risk management program. In addition, our reinsurance subsidiaries participate in “common account” retrocessional arrangements for certain pro rata treaties. Such arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses to all companies participating on such treaties, including the reinsurers, such as our reinsurance subsidiaries, and the ceding company. Economic conditions, including but not limited to recessionary conditions, inflation, declining home prices or the impact of climate change could also have a material impact on our ability to manage our risk aggregations through reinsurance or capital markets transactions. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to successfully mitigate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements. Further, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance and retrocessions because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires does not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. We monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers and attempt to place coverages only with carriers we view as substantial and financially sound. An inability of our reinsurers or retrocessionaires to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our losses for a given event or occurrence may increase if our reinsurers or retrocessionaires dispute or fail to meet their obligations to us or the reinsurance or retrocessional protections purchased by us are exhausted or are otherwise unavailable for any reason. In certain instances, we also require collateral to mitigate our credit risk to our reinsurers or retrocessionaires. We are at risk that losses could exceed the collateral we have obtained. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of our existing reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We could be materially adversely affected to the extent that important third parties with whom we do business do not adequately or appropriately manage their risks, commit fraud or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. For certain lines of our insurance business, we authorize managing general agents, general agents and other producers to write business on our behalf within underwriting authorities prescribed by us. In addition, our mortgage group delegates the underwriting of a significant percentage of its primary new insurance written to certain mortgage lenders. Under this delegated underwriting program, the approved customer may determine whether mortgage loans meet our mortgage insurance program guidelines and commit us to issue mortgage insurance. We rely on the underwriting controls of these agents to write business within the underwriting authorities provided by us. Although we have contractual protections in some instances and we monitor such business on an ongoing basis, our monitoring efforts may not be adequate or our agents may exceed their underwriting authorities or otherwise breach obligations owed to us. In addition, our agents, our insureds or other third parties may commit fraud or otherwise breach their obligations to us. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any one of these issues. While we conduct underwriting, financial, claims and information technology due diligence reviews and apply rigorous standards in the selection of these counterparties, there is no assurance they have provided us accurate or complete information to assess their risk or that they can manage effectively their own risks. The counterparties are also subject to the same global increase in cyber incidents, including ransomware, and we cannot offer assurances that these counterparties have sufficient technical and organizational controls to mitigate these risks. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit and operational risk of those parties, and a material failure to manage their risks may result in material losses or damage to us. Emerging claim and coverage issues, including issues relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, may adversely affect our business. As industry practices and legal, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge, including new or expanded theories of liability. These or other changes could impose new financial obligations on us by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or otherwise require us to make unplanned modifications to the products and services that we provide, or cause the delay or cancellation of products and services that we provide. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance or reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. The effects of unforeseen developments or substantial government intervention could adversely impact us. While we had exposure to a number of lines of business, such as trade credit, travel, workers compensation and property where business interruption coverage under a pandemic such as COVID-19 was at issue, the number of claims in this area has decreased greatly in 2022. In May 2020, FCA commenced court proceedings against a number of insurance companies, including Arch Insurance (U.K.), to test how certain business interruption insurance policies respond to claims arising from COVID-19. The High Court in September 2020 handed down its judgment which, found in favor of policyholders on the majority of the key coverage issues in the representative sample of policies submitted by the defendants. Appeals were filed by six insurers, including Arch Insurance (U.K.), and in January 2021, the Supreme Court in the U.K. broadly confirmed the High Court’s rulings on the business wordings. The impact of this case on Arch Insurance (U.K.)’s results of operations has been modest, and no further litigation has flowed from it that has significantly impacted Arch Insurance (U.K.). Whilst the judgment amended the law in some respects (namely the tests for causation in English litigation), to date this has not had a significant impact on Arch Insurance (U.K.) claims and it is not anticipated to do so, however this cannot be ruled out entirely. See for further details on our mortgage operations. Acquisitions, the addition of new lines of insurance or reinsurance business, expansion into new geographic regions and/or entering into joint ventures or partnerships expose us to risks. We may seek, from time to time, to acquire other companies, acquire selected blocks of business, expand our business lines, expand into new geographic regions and/or enter into joint ventures or partnerships. Such activities expose us to challenges and risks, including: integrating financial and operational reporting systems; establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial controls; funding increased capital needs, overhead expenses or cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated sales and revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties; obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations; obtaining necessary regulatory permissions; and establishing adequate reserves for any acquired book of business. In addition, the value of assets acquired may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates; the liabilities assumed may be greater than expected; and assets and liabilities acquired may be subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. We may also be subject to financial exposures in the event that the sellers of the entities or business we acquire are unable or unwilling to meet their indemnification, reinsurance and other contractual obligations to us. Our failure to manage successfully any of the foregoing challenges and risks may adversely impact our results of operations. Our information technology systems may be unable to meet the demands of customers and our workforce. Our information technology systems service our insurance portfolios. Accordingly, we are highly dependent on the effective operation of these systems. While we believe that the systems are adequate to service our insurance portfolios, there can be no assurance that they will operate in all manners in which we intend or possess all of the functionality required by customers currently or in the future. Our customers, especially our mortgage insurance customers, require that we conduct our business in a secure manner, electronically via the Internet or via electronic data transmission. We must continually invest significant resources in establishing and maintaining electronic connectivity with customers. In order to integrate electronically with customers in the mortgage insurance industry, we require electronic connections between our systems and those of the industry's largest mortgage servicing systems and leading pricing and loan origination systems. Our mortgage group currently possesses connectivity with certain of these external systems, but there is no assurance that such connectivity is sufficient, and we are continually undertaking new electronic integration efforts with third-party loan servicing, pricing and origination systems. We also rely on electronic integrations in our insurance operations with third parties and customers. Inflation and supply chain issues for components to support our informational technology systems or those of our vendors pose risks which are beyond our control and may be difficult to manage. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we do not possess or timely acquire the requisite set of electronic integrations necessary to keep pace with the technological demands of customers. Additionally, attracting and retaining talented information technology employees who support our systems and those of our vendors has been challenging, although the recent easing of this trend may mitigate this risk. Technology failures and cyber attacks, including, but not limited to, ransomware, exploitation in software or code with malicious intent, state-sponsored cyber attacks, may impact us or our business partners and service providers, causing a disruption in service and operations which would negatively impact our business and/or expose us to litigation. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect the electronic information, financial data and proprietary models that are critical to our business. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our employees and our business partners and service providers depends on information technology and electronic information exchange. Like all companies, our information technology systems are vulnerable to data breaches, interruptions or failures due to events that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, power outages, theft, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, malicious actors, errors in usage or through social engineering or phishing and general technology failures. Security breaches by third parties could expose us to the loss or misuse of our information, litigation, financial losses and potential liability. In addition, cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy or other proper functioning of these systems could have a significant negative impact on our operations and possibly our results. We are dependent on certain third party technology service providers and other service providers to operate our business, notably major cloud providers, Software-as-a-Service (or SaaS) solutions, and on-premise software, including proprietary and open source solutions. We also outsource certain business process functions to third parties and may continue do so in the future. This practice exposes us to increased risks related to data security, service disruptions, supply chain issues or the effectiveness of our control system, which could result in our ability to conduct business operations, monetary and reputational damage or harm to our competitive position. Cyber incidents or data breaches caused by bad actors or unintentional human error impacting data, including personal data, we maintain or use during our business operations may result in regulatory fines or action, reputation damage and a disruption in our business operations. We collect, process and store data, including the personal data of our employees, customers and policyholders, as part of our business operations. While we believe we have effective technical and organizational measures in place to prevent, detect, manage and mitigate the impact of data breaches caused by malicious actors, systemic failures or human error, we cannot offer complete assurances that significant data breaches will not occur. A cyber incident could also result in a violation of applicable privacy, data protection or other laws, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers, adversely affect our stock price, cause us to incur remediation costs, increased insurance premiums, and/or give rise to monetary fines and penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business. A downgrade in our ratings or our inability to obtain a rating for our operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may adversely affect our relationships with clients and brokers and negatively impact sales of our products. Similar to our competitors, a ratings downgrade or the potential for such a downgrade, or failure to obtain a necessary rating, could adversely affect our relationships with agents, brokers, wholesalers, intermediaries, clients and other distributors of our existing and new products and services. Some of the reinsurance agreements assumed by our reinsurance operations include provisions that a ratings downgrade or other specified triggering event with respect to our reinsurance operations, such as a reduction in surplus by specified amounts during specified periods, provide our ceding company clients certain rights, including, the right to terminate the subject reinsurance agreement and/or to require us to post additional collateral. Any ratings downgrade or failure to obtain a necessary rating could adversely affect our ability to compete in our markets, could cause our premiums and earnings to decrease and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, a downgrade in ratings of certain of our operating subsidiaries may constitute an event of default under our credit facilities. We can offer no assurances that our ratings will remain at their current levels or that any of our ratings which are under review or watch by ratings agencies will remain unchanged. It is possible that rating agencies may modify their evaluation criteria, heighten the level of scrutiny they apply when analyzing companies in our industry, adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in their models and/or discontinue credit and debt instruments or other structures deployed for maintenance of certain rating levels. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are unfavorable to us. Equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders and could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our outstanding securities. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. See in Item 7 for further details. For further information on our financial strength and/or issuer ratings, see in Item 1. For further information on our letter of credit facilities, see the Letter of Credit and Revolving Credit Facilities section of in Item 7. Our ability to execute successfully our business strategy, continue to grow and innovate and offer our employees a dynamic and supportive workplace depends on the recruitment, retention and promotion of talented, agile, diverse and resilient employees at all levels of our organization. With the easing of restrictions relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have adopted a hybrid work model in most of our offices with employees returning to the office for part of the work week. The pandemic impacted employee work models and, in some cases, also impacted employee workloads and attitudes about work. We provide a work environment and culture which reflects our goal to “Enable Possibility”. We offer flexible work arrangements, when possible, for our employees globally, as well as competitive compensation packages which include participation in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the possibility of equity awards at certain job levels. Over the past few years, we have also implemented and expanded our learning programs, career leveling and employee networks, all of which we believe will help us retain talent. Our leadership and Board promote the goals of building a diverse employee population and fostering an environment that allows us to fully leverage and engage that diversity as a competitive edge which benefits both our employees and our business . While our efforts to attract, develop and retain talented employees continues to be a top priority, current job market conditions present challenges for us and may adversely impact our ability to fully realize our business strategy. Our success will depend on our ability to maintain and enhance effective operating procedures and internal controls and our ERM program. We operate within an ERM framework designed to identify, assess and monitor our risks. We consider underwriting, reserving, investment, credit and operational risk in our ERM framework. Losses, reputational damage, regulatory fines and litigation are among the adverse impacts which can arise if we fail to operate an effective ERM framework. Operational risk and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology or information security failures and failure to train employees appropriately or adequately. We continuously enhance our operating procedures and internal controls to effectively support our business and our regulatory and reporting requirements. As a result of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake or circumvention of controls. There can be no assurance that our control system will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Any ineffectiveness in our controls or procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business. For further information on our ERM framework, see in Item 1. We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations . In addition to exposure to credit risk related to our investment portfolio, reinsurance recoverables and reliance on brokers and other agents, we are exposed to credit risk in other areas of our business related to policyholders. We are exposed to credit risk in our insurance group’s surety unit where we guarantee to a third party that our policyholder will satisfy certain performance or financial obligations. If our policyholder defaults, we may suffer losses and be unable to be reimbursed by our policyholder. We are also exposed to credit risk from policyholders on smaller deductibles in other insurance group lines, such as healthcare and excess and surplus casualty. Although we have not experienced any material credit losses to date, an increased inability of our policyholders to meet their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See Our business is subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to economic trade sanctions and foreign bribery laws, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with all applicable economic sanctions and anti-bribery laws and regulations of the U.S. and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us and others who provide insurance and reinsurance include the economic trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control as well as certain laws administered by the U.S. Department of State. New sanction regimes may be initiated, or existing sanctions expanded, at any time, which can immediately impact our business activities. Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, there have been several sanctions packages imposed by the U.S., U.K. and EU which impact our business. The sanctions are complex, numerous and nuanced, requiring close review and assessment as they pertain to our business. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws such as the U.K. Bribery Act that generally bar corrupt payments or unreasonable gifts to foreign governments or officials. Although we have policies and controls in place designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, it is possible that an employee or intermediary could fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we may interpret a complex sanction in a way which may differ from a regulator. In these cases, we could be exposed to fines, criminal penalties and other sanctions. Such violations could limit our ability to conduct business and/or damage our reputation, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. New legislation or regulations relating to the U.K.’s Withdrawal from the EU could adversely affect us. The U.K. ceased to be a member state of the European Union in January 2020. Although the EU and U.K. reached a limited agreement in relation to certain matters, U.K. insurers and reinsurers no longer have automatic access to EU markets and vice versa. Our U.K. domiciled entities and our Lloyd’s Syndicates may no longer “passport” within the EU and are now part of the U.K. temporary permissions regime which allows firms to operate in the U.K. for a limited period while they seek authorization from the U.K. regulators. We have implemented changes in our operations to accommodate Brexit; however we remain subject to new proposals and regulations which may negatively impact U.K. underwriting activities in respect of EU risks and policyholders. Risks Relating to Financial Markets and Investments Adverse developments in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital; our policyholders, reinsurers and retrocessionaires may also be affected by such developments, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. Adverse developments in the financial markets, resulting from inflation, global recessionary pressures, geopolitical conflict, among other factors, has increased uncertainty levels and heightened volatility in the capital and credit markets. These developments may result in realized and unrealized losses on our investment portfolio that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. More specifically, economic conditions could also have a material impact on the frequency and severity of claims and therefore could negatively impact our underwriting returns. In addition, our policyholders, reinsurers and retrocessionaires may be affected by developments in the financial markets, which could adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us. The volatility in the financial markets could continue to significantly affect our investment returns, reported results and shareholders’ equity. The capital requirements of our businesses depend on many factors, including regulatory and rating agency requirements, the performance of our investment portfolio, our ability to write new business successfully, the frequency and severity of catastrophe events and our ability to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Disruption to the financial markets and weak economic conditions resulting from situations such as post pandemic imbalances, inflation and geopolitical conflict may adversely and materially impact our investments, financial condition and results of operation. Disruption in the financial markets and the downturn in global economic activity resulting from the geopolitical conflict, elevated financing rates, housing market declines or other macro-and micro-economic conditions could adversely affect the valuation of securities in our investment portfolio. Credit spread widening and/or equity market volatility could result in temporary or permanent impairment. Elevated levels of inflation could drive higher U.S. and global interest rates, negatively impacting asset prices, particularly in fixed income. In addition, a lack of pricing transparency, decreased market liquidity, the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. Dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results through realized losses, impairments and changes in unrealized positions in our investment portfolio. Furthermore, issuers of the investments we hold under the equity method of accounting report their financial information to us one month to three months following the end of the reporting period. Accordingly, the adverse impact of any disruptions in global financial markets on equity method income from these investments would likely not be reflected in our current quarter results and would instead be reported in the subsequent quarter. Our operating results depend in part on the performance of our investment portfolio. A significant portion of cash and invested assets held by Arch consists of fixed maturities ( 72.1% as of December 31, 2022). Although our current investment guidelines and approach stress preservation of capital, market liquidity and diversification of risk, our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations. In addition, we are subject to risks inherent in particular securities or types of securities, as well as sector concentrations. We may not be able to realize our investment objectives, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In the event that we are unsuccessful in calibrating the liquidity of our investment portfolio with our expected insurance and reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate our investments at times and prices that are not optimal, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and ability to conduct our business. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation may adversely affect our financial results. We write business on a worldwide basis, and our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the value of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The primary foreign currencies in which we operate are the Euro, the British Pound Sterling, the Australian Dollar and the Canadian Dollar. In order to minimize the possibility of losses we may suffer as a result of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our net insurance liabilities, we invest in securities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. In addition, we may replicate investment positions in foreign currencies using derivative financial instruments. Changes in the value of available-for-sale investments due to foreign currency rate movements are reflected as a direct increase or decrease to shareholders' equity and are not included in the statement of income. Uncertainty relating to the determination of LIBOR and the phasing out and replacement of LIBOR with alternative benchmark rates may adversely impact us. In order to mitigate the potential adverse effects on our cost of capital caused by the uncertainty of the timing and impact of the phase-out of LIBOR, we entered into certain amendments to our credit facilities in 2021 in order to replace the LIBOR-based benchmarks for borrowings and letters of credit denominated in British Pounds Sterling and Euros with the Sterling Overnight Index Average (“SONIA”) and the Euro Inter-bank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”), respectively, as SONIA and EURIBOR have emerged as preferred alternative benchmarks with respect to certain indebtedness and other financial instruments denominated in these currencies. Similarly, in April 2022, we entered into an amendment to our credit facilities in order to replace the LIBOR-based benchmark for borrowings and letters of credit denominated in U.S. Dollars with a rate based on Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). However, there can be no assurance that these mitigation efforts will adequately protect against increases or volatility in our cost of capital. Although we believe we have taken appropriate measures to adjust to the replacement of LIBOR, the transition from LIBOR to SOFR and other alternative reference rates may adversely impact our investment portfolio, our cost of capital and our cost of issuing Bellemeade mortgage risk transfer securities and could require changes to our current asset liability strategies. The determination of the amount of current expected CECL allowances taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. On a quarterly basis, we review our investments by applying an approach based on the CECL and whether declines in fair value below the cost basis requires an estimate of the expected credit loss. There can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of the credit loss allowance taken reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional allowance may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Further, rapidly changing and unpredictable credit and equity market conditions could materially affect the valuation of securities carried at fair value as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. Our reinsurance subsidiaries may be required to provide collateral to ceding companies, by applicable regulators, their contracts or other commercial considerations. Their ability to conduct business could be significantly and negatively affected if they are unable to do so. Arch Re Bermuda is a registered Bermuda insurance company and is not licensed or admitted as an insurer in any jurisdiction in the U.S., although Arch Re Bermuda has been approved as a “certified reinsurer” in certain U.S. states that allow reduced collateral for reinsurance ceded to such reinsurers. Arch Re Bermuda's contracts generally require it to post a letter of credit or provide other security, even in U.S. states where it has been approved for reduced collateral. State credit for reinsurance rules also generally provide that certified reinsurers such as Arch Re Bermuda must provide 100% collateral in the event their certified status is “terminated” or upon the entry of an order of rehabilitation, liquidation or conservation against a ceding insurer. Although, to date, Arch Re Bermuda has not experienced any difficulties in providing collateral when required, if we are unable to post security in the form of letters of credit or trust funds when required, the operations of Arch Re Bermuda could be significantly and negatively affected. Risks Relating to Our Mortgage Operations The ultimate performance of the Arch MI U.S. mortgage insurance portfolio remains uncertain. The mix of business in our insured loan portfolio may affect losses. The presence of multiple higher-risk characteristics in a loan materially increases the likelihood of a claim on such a loan unless there are other characteristics to mitigate the risk. The mix of higher-risk loans, including affordable housing loans which often have higher-risk characteristics, could increase losses and harm our financial performance. The geographic mix of Arch MI U.S.’s business could increase losses and harm our financial performance. Mortgage insurance premiums are set at the time coverage is procured, based in part on the expected duration of the coverage. We cannot cancel mortgage insurance coverage or adjust renewal premiums during the life of the policy. To the extent that the insured cancels coverage as a result of prior home price appreciation, the duration of coverage will be shorter, and we will receive less premium. Further, higher than anticipated claims generally cannot be offset by premium increases on policies in force or mitigated by our non-renewal or cancellation of insurance coverage. The premiums charged, and the associated investment income, may not be adequate to compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the insurance coverage provided to customers. A decrease in the amount of premium received or an increase in the number or size of claims, compared to what we anticipate, could adversely affect Arch MI U.S.’s results of operations and financial condition. The frequency and severity of claims we incur is uncertain and will depend largely on general economic factors outside of our control, including, among others, changes in unemployment, home prices and interest rates in the U.S. Inflated home prices followed by a decline in home values could significantly decrease a borrower’s equity in their home, which would limit their ability to sell the property without incurring a loss, and could increase the frequency and severity of claims. Deteriorating economic conditions in the U.S., potentially due to prolonged recessionary conditions increasing levels of unemployment and inflation, could adversely affect the performance of our U.S. mortgage insurance portfolio and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If the volume of low down payment mortgage originations declines, or if other government housing policies, practices or regulations change, the amount of mortgage insurance we write in the U.S. could decline, which would reduce our mortgage insurance revenues. The size of the U.S. mortgage insurance market depends in large part upon the volume of low down payment home mortgage originations. Factors affecting the volume of low down payment mortgage originations include, among others: restrictions on mortgage credit due to stringent underwriting standards and liquidity issues affecting lenders; changes in mortgage interest rates and home prices, and other economic conditions in the U.S. and regional economies; population trends, including the rate of household formation; and U.S. government housing policy. Increases to mortgage interest rates have materially increased financing costs, and as a result may decrease the number of qualified borrowers and the volume of low down payment mortgage originations. The private mortgage insurers’ principal government competitor is the Federal Housing Administration (“FHA”). Future changes to the FHA program, including any reduction to mortgage insurance premiums charged may negatively impact the amount of mortgage insurance we write in the U.S. The Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”) as conservator of the GSEs continues to evaluate loan level price adjustments (“LLPAs”) assessed by the GSEs when purchasing loans. Effective on April 1, 2022, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac increased upfront fees for “high-balance loans” (mortgages in excess of $647,000) and mortgages on second homes. On October 24, 2022, FHFA announced that the GSEs are eliminating upfront fees for certain first-time homebuyers, low-income borrowers, and underserved communities and is increasing fees for cash out refinance loans. On January 19, 2023, FHFA announced three new pricing grids that broadly adjusted pricing to GSE purchases. These, and future actions could cause a decline in the volume of low-down payment home mortgage purchases by the GSEs, could decrease demand for mortgage insurance, and could decrease our U.S. new insurance written and reduce mortgage insurance revenues. On June 8, 2022, the FHFA announced the GSEs release of Fannie Mae's and Freddie Mac's Equitable Housing Finance Plans for 2022-2024. These plans are designed to foster housing finance markets that provide equitable access to affordable and sustainable housing, including through the use of special purpose credit programs (“SPCPs”). SPCPs are lending programs designed to expand access to credit among disadvantaged groups to address special social needs that exist today. The Consumer Finance Protection Bureau, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and other federal agencies have issued guidance encouraging the use of SPCPs and providing assurances that properly structured SPCPs are permissible under federal law. New practices or programs implemented under the GSEs’ Equitable Housing Plans, may impact the underwriting and servicing standards on mortgages purchased by the GSEs and could increase the presence of multiple higher-risk characteristics in our insured loan portfolio. Further, the legal landscape applicable to SPCPs remains untested and loans originated under these programs could be subject to increased risk of private litigation or enforcement actions under state and federal law. Changes to the role of the GSEs in the U.S. housing market or to GSE eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition, or reduce our operating flexibility. Substantially all of Arch MI U.S.’s insurance written has been for loans sold to the GSEs. The charters of the GSEs require credit enhancement for low down payment mortgages to be eligible for purchase or guarantee by the GSEs. Any changes to the charters or statutory authorities of the GSEs would require congressional action to implement. If the charters of the GSEs were amended to change or eliminate the acceptability of private mortgage insurance, our mortgage insurance business could decline significantly. In January 2021, the U.S. Department of Treasury (the “Treasury Department”) and FHFA announced an agreement to amend the preferred stock purchase agreements between the Treasury Department and the GSEs, originally entered into in September 2008, in order to, among other things, codify several existing FHFA conservatorship practices for the GSEs and outline a plan for the Treasury Department, in consultation with FHFA, to develop a proposal for continued GSE reform. If any GSE reform is adopted, whether through legislation or administrative action, it could impact the current role of private mortgage insurance as credit enhancement, including its reduction or elimination. Passage and timing of any comprehensive GSE reform or incremental change (legislative or administrative) is uncertain, making the actual impact on the mortgage insurance industry difficult to predict. Any such changes that come to pass could have a material adverse impact on the Company. The PMIERs apply to Arch Mortgage Insurance Company and United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company, which are GSE-approved mortgage insurers (“eligible mortgage insurers”). The PMIERs impose limitations on the type of risk insured, the forms and insurance policies issued, standards for the geographic and customer diversification of risk, acceptable underwriting practices, quality assurance, loss mitigation, claims handling, standards for certain reinsurance cessions and financial requirements, among other things. The financial requirements require a mortgage insurer’s available assets, which generally include only the most liquid assets, to meet or exceed “minimum required assets” as of each quarter end. Arch MI U.S.’s minimum required assets under the PMIERs will be determined, in part, by the particular risk profiles of the loans it insures. If, absent other changes, Arch MI U.S.’s mix of business changes to include more loans with higher loan-to-value ratios or lower credit scores, it will have a higher minimum required asset amount under the PMIERs and, accordingly, be required to hold more capital in order to maintain GSE eligibility. Our eligible mortgage insurers each satisfied the PMIERs’ financial requirements as of December 31, 2022. While we intend to continue to comply with these requirements, there can be no assurance that the GSEs will not change the PMIERs or that Arch Mortgage Insurance Company or United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company will continue as eligible mortgage insurers. If either or both of the GSEs were to cease to consider Arch Mortgage Insurance Company or United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company as eligible mortgage insurers and, therefore, cease accepting our mortgage insurance products, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The implementation of the Basel III Capital Accord and FHFA’s Enterprise Capital Rule may adversely affect the use of mortgage insurance and CRT opportunities. With certain exceptions, the Basel III Rules became effective on January 1, 2014. In December 2017, the Basel Committee published final revisions to the Basel Capital Accord which is informally denominated in the U.S. as “Basel IV.” The Basel Committee expects the new rules to be fully implemented by January 2027. On September 9, 2022, the Federal banking agencies issued a statement reaffirming their commitment to implementing the 2017 revisions and stated that a request for public comment on new regulatory standards would be forthcoming. Under the Basel IV protocols, banks using the standardized approach for credit risk management will determine the risk-weight for residential mortgages based on the loan-to-value ratio at loan origination, without consideration of mortgage insurance. The U.S. regulatory agencies could determine that current U.S. rules for residential mortgages are “at least as stringent” as the Basel IV provisions, and therefore do not need to be modified. However, if U.S. regulators decide to adopt the Basel IV approach to mortgage assets, the capital relief benefits of mortgage insurance would be diminished, which could adversely affect the demand for mortgage insurance. On December 17, 2020, the FHFA published a new capital framework for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that significantly increases minimum capital requirements for these GSEs. The new rule requires each GSE to maintain both higher minimum capital ratios and capital “buffers” to avoid restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The rule also imposes a risk-weight floor of 10 percent on retained CRT positions. In a 2022 amendment, the risk-weight floor was reduced to 5 percent, and other changes were made to incentivize CRT transactions. The new framework continues to take into account the benefits of mortgage insurance, provided the mortgage insurer is compliant with the PMIERs. The amount of capital relief afforded for mortgage insurers will depend on a number of factors, including the GSEs’ determination of the creditworthiness of the mortgage insurer. It is possible that the higher capital standards imposed on the GSEs will result in increased fees for homebuyers that will reduce the demand for mortgage loans, and therefore the demand for mortgage insurance. Further, the GSEs will independently determine the creditworthiness of mortgage insurance counterparties, which could affect the competitive position of individual mortgage insurance providers. Moreover, the higher risk-capital charges for residential mortgages could be incorporated into the PMIERs standards, thereby requiring mortgage insurers to hold higher capital levels in order to be recognized as approved counterparties for the GSEs. This could have a negative impact on our return on equity. On January 4, 2023, the unified regulatory agenda issued by the Office of Management and Budget referenced that FHFA targets February 2023 for a notice of proposed rulemaking addressing capital requirements for derivatives; market risk; multifamily loans in general and multifamily loans with government subsidies specifically, and exposures of an Enterprise to the other Enterprise. There is a risk that future changes to the capital framework could adversely impact credit for credit risk transfer or the capital relief afforded for mortgage insurance. Risk Relating to Our Company and Our Shares Some of the provisions of our bye-laws and our shareholders agreement may have the effect of hindering, delaying or preventing third party takeovers or changes in management initiated by shareholders. These provisions may also prevent our shareholders from receiving premium prices for their shares in an unsolicited takeover. Some provisions of our bye-laws could have the effect of discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties or changes in management initiated by shareholders. These provisions may encourage companies interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our Board, since the Board has the authority to overrule the operation of several of the limitations. Among other things, our bye-laws provide: for a classified Board, in which the directors of the class elected at each annual general meeting holds office for a term of three years, with the term of each class expiring at successive annual general meetings of shareholders; that the number of directors is determined by the Board from time to time by a vote of the majority of the Board; that directors may only be removed for cause, and cause removal shall be deemed to exist only if the director whose removal is proposed has been convicted of a felony or been found by a court to be liable for gross negligence or misconduct in the performance of his or her duties; that the Board has the right to fill vacancies, including vacancies created by an expansion of the Board; and for limitations on a shareholder’s right to raise proposals or nominate directors at general meetings. Our bye-laws provide that certain provisions that may have anti-takeover effects may be repealed or altered only with prior Board approval and upon the affirmative vote of holders of shares representing at least 65% of the total voting power of our shares entitled generally to vote at an election of directors. The bye-laws also contain a provision limiting the rights of any U.S. person (as defined in section 7701(a)(30) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) that owns shares of Arch Capital, directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code), representing more than 9.9% of the voting power of all shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. The votes conferred by such shares of such U.S. person will be reduced by whatever amount is necessary so that after any such reduction the votes conferred by the shares of such person will constitute 9.9% of the total voting power of all shares entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. Notwithstanding this provision, the Board may make such final adjustments to the aggregate number of votes conferred by the shares of any U.S. person that the Board considers fair and reasonable in all circumstances to ensure that such votes represent 9.9% of the aggregate voting power of the votes conferred by all shares of Arch Capital entitled to vote generally at an election of directors. Arch Capital will assume that all shareholders (other than specified persons) are U.S. persons unless we receive assurance satisfactory to us that they are not U.S. persons. The bye-laws also provide that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding voting power of our shares (excluding shares owned by any person (and such person’s affiliates and associates) that is the owner of 15% or more (a “15% Holder”) of our outstanding voting shares) shall be required for various corporate actions, including: merger or consolidation of the company into a 15% Holder; sale of any or all of our assets to a 15% Holder; the issuance of voting securities to a 15% Holder; or amendment of these provisions; provided, however, the super majority vote will not apply to any transaction approved by the Board. The provisions described above may have the effect of making more difficult or discouraging unsolicited takeover bids from third parties. To the extent that these effects occur, shareholders could be deprived of opportunities to realize takeover premiums for their shares and the market price of their shares could be depressed. In addition, these provisions could also result in the entrenchment of incumbent management. There are regulatory limitations on the ownership and transfer of our common shares. The jurisdictions where we operate have laws and regulations that require regulatory approval of a change in control of an insurer or an insurer's holding company. Where such laws apply to us, there can be no effective change in our control unless the person seeking to acquire control has filed a statement with the regulators and obtained prior approval for the proposed change. Certain regulators may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding shares in an insurer or an insurer's holding company if it appears to the regulator that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. The regulator may require the shareholder to reduce its holding in the insurer or an insurer's holding company and direct, among other things, that such shareholder’s voting rights attaching to the shares in an insurer or an insurer's holding company shall not be exercisable. Arch Capital is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other distributions from its operating subsidiaries. Arch Capital is a holding company whose assets primarily consist of the shares in our subsidiaries. Generally, Arch Capital depends on its available cash resources, liquid investments and dividends or other distributions from subsidiaries to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses it may incur and any payments of dividends, redemption amounts or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred shares and common shares, and to fund the share repurchase program. The ability of our regulated insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions is subject to legislative constraints and dependent on their ability to meet applicable regulatory standards. In addition, the ability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to Arch Capital and to intermediate parent companies owned by Arch Capital could be constrained by our dependence on financial strength ratings from independent rating agencies. Our ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on the capitalization levels of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. General market conditions and unpredictable factors could adversely affect market prices for our outstanding preferred shares. There can be no assurance about the market prices for our series of preferred shares that are traded publicly. Several factors, many of which are beyond our control, will influence the fair value of our preferred shares, including, but not limited to: • whether dividends have been declared and are likely to be declared on any series of our preferred shares from time to time; • our creditworthiness, financial condition, performance and prospects; • whether the ratings on any series of our preferred shares provided by any ratings agency have changed; • the market for similar securities; and • economic, financial, geopolitical, social, regulatory or judicial events that affect us and/or the insurance or financial markets generally. Dividends on our preferred shares are non-cumulative. Dividends on our preferred shares are non-cumulative and payable only out of lawfully available funds of Arch Capital under Bermuda law. Consequently, if the Board (or a duly authorized committee of the Board) does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period with respect to any series of our preferred shares, holders of such preferred shares would not be entitled to receive any such dividend, and such unpaid dividend will not accrue and will never be payable. Arch Capital will have no obligation to pay dividends for a dividend period on or after the dividend payment date for such period if the Board (or a duly authorized committee of the Board) has not declared such dividend before the related dividend payment date; if dividends on our series F or series G preferred shares are authorized and declared with respect to any subsequent dividend period, Arch Capital will be free to pay dividends on any other series of preferred shares and/or our common shares. In the past, we have not paid dividends on our common shares. Our preferred shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness. Our preferred shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. As such, these preferred shares will rank junior to all of our indebtedness and other non-equity claims with respect to assets available to satisfy our claims, including in our liquidation. Our existing and future indebtedness may restrict payments of dividends on our preferred shares. Additionally, unlike indebtedness, where principal and interest would customarily be payable on specified due dates, in the case of preferred shares, (1) dividends are payable only if declared by the Board (or a duly authorized committee of the Board) and (2) as described under “Risks Relating to Our Company—Arch Capital is a holding company and is dependent on dividends and other distributions from its operating subsidiaries,” we are subject to certain regulatory and other constraints affecting our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. We may issue additional securities that rank equally with or senior to our series F and series G preferred shares without limitation. The issuance of securities ranking equally with or senior to our preferred shares may reduce the amount available for dividends and the amount recoverable by holders of such series in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Arch Capital. The voting rights of holders of our preferred shares are limited. Holders of our preferred shares have no voting rights with respect to matters that generally require the approval of voting shareholders. The limited voting rights of holders of our preferred shares include the right to vote as a class on certain fundamental matters that affect the preference or special rights of our preferred shares as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to each series of preferred shares. In addition, if dividends on our series F or series G preferred shares have not been declared or paid for the equivalent of six dividend payments, whether or not for consecutive dividend periods, holders of the outstanding series F or series G preferred shares will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to the Board subject to the terms and to the limited extent as set forth in the certificate of designations relating to such series of preferred shares. Risks Relating to Taxation We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. federal income taxation and/or the U.S. federal income tax liabilities of our U.S. subsidiaries may increase, including as a result of changes in tax law. Arch Capital and its non-U.S. subsidiaries intend to operate their business in a manner that will not cause them to be treated as engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. and, thus, will not be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes (other than U.S. excise taxes on insurance and reinsurance premiums and withholding taxes on certain U.S. source investment income) on their income. However, because there is uncertainty as to the activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend successfully that Arch Capital or its non-U.S. subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S., in which case our shareholders' equity and earnings could be adversely affected. Congress has been considering several legislative proposals intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of Bermuda and other non-U.S. jurisdictions. There is no assurance that any such legislative proposal will not be enacted into law or that any such enacted law would not materially increase our income tax liabilities or those of our subsidiaries. The continuing implementation of the Tax Cuts Act may have a material and adverse impact on our operations and financial condition . Certain provisions in the Tax Cuts Act could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and business operation. One such provision imposes a 10% minimum base erosion and anti-abuse tax (increased to 12.5% for taxable years after 2025) on the “modified taxable income” of a U.S. corporation (or a non-U.S. corporation engaged in a U.S. trade or business) over such corporation’s regular U.S. federal income tax, reduced by certain tax credits. The “modified taxable income” of a corporation is determined without deduction for certain payments by such corporation to its non-U.S. affiliates (including reinsurance premiums). Other provisions of the Tax Cuts Act that could have a material and adverse impact on us include a provision that defers or disallows a U.S. corporation’s deduction of interest expense to the extent such interest expense exceeds a specified percentage of such U.S. corporation’s “adjusted taxable income” and a provision that adjusts the manner in which a U.S. property and casualty insurance company computes its loss reserve. In addition, there is no assurance that subsequent changes in tax laws or regulations will not materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Proposed Treasury Regulations issued on January 24, 2022, if finalized in their current form, could (on prospective basis) cause our U.S. shareholders (including tax-exempt U.S. shareholders) to be subject to current U.S. federal income tax on the portion of our earnings attributable to certain intercompany reinsurance income (whether or not such income is distributed). Unless an exception applies, U.S. shareholders generally are required to include currently in income a portion of any RPII recognized by our foreign subsidiaries, whether or not distributed. Generally, RPII is insurance income (including reinsurance income) of a foreign corporation with respect to which the insured is a United States shareholder of the foreign corporation or a related person to such a shareholder. Under one exception to the foregoing RPII rules, U.S. shareholders are not required to include a CFC’s RPII currently in income if the CFC’s gross RPII is less than 20% of its total gross insurance income for the taxable year in question (the “RPII 20% gross income exception”). Under current law, we currently expect each of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to satisfy the RPII 20% gross income exception, and therefore we currently do not expect any U.S. shareholder to be required to currently include RPII in income (although there can be no assurance that this is or will continue be the case). However, proposed Treasury Regulations issued on January 24, 2022, if finalized in their current form, would for the first time (on a prospective basis) expand the definition of RPII to include certain intercompany insurance income (including reinsurance income) in a manner that could cause certain of our foreign subsidiaries not to satisfy the RPII 20% gross income exception. In such event, (1) all U.S. shareholders (not just 10% U.S. shareholders) would be required to include RPII in income currently, whether or not distributed, and (2) U.S. shareholders that are tax exempt entities would be required to treat such RPII inclusions as unrelated business taxable income. Current and prospective U.S. shareholders should consult their own tax advisors as to the potential impact of these recently proposed Treasury Regulations. We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 31, 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under current Bermuda law, we are not subject to tax on income, profits, withholding, capital gains or capital transfers. Furthermore, we have obtained from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, an assurance that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of the tax will not be applicable to us or our operations until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance's assurance we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after that date, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. This assurance does not, however, prevent the imposition of taxes on any person ordinarily resident in Bermuda or any company in respect of its ownership of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda. The impact of Bermuda's letter of commitment to the OECD to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda OECD has published reports and launched a global initiative among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. Bermuda was not listed in the most recent report as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard and previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices, to embrace international tax standards for transparency, to exchange information and to eliminate an environment that attracts business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Legislation enacted in Bermuda as to Economic Substance may affect our operations. Pursuant to the Economic Substance Act 2018 (as amended) of Bermuda and related regulations (the “ES Act”), which came into force on January 1, 2019, a registered entity other than an entity which is resident for tax purposes in certain jurisdictions outside Bermuda (“non-resident entity”) that carries on as a business any one or more of the “relevant activities” referred to in the ES Act must comply with economic substance requirements. The ES Act may require in-scope Bermuda entities which are engaged in such “relevant activities” to be directed and managed in Bermuda, have an adequate level of qualified employees in Bermuda, incur an adequate level of annual expenditure in Bermuda, maintain physical offices and premises in Bermuda or perform core income-generating activities in Bermuda. The list of “relevant activities” includes carrying on any one or more of the following activities: banking, insurance, fund management, financing, leasing, headquarters, shipping, distribution and service center, intellectual property and holding entities. An in-scope Bermuda entity that carries on a relevant activity is obliged under the ES Act to file a declaration with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies on an annual basis containing certain information. Any entity found to be lacking adequate economic substance may be fined or ordered by a court to take action to remedy such failure (or face being struck off the companies register). As a result, there is a risk that non-compliance with its economic substance requirements under the ES Act could require Arch to enhance its infrastructure in Bermuda, and this may result in some additional operational expenditures, increased tax liabilities and/or compliance costs for Arch. We may become subject to increased taxation in Bermuda and other countries as a result of the OECD's plan on “Base erosion and profit shifting.” The OECD, with the support of the G20, initiated the “base erosion and profit shifting” (“BEPS”) project in 2013 in response to concerns that changes are needed to international tax laws to address situations where multinationals may pay little or no tax in certain jurisdictions by shifting profits away from jurisdictions where the activities creating those profits may take place. In November 2015, “final reports” were approved for adoption by the G20 finance ministers. The final reports provide the basis for international standards for corporate taxation that are designed to prevent, among other things, the artificial shifting of income to tax havens and low-tax jurisdictions, the erosion of the tax base through interest deductions on intercompany debt and the artificial avoidance of permanent establishments ( i.e. , tax nexus with a jurisdiction). Legislation to adopt and implement these standards, including country by country reporting, has been enacted or is currently under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. As a result, our income may be taxed in jurisdictions where it is not currently taxed and at higher rates of tax than currently taxed, which may substantially increase our effective tax rate. Also, the continued adoption of these standards may increase the complexity and costs associated with tax compliance and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In May 2019, the OECD published a “Programme of Work,” divided into two pillars, which is designed to address the tax challenges created by an increasing digitalized economy. Pillar I addresses the broader challenge of a digitalized economy and focuses on the allocation of group profits among taxing jurisdictions based on a market-based concept rather than historical “permanent establishment” concepts. In January 2020, the OECD released a statement excluding most financial services activities, including insurance activities, from the scope of the profit reallocation mechanism in Pillar I. The OECD statement cited the presence of commercial (rather than consumer) customers as grounds for the carve-out, but also acknowledged that a “compelling case” could be made that the consumer-facing business lines of insurance companies should be excluded from the scope of Pillar I given the impact of regulations and licensing requirements that typically ensure that residual profits are largely realized in local customer markets. However, profits from “unregulated elements of the financial services sector” remain in scope but only where revenue exceeds €20 billion. Pillar II addresses the remaining BEPS risk of profit shifting to entities in low tax jurisdictions by introducing a global minimum tax (15%) and a proposed tax on base eroding payments, which would operate through a denial of a deduction or imposition of source-based taxation (including withholding tax) on certain payments. In October 2021, 136 jurisdictions agreed on a two-pillar solution to address the tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy. In December 2021, the OECD released Model Rules for implementation of Pillar II followed by the release of detailed commentary in March 2022. Further details of the Implementation Package and related topics is expected in early 2023. The OECD expects the rules to be enacted into domestic legislation in 2023 in order for the rules to be effective from 2023 (with a key element of the rules, the UTPR, deferred for one year until 2025). On December 15, 2022, the EU formally adopted Council Directive on ensuring a global minimum level of taxation for groups operating in the Union. Member States are required to transpose the Directive into their domestic law by December 31, 2023.The OECD expects the rules to be enacted into domestic legislation in 2023 in order for the rules to be effective from 2023 (with a key element of the rules, the UTPR, deferred for one year until 2025). The adoption of these rules may increase the complexity and costs associated with tax compliance and may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Application of the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directives As part of the BEPS project, the EU Council adopted on 12 July 2016 Council Directive (EU) 2016/1164 (“ATAD I”), as amended by Council Directive (EU) 2017/952 (“ATAD II”, together with ATAD I, “ATAD”), to provide for minimum standards across EU Member States for tackling aggressive tax planning involving hybrid tax mismatches and interest deductibility. ATAD I was required to be transposed into domestic Member State law with effect from January 1, 2019, whilst ATAD II was required to be transposed into domestic Member State law with effect from January 1, 2020 (with an exception in respect of reverse hybrid mismatch provisions, which will take effect on January 1, 2022). On December 22, 2021, the European Commission published a proposal for a Directive (“ATAD III”) laying down rules to prevent the misuse of shell entities for improper tax purposes and amending the Directive on administrative cooperation (Directive 2011/16/EU). If adopted, ATAD III will be effective from January 1, 2024. ATAD and ATAD III could result in increased tax liabilities and/or compliance costs and administrative burden for us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is a discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Comparisons between 2021 and 2020 have been omitted from this Form 10-K, but may be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K year ended December 31, 2021 filed with the SEC. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements which involve inherent risks and uncertainties. All statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on our current assessment of risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements and, therefore, undue reliance should not be placed on them. Important factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated in such statements are discussed in this report, including the sections entitled “ ,” and “ .” This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto presented under . Tabular amounts are in U.S. Dollars in thousands, except share amounts, unless otherwise noted. OVERVIEW Arch Capital Group Ltd. (“Arch Capital” and, together with its subsidiaries, “we” or “us”) is a publicly listed Bermuda exempted company with approximately $15.6 billion in capital at December 31, 2022 and is part of the S&P 500 index. Through operations in Bermuda, the United States, United Kingdom, Europe, Canada and Australia, we write specialty lines of property and casualty insurance and reinsurance, as well as mortgage insurance and reinsurance, on a worldwide basis. It is our belief that our underwriting platform, our experienced management team and our strong capital base have enabled us to establish a strong presence in the insurance and reinsurance markets. The worldwide property casualty insurance and reinsurance industry is highly competitive and has traditionally been subject to an underwriting cycle. In that cycle, a “hard” market is evidenced by high premium rates, restrictive underwriting standards, narrow terms and conditions, and strong underwriting profits for insurers. A “hard” market typically attracts new capital and new entrants to the market and is eventually followed by a “soft” market, which has characteristics of low premium rates, relaxed underwriting standards, broader terms and conditions, and lower underwriting profits for insurers. Market conditions in the property and casualty arena may affect, among other things, the demand for our products, our ability to increase premium rates, the terms and conditions of the insurance policies we write, changes in the products offered by us or changes in our business strategy. The financial results of the property casualty insurance and reinsurance industry are influenced by factors such as the frequency and/or severity of claims and losses, including natural disasters or other catastrophic events, variations in interest rates and financial markets, changes in the legal, regulatory and judicial environments, inflationary pressures and general economic conditions. These factors influence, among other things, the demand for insurance or reinsurance, the supply of which is generally related to the total capital of competitors in the market. Mortgage insurance and reinsurance is subject to similar cycles to property casualty except that they have historically been more dependent on macroeconomic conditions. CURRENT OUTLOOK As we head into 2023, our objective remains the same, to deliver long term value for our shareholders. Underwriting discipline is core to our culture and we are committed to agile cycle management with a focus on risk-adjusted returns. 2022 was our third consecutive year of sustained premium and revenue growth, supporting stronger and more stable earnings power for the near term. Reinsurance segment’s net premiums written grew 51% as the team seized on market dislocations while our insurance segment grew a robust 21%. We continue to see a broad array of opportunities to allocate capital where rates and terms and conditions allow for growth in attractive returns. We continue to execute our cycle management strategy by actively allocating capital across a diversified, specialty portfolio where rates allow for returns that are higher than our cost of capital. While we continue to allocate more capital to our property and casualty segments, it is important to note that we have capitalized on attractive returns from our mortgage segment with $1.3 billion of underwriting income in 2022. The catastrophic activity in 2022 has significantly increased pressure on property catastrophe markets, which could have a ripple effect across all property and casualty lines. As a result, we continue to show improved underwriting margins, partially due to the compounding of rate-on-rate increases and the rebalancing of our mix of business. We believe that this proven strategy of protecting capital through soft markets and increasing writings in hard markets gives us the best chance to generate superior risk adjusted returns over time. In reinsurance, pricing for the January 1 renewals was strong. Property catastrophe pricing and terms both improved, leading to the effective rate changes in the 30% to 50% range. We anticipate that these trends will continue to the mid-year property catastrophe renewal period and should translate to strong property growth in 2023. As long as rate increases support returns above our required thresholds, we expect to continue to grow our writings. Rate improvements have enabled us to continue to expand writings in our property casualty segments. In insurance, underwriting conditions remain opportunistic as pricing discipline, terms and conditions, and limits management are stable across most lines. This stability, combined with the uncertainties in the insurance market, should keep the market disciplined and sustain rate increases in most lines of business. Our specialty business in the U.K. and the U.S. operations benefited from growth in professional liability, including cyber insurance, as well as travel where we believe relative returns are attractive. Inflation continues to be a focus for our industry. We proactively analyze available data and we incorporate emerging trends into our pricing and reserving. We believe that this discipline, coupled with increases in future investment returns and prudent reserving, helps us somewhat mitigate inflation’s impact. In mortgage, we continue to be thoughtful in how we manage our portfolio and, because of our diversified model, we have the ability to take a measured view of the business as just one component of our diversified enterprise. Our mortgage business continues to deliver consistent underwriting results, once again demonstrating its sustainable earnings model. Although higher interest rates affected new loan origination volume, our U.S. primary mortgage insurance in force grew to nearly $296 billion, reflecting a higher persistency rate. The credit quality of homebuyers remains excellent and we believe our portfolio is well positioned for a variety of economic scenarios. We remain committed to providing solutions across many offerings as the marketplace evolves, including the mortgage credit risk transfer programs initiated by government sponsored enterprises, or (“GSEs”). In addition, we have entered into aggregate excess of loss mortgage reinsurance agreements with various special purpose reinsurance companies domiciled in Bermuda and have issued mortgage insurance linked notes, increasing our protection for mortgage tail risk. The Bellemeade structures provided approximately $4.0 billion of aggregate reinsurance coverage at December 31, 2022. FINANCIAL MEASURES Management uses the following three key financial indicators in evaluating our performance and measuring the overall growth in value generated for Arch Capital’s common shareholders: Book Value per Share Book value per share represents total common shareholders’ equity available to Arch divided by the number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding. Management uses growth in book value per share as a key measure of the value generated for our common shareholders each period and believes that book value per share is the key driver of Arch Capital’s share price over time. Book value per share is impacted by, among other factors, our underwriting results, investment returns and share repurchase activity, which has an accretive or dilutive impact on book value per share depending on the purchase price. Book value per share was $32.62 at December 31, 2022, a 2.8% decrease from $33.56 at December 31, 2021. The decline in 2022 reflected negative total return on investments driven by rising interest rates on fixed maturities. Operating Return on Average Common Equity Operating return on average common equity (“Operating ROAE”) represents annualized after-tax operating income available to Arch common shareholders divided by average common shareholders’ equity available to Arch during the period. After-tax operating income available to Arch common shareholders, a “non-GAAP measure” as defined in the SEC rules, represents net income available to Arch common shareholders, excluding net realized gains or losses (which includes changes in the allowance for credit losses on financial assets and net impairment losses recognized in earnings), equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net foreign exchange gains or losses, transaction costs and other, loss on redemption of preferred shares and income taxes. Management uses Operating ROAE as a key measure of the return generated to Arch common shareholders. See “Comment on Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Our annualized net income return on average common equity was 11.6% for 2022, compared to 16.7% for 2021, with the lower return in 2022 primarily resulting from net realized losses and a lower level of income from equity method investments. Our Operating ROAE was 14.8% for 2022, compared to 11.5% for 2021, with the higher return in 2022 primarily resulting from strong underwriting performance and growth in net investment income, reflecting higher yields available on fixed income securities. Total Return on Investments Total return on investments includes investment income, equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net realized gains or losses and the change in unrealized gains or losses generated by Arch’s investment portfolio. Total return is calculated on a pre-tax basis before investment expenses, excluding amounts reflected in the ‘other’ segment, and reflects the effect of financial market conditions along with foreign currency fluctuations. Management uses total return on investments as a key measure of the return generated for Arch common shareholders on the capital held in the business, and compares the return generated by our investment portfolio against benchmark returns. See The following table summarizes the pre-tax total return (before investment expenses) of investments held by Arch compared to the benchmark return (both based in U.S. Dollars) against which we measured our portfolio during the periods: (1) Our investment expenses were approximately 0.28% and 0.32%, respectively, of average invested assets in 2022 and 2021. Total return for the 2022 period reflected rising interest rates on fixed maturities and weak equity markets. The overall position of our investment portfolio remains relatively unchanged as we remain cautious relative to duration, credit and equity risk. The benchmark return index is a customized combination of indices intended to approximate a target portfolio by asset mix and average credit quality while also matching the approximate estimated duration and currency mix of our insurance and reinsurance liabilities. Although the estimated duration and average credit quality of this index will move as the duration and rating of its constituent securities change, generally we do not adjust the composition of the benchmark return index except to incorporate changes to the mix of liability currencies and durations noted above. The benchmark return index should not be interpreted as expressing a preference for or aversion to any particular sector or sector weight. The index is intended solely to provide, unlike many master indices that change based on the size of their constituent indices, a relatively stable basket of investable indices. At December 31, 2022, the benchmark return index had an average credit quality of “Aa3” by Moody’s, an estimated duration of 3.16 years. The benchmark return index included weightings to the following indices: COMMENT ON NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Throughout this filing, we present our operations in the way we believe will be the most meaningful and useful to investors, analysts, rating agencies and others who use our financial information in evaluating the performance of our company. This presentation includes the use of after-tax operating income available to Arch common shareholders, which is defined as net income available to Arch common shareholders, excluding net realized gains or losses (which includes changes in the allowance for credit losses on financial assets and net impairment losses recognized in earnings), equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net foreign exchange gains or losses, transaction costs and other, loss on redemption of preferred shares and income taxes, and the use of annualized operating return on average common equity. The presentation of after-tax operating income available to Arch common shareholders and annualized operating return on average common equity are non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Regulation G. The reconciliation of such measures to net income available to Arch common shareholders and annualized net income return on average common equity (the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures) in accordance with Regulation G is included under “Results of Operations” below. We believe that net realized gains or losses, equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net foreign exchange gains or losses and transaction costs and other in any particular period are not indicative of the performance of, or trends in, our business. Although net realized gains or losses, equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method and net foreign exchange gains or losses are an integral part of our operations, the decision to realize these items are independent of the insurance underwriting process and result, in large part, from general economic and financial market conditions. Furthermore, certain users of our financial information believe that, for many companies, the timing of the realization of investment gains or losses is largely opportunistic. In addition, changes in the allowance for credit losses and net impairment losses recognized in earnings on the Company’s investments represent other-than-temporary declines in expected recovery values on securities without actual realization. The use of the equity method on certain of our investments in certain funds that invest in fixed maturity securities is driven by the ownership structure of such funds (either limited partnerships or limited liability companies). In applying the equity method, these investments are initially recorded at cost and are subsequently adjusted based on our proportionate share of the net income or loss of the funds (which include changes in the market value of the underlying securities in the funds). This method of accounting is different from the way we account for our other investments and the timing of the recognition of equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method may differ from gains or losses in the future upon sale or maturity of such investments. Transaction costs and other include advisory, financing, legal, severance, incentive compensation and other transaction costs related to acquisitions. We believe that transaction costs and other, due to their non-recurring nature, are not indicative of the performance of, or trends in, our business performance. The loss on redemption of preferred shares related to the redemption of the Company’s preferred shares had no impact on shareholders' equity or cash flows. Due to these reasons noted above, we exclude net realized gains or losses, equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net foreign exchange gains or losses, transaction costs and other and loss on redemption of preferred shares from the calculation of after-tax operating income available to Arch common shareholders. We believe that showing net income available to Arch common shareholders exclusive of the items referred to above reflects the underlying fundamentals of our business since we evaluate the performance of and manage our business to produce an underwriting profit. In addition to presenting net income available to Arch common shareholders, we believe that this presentation enables investors and other users of our financial information to analyze our performance in a manner similar to how management analyzes performance. We also believe that this measure follows industry practice and, therefore, allows the users of financial information to compare our performance with our industry peer group. We believe that the equity analysts and certain rating agencies that follow us and the insurance industry as a whole generally exclude these items from their analyses for the same reasons. Our segment information includes the presentation of consolidated underwriting income or loss and a subtotal of underwriting income or loss before the contribution from the ‘other’ segment. Such measures represent the pre-tax profitability of our underwriting operations and include net premiums earned plus other underwriting income, less losses and loss adjustment expenses, acquisition expenses and other operating expenses. Other operating expenses include those operating expenses that are incremental and/or directly attributable to our individual underwriting operations. Underwriting income or loss does not incorporate items included in our corporate segment. While these measures are presented in to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8, they are considered non-GAAP financial measures when presented elsewhere on a consolidated basis. The reconciliations of underwriting income or loss to income before income taxes (the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure) on a consolidated basis and a subtotal before the contribution from the ‘other’ segment, in accordance with Regulation G, is shown in to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. We measure segment performance for our three underwriting segments based on underwriting income or loss. We do not manage our assets by underwriting segment, with the exception of goodwill and intangible assets, and, accordingly, investment income, income from operating affiliates and other non-underwriting related items are not allocated to each underwriting segment. Along with consolidated underwriting income, we provide a subtotal of underwriting income or loss before the contribution from the ‘other’ segment. Through June 30, 2021, the ‘other’ segment included the results of Somers Holdings Ltd. (formerly Watford Holdings Ltd.). Somers Holdings Ltd. is the parent of Somers Re Ltd., a multi-line Bermuda reinsurance company (together with Somers Holdings Ltd., “Somers”). Pursuant to GAAP, Somers was considered a variable interest entity and we concluded that we were the primary beneficiary of Somers. As such, we consolidated the results of Somers in our consolidated financial statements through June 30, 2021. In the 2020 fourth quarter, Arch Capital, Somers, and Greysbridge Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arch Capital, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the “Merger Agreement”). Arch Capital assigned its rights under the Merger Agreement to Greysbridge Holdings Ltd. (“Greysbridge”). The merger and the related Greysbridge equity financing closed on July 1, 2021. Effective July 1, 2021, Somers is wholly owned by Greysbridge, and Greysbridge is owned 40% by Arch and 30% by certain funds managed by Kelso and 30% by certain funds managed by Warburg. Based on the governing documents of Greysbridge, we concluded that, while we retain significant influence over Greysbridge, Greysbridge does not constitute a variable interest entity. Accordingly, effective July 1, 2021, we no longer consolidate the results of Somers in our consolidated financial statements and footnotes. See and to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on Somers. Our presentation of segment information includes the use of a current year loss ratio which excludes favorable or adverse development in prior year loss reserves. This ratio is a non-GAAP financial measure as defined in Regulation G. The reconciliation of such measure to the loss ratio (the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure) in accordance with Regulation G is shown on the individual segment pages. Management utilizes the current year loss ratio in its analysis of the underwriting performance of each of our underwriting segments. Total return on investments includes investment income, equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net realized gains or losses (excluding changes in the allowance for credit losses on non-investment related financial assets) and the change in unrealized gains or losses generated by Arch’s investment portfolio. Total return is calculated on a pre-tax basis and before investment expenses, excludes amounts reflected in the ‘other’ segment, and reflects the effect of financial market conditions along with foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, total return incorporates the timing of investment returns during the periods. There is no directly comparable GAAP financial measure for total return. Management uses total return on investments as a key measure of the return generated to Arch common shareholders on the capital held in the business, and compares the return generated by our investment portfolio against benchmark returns which we measured our portfolio against during the periods. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes our consolidated financial data, including a reconciliation of net income available to Arch common shareholders to after-tax operating income available to Arch common shareholders. See (1) Income tax on net realized gains or losses, equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, net foreign exchange gains or losses and transaction costs and other reflects the relative mix reported by jurisdiction and the varying tax rates in each jurisdiction. Segment Information We classify our businesses into three underwriting segments – insurance, reinsurance and mortgage – and two operating segments – corporate and ‘other.’ Our insurance, reinsurance and mortgage segments each have managers who are responsible for the overall profitability of their respective segments and who are directly accountable to our chief operating decision makers, the Chief Executive Officer of Arch Capital, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Arch Capital and the President and Chief Underwriting Officer of Arch Capital. The chief operating decision makers do not assess performance, measure return on equity or make resource allocation decisions on a line of business basis. Management measures segment performance for our three underwriting segments based on underwriting income or loss. We do not manage our assets by underwriting segment, with the exception of goodwill and intangible assets and accordingly, investment income is not allocated to each underwriting segment. We determined our reportable segments using the management approach described in accounting guidance regarding disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those used for the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Intersegment business is allocated to the segment accountable for the underwriting results. Insurance Segment The following tables set forth our insurance segment’s underwriting results: The insurance segment consists of our insurance underwriting units which offer specialty product lines on a worldwide basis, as described in to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Net Premiums Written . The following tables set forth our insurance segment’s net premiums written by major line of business: Net premiums written by the insurance segment were 21.0% higher in 2022 than in 2021. The increase in net premiums written reflected growth in professional lines and in property, primarily due to rate increases, new business opportunities and growth in existing accounts, and in travel, primarily due to new business and growth in existing accounts. Net Premiums Earned . The following tables set forth our insurance segment’s net premiums earned by major line of business: Net premiums written are primarily earned on a pro rata basis over the terms of the policies for all products, usually 12 months. Net premiums earned by the insurance segment were 25.7% higher in 2022 than in 2021, reflecting changes in net premiums written over the previous five quarters. Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses . The table below shows the components of the insurance segment’s loss ratio: Current Year Loss Ratio . The insurance segment’s current year loss ratio was 3.4 points lower in 2022 than in 2021. The 2022 loss ratio included 5.2 points of current year catastrophic event activity, primarily related to Hurricane Ian, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and other natural catastrophes, compared to 5.6 points in 2021, primarily related to Hurricane Ida and winter storms Uri and Viola. The balance of the change in the 2022 loss ratios resulted, in part, from changes in mix of business. Prior Period Reserve Development . The insurance segment’s net favorable development was $25.3 million, or 0.6 points, for 2022, compared to $16.2 million, or 0.4 points, for 2021. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information about the insurance segment’s prior year reserve development. Underwriting Expenses . The insurance segment’s underwriting expense ratio was 34.0% in 2022, compared to 32.1% in 2021, with the increase primarily due to changing mix of business and growth in lines with higher acquisition costs. Reinsurance Segment The following tables set forth our reinsurance segment’s underwriting results: The reinsurance segment consists of our reinsurance underwriting units which offer specialty product lines on a worldwide basis, as described in to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Net Premiums Written . The following tables set forth our reinsurance segment’s net premiums written by major line of business: Net premiums written by the reinsurance segment were 51.3% higher in 2022 than in 2021. The growth in net premiums written reflected increases in most lines of business, primarily due to growth in existing accounts, new business, and rate increases. The 2022 fourth quarter was affected by a few non-recurring transactions, primarily impacting the other specialty line of business. Net Premiums Earned . The following tables set forth our reinsurance segment’s net premiums earned by major line of business: Net premiums earned in 2022 were 39.4% higher than in 2021, reflecting changes in net premiums written over the previous five quarters, including the mix and type of business written. Other Underwriting Income (Loss). Other underwriting income in 2022 was $4.9 million, compared to $3.7 million in 2021. Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses . The table below shows the components of the reinsurance segment’s loss ratio: Current Year Loss Ratio . The reinsurance segment’s current year loss ratio was 4.4 points lower in 2022 than in 2021. The 2022 loss ratio included 13.9 points for current year catastrophic event activity, primarily related to Hurricane Ian, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and other global events, compared to 16.5 points in 2021. The balance of the change in the 2022 current year loss ratio resulted, in part, from the effect of rate increases, changes in mix of business and the level of attritional losses. Prior Period Reserve Development . The reinsurance segment’s net favorable development was $191.6 million, or 4.8 points, for 2022, compared to $178.8 million, or 6.3 points, for 2021, See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information about the reinsurance segment’s prior year reserve development. Underwriting Expenses . The underwriting expense ratio for the reinsurance segment was 27.3% in 2022, compared to 26.4% in 2021, with the increase primarily resulting from changes in mix of business to lines with higher acquisition costs and expenses related to favorable development of prior year loss reserves. Mortgage Segment The following tables set forth our mortgage segment’s underwriting results. Premiums Written . The following table sets forth our mortgage segment’s net premiums written by underwriting location ( i.e. , where the business is underwritten): Gross premiums written by the mortgage segment in 2022 were 3.5% lower than in 2021. The reduction in gross premiums written primarily reflected a lower U.S. primary mortgage insurance single premium volume and a decrease in monthly premiums. Net premiums written for 2022 were 10.2% lower than in the 2021 period. Net premiums written for the 2022 period reflected a higher level of premiums ceded than in the 2021 period. The persistency rate of the U.S. primary portfolio of mortgage loans was 79.5% at December 31, 2022 compared to 62.4% at December 31, 2021, with the increase primarily reflecting a lower level of refinancing activity due to a higher interest rate environment. The persistency rate represents the percentage of mortgage insurance in force at the beginning of a 12-month period that remains in force at the end of such period. Net Premiums Earned . The following table sets forth our mortgage segment’s net premiums earned by underwriting location ( i.e. , where the business is underwritten): Net premiums earned for 2022 were 9.7% lower than in 2021 and reflected a decline in monthly premiums and an increase in ceded premiums earned, partially offset by growth in credit risk transfer business. Other Underwriting Income . Other underwriting income, which is primarily related to GSE risk-sharing transactions and our whole mortgage loan purchase and sell program, was $8.4 million for 2022, compared to $17.7 million for 2021. Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses . The table below shows the components of the mortgage segment’s loss ratio: Unlike property and casualty business for which we estimate ultimate losses on premiums earned, losses on mortgage insurance business are only recorded at the time a borrower is delinquent on their mortgage, in accordance with primary mortgage insurance industry practice. Because our primary mortgage insurance reserving process does not take into account the impact of future losses from loans that are not delinquent, mortgage insurance loss reserves are not an estimate of ultimate losses. In addition to establishing loss reserves for delinquent loans, under GAAP, we are required to establish a premium deficiency reserve for our mortgage insurance products if the amount of expected future losses and maintenance costs exceeds expected future premiums, existing reserves and the anticipated investment income for such product. We assess the need for a premium deficiency reserve on a quarterly basis and perform a full analysis annually. No such reserve was established during 2022 or 2021. Current Year Loss Ratio . The mortgage segment’s current year loss ratio was 2.2 points higher in 2022 compared to 2021. The higher current year loss ratio for the 2022 period reflected a lower level of premiums earned in the U.S. primary mortgage insurance business combined with an increase in new delinquencies as well as an increase in estimated claim rates. The percentage of loans in default on U.S. primary mortgage insurance decreased from 2.36% at December 31, 2021 to 1.77% at December 31, 2022. We insure mortgages for homes in areas that have been impacted by catastrophic events. Generally, mortgage insurance losses occur only when a credit event occurs and, following a physical damage event, when the home is restored to pre-storm condition. Our ultimate claims exposure will depend on the number of delinquency notices received and the ultimate claim rate related to such notices. In the event of natural disasters, cure rates are influenced by the adequacy of homeowners and flood insurance carried on a related property, and a borrower's access to aid from government entities and private organizations, in addition to other factors which generally impact cure rates in unaffected areas. Prior Period Reserve Development . The mortgage segment’s net favorable development was $554.1 million, or 47.8 points, for 2022, compared to $169.6 million, or 13.2 points, for 2021. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for information about the mortgage segment’s prior year reserve development. Underwriting Expenses . The underwriting expense ratio for the mortgage segment was 20.3% for 2022, compared to 22.7% for 2021, with the decrease primarily due to lower acquisition expenses on Australian mortgage insurance following the acquisition of Westpac LMI in the 2021 third quarter and profit commissions adjustments related to favorable development of prior year loss reserves. Such amounts were partially offset by a lower level of net premiums earned in the U.S. primary mortgage insurance business. Corporate Segment The corporate segment results include net investment income, net realized gains or losses, equity in net income or loss of investments accounted for using the equity method, other income (loss), corporate expenses, transaction costs and other, amortization of intangible assets, interest expense, net foreign exchange gains or losses, income taxes, income from operating affiliates and items related to our non-cumulative preferred shares. Such amounts exclude the results of the ‘other’ segment. Net Investment Income. The components of net investment income were derived from the following sources: (1)    Amounts include dividends and other distributions on investment funds, term loan investments, funds held balances, cash balances and other. (2)    Investment expenses were approximately 0.28% of average invested assets for 2022, compared to 0.32% for 2021. The pre-tax investment income yield was 1.99% for 2022, compared to 1.41% for 2021. The higher level of net investment income for 2022 compared to 2021 reflected higher yields available in the financial markets. The pre-tax investment income yields were calculated based on amortized cost. Yields on future investment income may vary based on financial market conditions, investment allocation decisions and other factors. Net Realized Gains (Losses). We recorded net realized losses of $662.7 million for 2022, compared to net realized gains of $299.2 million for 2021. Currently, our portfolio is actively managed to maximize total return within certain guidelines. The effect of financial market movements on the investment portfolio will directly impact net realized gains or losses as the portfolio is rebalanced. Net realized gains or losses from the sale of fixed maturities primarily results from our decisions to reduce credit exposure, to change duration targets, to rebalance our portfolios or due to relative value determinations. Net realized gains or losses also include realized and unrealized contract gains and losses on our derivative instruments, changes in the fair value of assets accounted for using the fair value option and in the fair value of equities, along with changes in the allowance for credit losses on financial assets and net impairment losses recognized in earnings. See and to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Equity in Net Income (Loss) of Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method. We recorded $115.9 million of equity in net income related to investments accounted for using the equity method for 2022, compared to $366.4 million for 2021. Investments accounted for using the equity method totaled $3.8 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $3.1 billion at December 31, 2021. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information. Other Income (Loss) Other loss for the 2022 period was $26.2 million, compared to other income of $10.2 million for the 2021 period. Amounts in both periods primarily reflect changes in the cash surrender value of our investment in corporate-owned life insurance. Corporate Expenses. Corporate expenses were $94.4 million for 2022, compared to $77.1 million for 2021. Such amounts primarily represent certain holding company costs necessary to support our worldwide operations and costs associated with operating as a publicly traded company. Transaction Costs and Other. Transaction costs and other were $1.1 million for the 2022 period consistent with $1.1 million for 2021. Amounts in both periods are primarily related to acquisition activity. Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets for 2022 was $106.2 million, compared to $82.1 million for 2021. Amounts in 2022 and 2021 primarily related to amortization of finite-lived intangible assets. The increase in amortization of intangible assets expense was a result of acquisitions closed during the 2021 period. See Interest Expense . Interest expense was $130.3 million for 2022, compared to $131.1 million for 2021. Interest expense primarily reflects amounts related to our outstanding senior notes. Net Foreign Exchange Gains or Losses. Net foreign exchange gains for 2022 were $100.9 million, compared to net foreign exchange gains for 2021 of $42.9 million. Amounts in such periods were primarily unrealized and resulted from the effects of revaluing our net insurance liabilities required to be settled in foreign currencies at each balance sheet date. Income Tax Expense. Our income tax provision on income before income taxes resulted in an expense of 5.1% for 2022, compared to an expense of 5.6% for 2021. The effective tax rate for the 2022 period included discrete income tax benefits of $40.6 million, compared to benefits of $39.3 million for 2021. The discrete tax items in both periods primarily related to the release of valuation allowances on certain deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rate fluctuates from year to year consistent with the relative mix of income or loss reported by jurisdiction and the varying tax rates in each jurisdiction. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a reconciliation of the difference between the provision for income taxes and the expected tax provision at the weighted average statutory tax rate for 2022 and 2021. Income (Loss) from Operating Affiliates. We recorded $73.9 million of net income from our operating affiliates in the 2022 period, compared to income of $264.7 million in the 2021 period. Results for the 2021 period included a one-time gain of $95.7 million recognized from the Company’s investment in Greysbridge and a one-time gain of $74.5 million recognized from the Company’s investment in Coface SA (“Coface”), a France-based leader in the global trade credit insurance market. Loss on Redemption of Preferred Shares. In 2021, we redeemed all 5.25% Series E preferred shares and recorded a loss of $15.1 million to remove original issuance costs related to the redeemed shares from additional paid-in capital. Such adjustment had no impact on total shareholders’ equity or cash flows. SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make many estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities (including reserves), revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, insurance and other reserves, reinsurance recoverables, allowance for current expected credit losses, investment valuations, goodwill and intangible assets, bad debts, income taxes, contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience, where possible, and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, which form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results will differ from these estimates and such differences may be material. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect significant estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Loss Reserves We are required by applicable insurance laws and regulations and GAAP to establish reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, or “Loss Reserves”, that arise from the business we underwrite. Loss Reserves for our insurance, reinsurance and mortgage operations are balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of future amounts required to pay losses and loss adjustment expenses for insured or reinsured events which have occurred at or before the balance sheet date. Loss Reserves do not reflect contingency reserve allowances to account for future loss occurrences. Losses arising from future events will be estimated and recognized at the time the losses are incurred and could be substantial. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our reserving process. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, our Loss Reserves, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, by type and by operating segment were as follows: At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the insurance segment’s Loss Reserves by major line of business, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, were as follows: At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the reinsurance segment’s Loss Reserves by major line of business, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, were as follows: At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the mortgage segment’s Loss Reserves by major line of business, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, were as follows: (1)    At December 31, 2022, 33.8% of total net reserves represent policy years 2012 and prior and the remainder from later policy years. At December 31, 2021, 27.9% of total net reserves represent policy years 2012 and prior and the remainder from later policy years. Potential Variability in Loss Reserves The following tables summarize the effect of reasonably likely scenarios on the key actuarial assumptions used to estimate our Loss Reserves, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, at December 31, 2022 by underwriting segment and reserving lines. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a description of the lines of business included in each reserving line. The scenarios shown in the tables summarize the effect of (i) changes to the expected loss ratio selections used at December 31, 2022, which represent loss ratio point increases or decreases to the expected loss ratios used, and (ii) changes to the loss development patterns used in our reserving process at December 31, 2022, which represent claims reporting that is either slower or faster than the reporting patterns used. We believe that the illustrated sensitivities are indicative of the potential variability inherent in the estimation process of those parameters. The results show the impact of varying each key actuarial assumption using the chosen sensitivity on our IBNR reserves, on a net basis and across all accident years. It is not necessarily appropriate to sum the total impact for a specific factor or the total impact for a specific business category as the business categories are not perfectly correlated. In addition, the potential variability shown in the tables above are reasonably likely scenarios of changes in our key assumptions at December 31, 2022 and are not meant to be a “best case” or “worst case” series of outcomes and therefore, it is possible that future variations may be more or less than the amounts set forth above. For our mortgage segment, we considered the sensitivity of loss reserve estimates at December 31, 2022 by assessing the potential changes resulting from a parallel shift in severity and default to claim rate. For example, assuming all other factors remain constant, for every one percentage point change in primary claim severity (which we estimate to be approximately 30% of the unpaid principal balance at December 31, 2022), we estimated that our loss reserves would change by approximately $21.0 million at December 31, 2022. For every one percentage point change in our primary net default to claim rate (which we estimate to be approximately 37% at December 31, 2022), we estimated a $17.0 million change in our loss reserves at December 31, 2022. Simulation Results In order to illustrate the potential volatility in our Loss Reserves, we used a Monte Carlo simulation approach to simulate a range of results based on various probabilities. Both the probabilities and related modeling are subject to inherent uncertainties. The simulation relies on a significant number of assumptions, such as the potential for multiple entities to react similarly to external events, and includes other statistical assumptions. The simulation results shown for each segment do not add to the total simulation results, as the individual segment simulation results do not reflect the diversification effects across our segments. At December 31, 2022, our recorded Loss Reserves by underwriting segment, net of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recoverable, and the results of the simulation were as follows: (1)    Net of reinsurance recoverables. (2)    Simulation results indicate that a 90% probability exists that the net reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses will not exceed the indicated amount. (3)    Simulation results indicate that a 10% probability exists that the net reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses will be at or below the indicated amount. For informational purposes, based on the total simulation results, a change in our Loss Reserves to the amount indicated at the 90th percentile would result in a decrease in income before income taxes of approximately $2.3 billion, or $6.14 per diluted share, while a change in our Loss Reserves to the amount indicated at the 10th percentile would result in an increase in income before income taxes of approximately $2.2 billion, or $5.85 per diluted share. The simulation results noted above are informational only, and no assurance can be given that our ultimate losses will not be significantly different than the simulation results shown above, and such differences could directly and significantly impact earnings favorably or unfavorably in the period they are determined. We do not have significant exposure to pre-2002 liabilities, such as asbestos-related illnesses and other long-tail liabilities. It is difficult to provide meaningful trend information for certain liability/casualty coverages for which the claim-tail may be especially long, as claims are often reported and ultimately paid or settled years, or even decades, after the related loss events occur. Any estimates and assumptions made as part of the reserving process could prove to be inaccurate due to several factors, including the fact that for certain lines of business relatively limited historical information has been reported to us through December 31, 2022. Accordingly, the reserving for incurred losses in these lines of business could be subject to greater variability. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business & Operations – Underwriting risks and reserving for losses are based on probabilities and related modeling, which are subject to inherent uncertainties.” Mortgage Operations Supplemental Information The mortgage segment’s insurance in force (“IIF”) and risk in force (“RIF”) were as follows at December 31, 2022 and 2021: (1)    Represents the aggregate dollar amount of each insured mortgage loan’s current principal balance. (2)    Includes all CRT transactions, which are predominantly with GSEs, and other U.S. reinsurance transactions. (3)    International mortgage insurance and reinsurance with risk primarily located in Australia and to lesser extent Europe and Asia. (4)    The aggregate dollar amount of each insured mortgage loan’s current principal balance multiplied by the insurance coverage percentage specified in the policy for insurance policies issued and after contract limits and/or loss ratio caps for risk-sharing or reinsurance transactions. The insurance in force and risk in force for our U.S. primary mortgage insurance business by policy year were as follows at December 31, 2022: (1) Represents the ending percentage of loans in default. The insurance in force and risk in force for our U.S. primary mortgage insurance business by policy year were as follows at December 31, 2021: (1) Represents the ending percentage of loans in default. The following tables provide supplemental disclosures on risk in force for our U.S. primary mortgage insurance business at December 31, 2022 and 2021: The following table provides supplemental disclosures for our U.S. primary mortgage insurance business related to insured loans and loss metrics for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: (1)    Includes first lien primary and pool policies. (2)    Represents total paid claims divided by RIF of loans for which claims were paid. The risk-to-capital ratio, which represents total current (non-delinquent) risk in force, net of reinsurance, divided by total statutory capital, for Arch MI U.S. was approximately 7.2 to 1 at December 31, 2022, compared to 8 to 1 at December 31, 2021. Ceded Reinsurance In the normal course of business, our insurance and mortgage insurance operations cede a portion of their premium on a quota share or excess of loss basis through treaty or facultative reinsurance agreements. Our reinsurance operations also obtain reinsurance whereby another reinsurer contractually agrees to indemnify it for all or a portion of the reinsurance risks underwritten by our reinsurance operations. Such arrangements, where one reinsurer provides reinsurance to another reinsurer, are usually referred to as “retrocessional reinsurance” arrangements. In addition, our reinsurance subsidiaries participate in “common account” retrocessional arrangements for certain pro rata treaties. Such arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses to all companies participating on such treaties, including the reinsurers, such as our reinsurance operations, and the ceding company. Estimating reinsurance recoverables can be more subjective than estimating the underlying reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses as discussed above in “—Loss Reserves.” In particular, reinsurance recoverables may be affected by deemed inuring reinsurance, industry losses reported by various statistical reporting services, and other factors. Reinsurance recoverables are recorded as assets, predicated on the reinsurers’ ability to meet their obligations under the reinsurance agreements. If the reinsurers are unable to satisfy their obligations under the agreements, our insurance or reinsurance operations would be liable for such defaulted amounts. The availability and cost of reinsurance and retrocessional protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. Although we believe that our insurance and reinsurance operations have been successful in obtaining adequate reinsurance and retrocessional protection, it is not certain that they will be able to continue to obtain adequate protection at cost effective levels. As a result of such market conditions and other factors, our insurance, reinsurance and mortgage operations may not be able to successfully mitigate risk through reinsurance and retrocessional arrangements and may lead to increased volatility in our results of operations in future periods. See “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business and Operations—The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.” For purposes of managing risk, we reinsure a portion of our exposures, paying to reinsurers a part of the premiums received on the policies we write, and we may also use retrocessional protection. On a consolidated basis, ceded premiums written represented 27.7% of gross premiums written for 2022, compared to 29.3% for 2021. We monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers and attempt to place coverages only with substantial, financially sound carriers. If the financial condition of our reinsurers or retrocessionaires deteriorates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, we will be responsible for probable losses resulting from our inability to collect amounts due from such parties, as appropriate. We evaluate the credit worthiness of all the reinsurers to which we cede business. We report reinsurance recoverables net of an allowance for expected credit loss. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of amounts outstanding, the financial condition of our reinsurers, amounts and form of collateral obtained and other relevant factors. A ratings based probability-of-default and loss-given-default methodology is used to estimate the allowance for expected credit loss. See “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business and Operations—We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our business operations” and “Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further details. We have entered into various aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreements with various special purpose reinsurance companies domiciled in Bermuda. These are special purpose variable interest entities that are not consolidated in our financial results because we do not have the unilateral power to direct those activities that are significant to its economic performance. As of December 31, 2022, our estimated off-balance sheet maximum exposure to loss from such entities was $26.8 million. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information. Premium Revenues and Related Expenses Insurance premiums written are generally recorded at the policy inception and are primarily earned on a pro rata basis over the terms of the policies for all products, usually 12 months. Premiums written include estimates in our insurance operations’ programs, specialty lines, collateral protection business and for participation in involuntary pools. Such premium estimates are derived from multiple sources which include the historical experience of the underlying business, similar business and available industry information. Unearned premium reserves represent the portion of premiums written that relates to the unexpired terms of in-force insurance policies. Reinsurance premiums written include amounts reported by brokers and ceding companies, supplemented by our own estimates of premiums where reports have not been received. The determination of premium estimates requires a review of our experience with the ceding companies, familiarity with each market, the timing of the reported information, an analysis and understanding of the characteristics of each line of business, and management’s judgment of the impact of various factors, including premium or loss trends, on the volume of business written and ceded to us. On an ongoing basis, our underwriters review the amounts reported by these third parties for reasonableness based on their experience and knowledge of the subject class of business, taking into account our historical experience with the brokers or ceding companies. In addition, reinsurance contracts under which we assume business generally contain specific provisions which allow us to perform audits of the ceding company to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract, including accurate and timely reporting of information. Based on a review of all available information, management establishes premium estimates where reports have not been received. Premium estimates are updated when new information is received and differences between such estimates and actual amounts are recorded in the period in which estimates are changed or the actual amounts are determined. Premiums written are recorded based on the type of contracts we write. Premiums on our excess of loss and pro rata reinsurance contracts are estimated when the business is underwritten. For excess of loss contracts, premiums are recorded as written based on the terms of the contract. Estimates of premiums written under pro rata contracts are recorded in the period in which the underlying risks incept and are based on information provided by the brokers and the ceding companies. For multi-year reinsurance treaties which are payable in annual installments, generally, only the initial annual installment is included as premiums written at policy inception due to the ability of the reinsured to commute or cancel coverage during the term of the policy. The remaining annual installments are included as premiums written at each successive anniversary date within the multi-year term. Reinstatement premiums for our insurance and reinsurance operations are recognized at the time a loss event occurs, where coverage limits for the remaining life of the contract are reinstated under pre-defined contract terms. Reinstatement premiums, if obligatory, are fully earned when recognized. The accrual of reinstatement premiums is based on an estimate of losses and loss adjustment expenses, which reflects management’s judgment, as described above in “—Loss Reserves.” The amount of reinsurance premium estimates included in premiums receivable and the amount of related acquisition expenses by type of business were as follows at December 31, 2022: Premium estimates are reviewed by management at least quarterly. Such review includes a comparison of actual reported premiums to expected ultimate premiums along with a review of the aging and collection of premium estimates. Based on management’s review, the appropriateness of the premium estimates is evaluated, and any adjustment to these estimates is recorded in the period in which it becomes known. Adjustments to premium estimates could be material and such adjustments could directly and significantly impact earnings favorably or unfavorably in the period they are determined because the estimated premium may be fully or substantially earned. A significant portion of amounts included as premiums receivable, which represent estimated premiums written, net of commissions, are not currently due based on the terms of the underlying contracts. Based on currently available information, we report premiums receivable net of an allowance for expected credit loss. We monitor credit risk associated with premiums receivable through our ongoing review of amounts outstanding, aging of the receivable, historical data and counterparty financial strength measures. Reinsurance premiums assumed, irrespective of the class of business, are generally earned on a pro rata basis over the terms of the underlying policies or reinsurance contracts. Contracts and policies written on a “losses occurring” basis cover claims that may occur during the term of the contract or policy, which is typically 12 months. Accordingly, the premium is earned evenly over the term. Contracts which are written on a “risks attaching” basis cover claims which attach to the underlying insurance policies written during the terms of such contracts. Premiums earned on such contracts usually extend beyond the original term of the reinsurance contract, typically resulting in recognition of premiums earned over a 24-month period. Certain of our reinsurance contracts include provisions that adjust premiums or acquisition expenses based upon the experience under the contracts. Premiums written and earned, as well as related acquisition expenses, are recorded based upon the projected experience under such contracts. Retroactive reinsurance reimburses a ceding company for liabilities incurred as a result of past insurable events covered by the underlying policies reinsured. In certain instances, reinsurance contracts cover losses both on a prospective basis and on a retroactive basis and, accordingly, we bifurcate the prospective and retrospective elements of these reinsurance contracts and accounts for each element separately where practical. Underwriting income generated in connection with retroactive reinsurance contracts is deferred and amortized into income over the settlement period while losses are charged to income immediately. Subsequent changes in estimated amount or timing of cash flows under such retroactive reinsurance contracts are accounted for by adjusting the previously deferred amount to the balance that would have existed had the revised estimate been available at the inception of the reinsurance transaction, with a corresponding charge or credit to income. Mortgage guaranty insurance policies are contracts that are generally non-cancelable by the insurer, are renewable at a fixed price, and provide for payment of premiums on a monthly, annual or single basis. Upon renewal, we are not able to re-underwrite or re-price our policies. Consistent with industry accounting practices, premiums written on a monthly basis are earned as coverage is provided. Premiums written on an annual basis are amortized on a monthly pro rata basis over the year of coverage. Primary mortgage insurance premiums written on policies covering more than one year are referred to as single premiums. A portion of the revenue from single premiums is recognized in premiums earned in the current period, and the remaining portion is deferred as unearned premiums and earned over the estimated expiration of risk of the policy. If single premium policies related to insured loans are canceled for any reason and the policy is a non-refundable product, the remaining unearned premium related to each canceled policy is recognized as earned premium upon notification of the cancellation. Unearned premiums represent the portion of premiums written that is applicable to the estimated unexpired risk of insured loans. A portion of premium payments may be refundable if the insured cancels coverage, which generally occurs when the loan is repaid, the loan amortizes to a sufficiently low amount to trigger a lender permitted or legally required cancellation, or the value of the property has increased sufficiently in accordance with the terms of the contract. Premium refunds reduce premiums earned in the consolidated statements of income. Generally, only unearned premiums are refundable. Acquisition costs that are directly related and incremental to the successful acquisition or renewal of business are deferred and amortized based on the type of contract. For property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts, deferred acquisition costs are amortized over the period in which the related premiums are earned. Consistent with mortgage insurance industry accounting practice, amortization of acquisition costs related to the mortgage insurance contracts for each underwriting year’s book of business is recorded in proportion to estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are comprised of earned premiums and losses and loss adjustment expenses. For each underwriting year, we estimate the rate of amortization to reflect actual experience and any changes to persistency or loss development. Acquisition expenses and other expenses related to our underwriting operations that vary with, and are directly related to, the successful acquisition or renewal of business are deferred and amortized based on the type of contract. Our insurance and reinsurance operations capitalize incremental direct external costs that result from acquiring a contract but do not capitalize salaries, benefits and other internal underwriting costs. For our mortgage insurance operations, which include a substantial direct sales force, both external and certain internal direct costs are deferred and amortized. Deferred acquisition costs are carried at their estimated realizable value and take into account anticipated losses and loss adjustment expenses, based on historical and current experience, and anticipated investment income. A premium deficiency occurs if the sum of anticipated losses and loss adjustment expenses, unamortized acquisition costs and maintenance costs and anticipated investment income exceed unearned premiums. A premium deficiency reserve (“PDR”) is recorded by charging any unamortized acquisition costs to expense to the extent required in order to eliminate the deficiency. If the premium deficiency exceeds unamortized acquisition costs then a liability is accrued for the excess deficiency. To assess the need for a PDR on our mortgage exposures, we develop loss projections based on modeled loan defaults related to our current policies in force. This projection is based on recent trends in default experience, severity and rates of defaulted loans moving to claim, as well as recent trends in the rate at which loans are prepaid, and incorporates anticipated interest income. Evaluating the expected profitability of our existing mortgage insurance business and the need for a PDR for our mortgage business involves significant reliance upon assumptions and estimates with regard to the likelihood, magnitude and timing of potential losses and premium revenues. The models, assumptions and estimates we use to evaluate the need for a PDR may prove to be inaccurate, especially during an extended economic downturn or a period of extreme market volatility and uncertainty. No premium deficiency charges were recorded by us during 2022 or 2021. Fair Value Measurements We review our securities measured at fair value and discuss the proper classification of such investments with investment advisors and others. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a summary of our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at December 31, 2022 by valuation hierarchy. Reclassifications We have reclassified the presentation of certain prior year information to conform to the current presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect on our net income, shareholders’ equity or cash flows. Significant Accounting Pronouncements For all other significant accounting policies see and to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for disclosures concerning our companies significant accounting policies and recent accounting pronouncements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Investable Assets At December 31, 2022, total investable assets held by Arch were $28.1 billion. Investable Assets Held by Arch The Finance, Investment and Risk Committee (“FIR Committee”) of our Board of Directors (the “Board”) establishes our investment policies and sets the parameters for creating guidelines for our investment managers. The FIR reviews the implementation of the investment strategy on a regular basis. Our current approach stresses preservation of capital, market liquidity and diversification of risk. While maintaining our emphasis on preservation of capital and liquidity, we expect our portfolio to become more diversified and, as a result, we may expand into areas which are not currently part of our investment strategy. Our Chief Investment Officer administers the investment portfolio, oversees our investment managers and formulates investment strategy in conjunction with the FIR Committee. At December 31, 2022, approximately $18.8 billion, or 67%, of total investable assets held by Arch were internally managed, compared to $18.5 billion, or 67%, at December 31, 2021. The following table summarizes the fair value of investable assets held by Arch: (1) Average credit ratings on our investment portfolio on securities with ratings by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”). The following table provides the credit quality distribution of our Fixed Maturities. For individual fixed maturities, S&P ratings are used. In the absence of an S&P rating, ratings from Moody’s are used, followed by ratings from Fitch Ratings. (1) Includes U.S. government-sponsored agency mortgage backed securities and agency commercial mortgage backed securities. The following table provides information on the severity of the unrealized loss position as a percentage of amortized cost for all Fixed Maturities which were in an unrealized loss position: The following table summarizes our top ten exposures to fixed income corporate issuers by fair value at December 31, 2022, excluding guaranteed amounts and covered bonds: (1) Average credit ratings as assigned by S&P and Moody’s, respectively. The following table provides information on our structured securities, which include residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”), commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) and asset backed securities (“ABS”): The following table summarizes our equity securities, which include investments in exchange traded funds: (1) Primarily in healthcare, technology, consumer cyclical and non-cyclical and industrials at December 31, 2022. (2) Primarily in corporate at December 31, 2022. (3) Primarily in large cap stocks, foreign equities, healthcare, technology and consumer discretionary at December 31, 2022. Our investment strategy allows for the use of derivative instruments. We utilize various derivative instruments such as futures contracts to enhance investment performance, replicate investment positions or manage market exposures and duration risk that would be allowed under our investment guidelines if implemented in other ways. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional disclosures concerning derivatives. Accounting guidance regarding fair value measurements addresses how companies should measure fair value when they are required to use a fair value measure for recognition or disclosure purposes under GAAP and provides a common definition of fair value to be used throughout GAAP. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for a summary of our financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at December 31, 2022 and 2021 segregated by level in the fair value hierarchy. Reinsurance Recoverables The following table details our reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2022: (1)    The financial strength ratings are as of February 6, 2023 and were assigned by A.M. Best based on its opinion of the insurer’s financial strength as of such date. An explanation of the ratings listed in the table follows: the rating of “A+” is designated “Superior”; and the “A” rating is designated “Excellent.” (2)    See and (3)    The A.M. Best group rating of “A” (Excellent) has been applied to all Lloyd’s syndicates. (4)    Over 95% of such amount is collateralized through reinsurance trusts, funds withheld arrangements, letters of credit or other. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further details. Reserves for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses We establish Loss Reserves which represent estimates involving actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of our expectations of the ultimate settlement and administration costs of losses incurred. Estimating Loss Reserves is inherently difficult. We utilize actuarial models as well as available historical insurance industry loss ratio experience and loss development patterns to assist in the establishment of Loss Reserves. Actual losses and loss adjustment expenses paid will deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates—Loss Reserves” and see Item 1 “Business—Reserves” for further details. Shareholders’ Equity and Book Value per Share Total shareholders’ equity available to Arch was $12.9 billion at December 31, 2022, compared to $13.5 billion at December 31, 2021. The 2022 period primarily reflected the impact of rising interest rates on our fixed income portfolio and the elevated catastrophe activity we experienced during the year. The following table presents the calculation of book value per share: (1)    Excludes the effects of 14,420,901 and 17,083,160 stock options and 557,003 and 729,636 restricted stock and performance units outstanding at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. LIQUIDITY Liquidity is a measure of our ability to access sufficient cash flows to meet the short-term and long-term cash requirements of our business operations. Arch Capital is a holding company whose assets primarily consist of the shares in its subsidiaries. Generally, Arch Capital depends on its available cash resources, liquid investments and dividends or other distributions from its subsidiaries to make payments, including the payment of debt service obligations and operating expenses it may incur and any dividends or liquidation amounts with respect to our preferred and common shares. In 2022, Arch Capital received dividends of $0.7 billion from Arch Reinsurance Ltd. (“Arch Re Bermuda”), our Bermuda-based reinsurer and insurer which can pay approximately $3.7 billion to Arch Capital in 2023 without providing an affidavit to the Bermuda Monetary Authority (“BMA”). Our insurance and reinsurance operations provide liquidity in that premiums are received in advance, sometimes substantially in advance, of the time losses are paid. The period of time from the occurrence of a claim through the settlement of the liability may extend many years into the future. Sources of liquidity include cash flows from operations, financing arrangements or routine sales of investments. As part of our investment strategy, we seek to establish a level of cash and highly liquid short-term and intermediate-term securities which, combined with expected cash flow, is believed by us to be adequate to meet our foreseeable payment obligations. However, due to the nature of our operations, cash flows are affected by claim payments that may comprise large payments on a limited number of claims and which can fluctuate from year to year. We believe that our liquid investments and cash flow will provide us with sufficient liquidity in order to meet our claim payment obligations. However, the timing and amounts of actual claim payments related to recorded Loss Reserves vary based on many factors, including large individual losses, changes in the legal environment, as well as general market conditions. The ultimate amount of the claim payments could differ materially from our estimated amounts. Certain lines of business written by us, such as excess casualty, have loss experience characterized as low frequency and high severity. The foregoing may result in significant variability in loss payment patterns. The impact of this variability can be exacerbated by the fact that the timing of the receipt of reinsurance recoverables owed to us may be slower than anticipated by us. Therefore, the irregular timing of claim payments can create significant variations in cash flows from operations between periods and may require us to utilize other sources of liquidity to make these payments, which may include the sale of investments or utilization of existing or new credit facilities or capital market transactions. If the source of liquidity is the sale of investments, we may be forced to sell such investments at a loss, which may be material. We expect that our liquidity needs, including our anticipated insurance obligations and operating and capital expenditure needs, will be met by funds generated from underwriting activities and investment income, as well as by our balance of cash, short-term investments, proceeds on the sale or maturity of our investments, and our credit facilities, for the next twelve months, at a minimum. Dividend Restrictions Arch Capital has no material restrictions on its ability to make distributions to shareholders. However, the ability of our regulated insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions or other payments to us is limited by the applicable local laws and relevant regulations of the various countries and states in which we operate. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on dividend restrictions. The payment of dividends from Arch Re Bermuda is, under certain circumstances, limited under Bermuda law, which requires our Bermuda operating subsidiary to maintain certain measures of solvency and liquidity. Our U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate. The ability of our regulated insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions is dependent on their ability to meet applicable regulatory standards. These regulations include restrictions that limit the amount of dividends or other distributions, such as loans or cash advances, available to shareholders without prior approval of the insurance regulatory authorities. Each state requires prior regulatory approval of any payment of extraordinary dividends. We also have insurance subsidiaries that are the parent company for other insurance subsidiaries, which means that dividends and other distributions will be subject to multiple layers of regulations in order for our insurance subsidiaries to be able to dividend funds to Arch Capital. The inability of the subsidiaries of Arch Capital to pay dividends and other permitted distributions could have a material adverse effect on Arch Capital’s cash requirements and our ability to make principal, interest and dividend payments on the senior notes, preferred shares and common shares. In addition to meeting applicable regulatory standards, the ability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is also constrained by our dependence on the financial strength ratings of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries from independent rating agencies. The ratings from these agencies depend to a large extent on the capitalization levels of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. We believe that Arch Capital has sufficient cash resources and available dividend capacity to service its indebtedness and other current outstanding obligations. Restricted Assets Our insurance, reinsurance and mortgage insurance subsidiaries are required to maintain assets on deposit, which primarily consist of fixed maturities, with various regulatory authorities to support their operations. The assets on deposit are available to settle insurance and reinsurance liabilities to third parties. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries maintain assets in trust accounts as collateral for insurance and reinsurance transactions with affiliated companies and also have investments in segregated portfolios primarily to provide collateral or guarantees for letters of credit to third parties. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, such amounts approximated $8.7 billion and $8.2 billion, respectively. Our investments in certain securities, including certain fixed income and structured securities, investments in funds accounted for using the equity method, other alternative investments and investments in operating affiliates may be illiquid due to contractual provisions or investment market conditions. If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of anticipated cash requirements, then we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner or may be forced to sell or terminate them at unfavorable values. Our unfunded investment commitments totaled approximately $2.9 billion at December 31, 2022 and are callable by our investment managers. The timing of the funding of investment commitments is uncertain and may require us to access cash on short notice. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, excluding amounts related to the ‘other’ segment: Cash provided by operating activities for the 2022 period reflected a higher level of premiums collected than in the 2021 period. Cash used for investing activities for the 2022 period reflected a higher level of purchases of fixed income securities than in the 2021 period, while the 2021 period reflected cash used for our investment in Coface and Somers. Cash used for financing activities for the 2022 period primarily reflected $585.8 million of repurchases under our share repurchase program, compared to $1.2 in the 2021 period. Investments At December 31, 2022, our investable assets were $28.1 billion. The primary goals of our asset liability management process are to meet our insurance liabilities, manage the interest rate risk embedded in those insurance liabilities and maintain sufficient liquidity to cover fluctuations in projected liability cash flows, including debt service obligations. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by our fixed income portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of our insurance reserves. Although this is not an exact cash flow match in each period, the substantial degree by which the fair value of the fixed income portfolio exceeds the expected present value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high quality liquid bonds, provide assurance of our ability to fund the payment of claims and to service our outstanding debt without having to sell securities at distressed prices or access credit facilities. Please refer to Item 1A “ ” for a discussion of other risks relating to our business and investment portfolio. CAPITAL RESOURCES The following table provides an analysis of our capital structure: See and , to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on capital structure. Capital Adequacy We monitor our capital adequacy on a regular basis and will seek to adjust our capital base (up or down) according to the needs of our business. The future capital requirements of our business will depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. Our ability to underwrite is largely dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies. In particular, we require (1) sufficient capital to maintain our financial strength ratings, as issued by several ratings agencies, at a level considered necessary by management to enable our key operating subsidiaries to compete; (2) sufficient capital to enable our underwriting subsidiaries to meet the capital adequacy tests performed by statutory agencies in the U.S. and other key markets; and (3) our non-U.S. operating companies are required to post letters of credit and other forms of collateral that are necessary for them to operate as they are “non-admitted” under U.S. state insurance regulations. In addition, AMIC and UGRIC (together, “Arch MI U.S.”) are required to maintain compliance with the GSE requirements, known as PMIERs. The financial requirements require an eligible mortgage insurer’s available assets, which generally include only the most liquid assets of an insurer, to meet or exceed “minimum required assets” as of each quarter end. Minimum required assets are calculated from PMIERs tables with several risk dimensions (including origination year, original loan-to-value and original credit score of performing loans, and the delinquency status of non-performing loans) and are subject to a minimum amount. Arch MI U.S. satisfied the PMIERs’ financial requirements as of December 31, 2022 with a PMIER sufficiency ratio of 236%, compared to 197% at December 31, 2021. As part of our capital management program, we may seek to raise additional capital or may seek to return capital to our shareholders through share repurchases, cash dividends or other methods (or a combination of such methods). Any such determination will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent upon our profits, financial requirements and other factors, including legal restrictions, rating agency requirements and such other factors as our Board deems relevant. To the extent that our existing capital is insufficient to fund our future operating requirements or maintain such ratings, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or limit our growth. We can provide no assurance that, if needed, we would be able to obtain additional funds through financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Any adverse developments in the financial markets, such as disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets, may result in realized and unrealized capital losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and our businesses, and may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business. In addition to common share capital, we depend on external sources of finance to support our underwriting activities, which can be in the form (or any combination) of debt securities, preference shares, common equity and bank credit facilities providing loans and/or letters of credit. Arch Capital, through its subsidiaries, provides financial support to certain of its insurance subsidiaries and affiliates, through certain reinsurance arrangements beneficial to the ratings of such subsidiaries. Historically, our insurance, reinsurance and mortgage insurance subsidiaries have entered into separate reinsurance arrangements with Arch Re Bermuda covering individual lines of business. Except as described in the above paragraph, or where express reinsurance, guarantee or other financial support contractual arrangements are in place, each of Arch Capital’s subsidiaries or affiliates is solely responsible for its own liabilities and commitments (and no other Arch Capital subsidiary or affiliate is so responsible). Any reinsurance arrangements, guarantees or other financial support contractual arrangements that are in place are solely for the benefit of the Arch Capital subsidiary or affiliate involved and third parties (creditors or insureds of such entity) are not express beneficiaries of such arrangements. Share Repurchase Program Our Board has authorized the investment in Arch Capital’s common shares through a share repurchase program. Since the inception of the share repurchase program through December 31, 2022, Arch Capital has repurchased approximately 433.6 million common shares for an aggregate purchase price of $5.9 billion. At December 31, 2022, $1.0 billion of share repurchases were available under the program. Repurchases under the program may be effected from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2024. The timing and amount of the repurchase transactions under this program will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, the development of the economy, corporate and regulatory considerations. We will continue to monitor our share price and, depending upon results of operations, market conditions and the development of the economy, as well as other factors, we will consider share repurchases on an opportunistic basis. GUARANTOR INFORMATION The below table provides a description of our senior notes payable at December 31, 2022: ( 1) Fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Arch Capital. Our senior notes were issued by Arch Capital, Arch Capital Group (U.S.) Inc. (“Arch-U.S.”) and Arch Capital Finance LLC (“Arch Finance”). Arch-U.S. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arch Capital and Arch Finance is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of Arch-U.S. Our 2034 senior notes and 2050 senior notes issued by Arch Capital are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Arch Capital and ranked equally with all of its existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The 2043 senior notes issued by Arch-U.S. are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Arch-U.S. and Arch Capital and rank equally and ratably with the other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Arch-U.S. and Arch Capital. The 2026 senior notes and 2046 senior notes issued by Arch Finance are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Arch Finance and Arch Capital and rank equally and ratably with the other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of Arch Finance and Arch Capital. Arch Capital and Arch-U.S. are each holding companies and, accordingly, they conduct substantially all of their operations through their operating subsidiaries. Arch Finance is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arch U.S. MI Holdings Inc., a U.S. holding company. As a result, Arch Capital, Arch-U.S. and Arch Finance's cash flows and their ability to service their debt depends upon the earnings of their operating subsidiaries and on their ability to distribute the earnings, loans or other payments from such subsidiaries to Arch Capital, Arch-U.S. and Arch Finance, respectively. During 2022 and 2021, we made interest payments of $128.4 million and $131.0 million respectively, related to our senior notes and other financing arrangements. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional disclosures concerning our senior notes and revolving credit agreement borrowings. For additional information on our preferred shares, see to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. The following tables present condensed financial information for Arch Capital (parent guarantor) and Arch-U.S. (subsidiary issuer): CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMITMENTS Contractual Obligations The following table provides an analysis of our contractual commitments at December 31, 2022: (1) The estimated expected contractual commitments related to the reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses are presented on a gross basis ( i.e. , not reflecting any corresponding reinsurance recoverable amounts that would be due to us). It should be noted that until a claim has been presented to us, determined to be valid, quantified and settled, there is no known obligation on an individual transaction basis, and while estimable in the aggregate, the timing and amount contain significant uncertainty. (2) The estimated expected contractual commitments related to deposit accounting liabilities have been estimated using projected cash flows from the underlying contracts. It should be noted that, due to the nature of such liabilities, the timing and amount contain significant uncertainty. (3) Certain insurance policies written by our insurance operations feature large deductibles, primarily in construction and national accounts lines. Under such contracts, we are obligated to pay the claimant for the full amount of the claim and are subsequently reimbursed by the policyholder for the deductible amount. In the event we are unable to collect from the policyholder, we would be liable for such defaulted amounts. (4) Unfunded investment commitments are callable by our investment managers. We have assumed that such investments will be funded in the next year but the funding may occur over a longer period of time, due to market conditions and other factors. Letter of Credit and Revolving Credit Facilities In the normal course of its operations, the Company enters into agreements with financial institutions to obtain secured and unsecured credit facilities. On April 7, 2022, Arch Capital and certain of its subsidiaries amended its existing credit agreement into a $925.0 million facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndication of lenders. The Credit Facility, as amended, consists of a $425.0 million secured facility for letters of credit (the “Secured Facility”) and a $500.0 million unsecured facility for revolving loans and letters of credit (the “Unsecured Facility”). Obligations of each borrower under the Secured Facility for letters of credit are secured by cash and eligible securities of such borrower held in collateral accounts. Commitments under the Credit Facility may be increased up to, but not exceeding, an aggregate of $1.25 billion. Arch Capital has a one-time option to convert any or all outstanding revolving loans of Arch Capital and/or Arch-U.S. to term loans with the same terms as the revolving loans except that any prepayments may not be re-borrowed. Arch-U.S. guarantees the obligations of Arch Capital, and Arch Capital guarantees the obligations of Arch-U.S. Borrowings of revolving loans may be made at a variable rate based on Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). Secured letters of credit are available for issuance on behalf of certain Arch Capital subsidiaries. At December 31, 2022, the Secured Facility had $323.1 million of letters of credit outstanding and remaining capacity of $101.9 million, and the Unsecured Facility had no outstanding revolving loans or letters of credit, with remaining capacity of $500.0 million. The Credit Facility contains certain restrictive covenants customary for facilities of this type, including restrictions on indebtedness, consolidated tangible net worth, minimum shareholders’ equity levels and minimum financial strength ratings. Arch Capital and its subsidiaries which are party to the agreement were in compliance with all covenants contained therein at December 31, 2022. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional disclosures concerning our senior notes and revolving credit agreement borrowings. RATINGS Our ability to underwrite business is affected by the quality of our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent agencies. Such ratings from third party internationally recognized statistical rating organizations or agencies are instrumental in establishing the financial security of companies in our industry. We believe that the primary users of such ratings include commercial and investment banks, policyholders, brokers, ceding companies and investors. Insurance ratings are also used by insurance and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers and reinsurers, and are often an important factor in the decision by an insured or intermediary of whether to place business with a particular insurance or reinsurance provider. Periodically, rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet their criteria for the ratings assigned to us by them. S&P, Moody’s, A.M. Best Company and Fitch Ratings are ratings agencies which have assigned financial strength ratings to one or more of Arch Capital’s subsidiaries. If we are not able to obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, which could include, among other things, the following possible outcomes: (1) potential downgrades in the financial strength ratings assigned by ratings agencies to our operating subsidiaries, which could place those operating subsidiaries at a competitive disadvantage compared to higher-rated competitors; (2) reductions in the amount of business that our operating subsidiaries are able to write in order to meet capital adequacy-based tests enforced by statutory agencies; and (3) any resultant ratings downgrades could, among other things, affect our ability to write business and increase the cost of bank credit and letters of credit. In addition, under certain of the reinsurance agreements assumed by our reinsurance operations, upon the occurrence of a ratings downgrade or other specified triggering event with respect to our reinsurance operations, such as a reduction in surplus by specified amounts during specified periods, our ceding company clients may be provided with certain rights, including, among other things, the right to terminate the subject reinsurance agreement and/or to require that our reinsurance operations post additional collateral. The ratings issued on our companies by these agencies are announced publicly and are available directly from the agencies. Our website www.archgroup.com (Investor Relations-Credit Ratings) contains information about our ratings, but such information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. CATASTROPHIC EVENTS AND SEVERE ECONOMIC EVENTS We have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made catastrophic events, pandemic events like COVID-19 and severe economic events. Natural catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, floods, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather, fires, droughts and other natural disasters. Catastrophes can also cause losses in non-property business such as mortgage insurance, workers’ compensation or general liability. In addition to the nature of property business, we believe that economic and geographic trends affecting insured property, including inflation, property value appreciation and geographic concentration, tend to generally increase the size of losses from catastrophic events over time. We have substantial exposure to unexpected, large losses resulting from future man-made catastrophic events, such as acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. These risks are inherently unpredictable. It is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. It is not possible to completely eliminate our exposure to unforecasted or unpredictable events and, to the extent that losses from such risks occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Therefore, claims for natural and man-made catastrophic events could expose us to large losses and cause substantial volatility in our results of operations, which could cause the value of our common shares to fluctuate widely. In certain instances, we specifically insure and reinsure risks resulting from terrorism. Even in cases where we attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and certain other similar risks from some coverages written by us, we may not be successful in doing so. Moreover, irrespective of the clarity and inclusiveness of policy language, there can be no assurance that a court or arbitration panel will limit enforceability of policy language or otherwise issue a ruling adverse to us. We seek to limit our loss exposure by writing a number of our reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and prudent underwriting of each program written. In the case of proportional treaties, we may seek per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one or series of events. In our insurance operations, we seek to limit our exposure through the purchase of reinsurance. We cannot be certain that any of these loss limitation methods will be effective. We also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification. Geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone's limits. There can be no assurance that various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will be enforceable in the manner we intend. Disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may also arise. Underwriting is inherently a matter of judgment, involving important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. One or more catastrophic or other events could result in claims that substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations, possibly to the extent of eliminating our shareholders' equity. For our natural catastrophe exposed business, we seek to limit the amount of exposure we will assume from any one insured or reinsured and the amount of the exposure to catastrophe losses from a single event in any geographic zone. We monitor our exposure to catastrophic events, including earthquake and wind and periodically reevaluate the estimated probable maximum pre-tax loss for such exposures. Our estimated probable maximum pre-tax loss is determined through the use of modeling techniques, but such estimate does not represent our total potential loss for such exposures. Our models employ both proprietary and vendor-based systems and include cross-line correlations for property, marine, offshore energy, aviation, workers compensation and personal accident. We seek to limit the probable maximum pre-tax loss to a specific level for severe catastrophic events. Currently, we seek to limit our 1-in-250 year return period net probable maximum loss from a severe catastrophic event in any geographic zone to approximately 25% of tangible shareholders’ equity available to Arch (total shareholders’ equity available to Arch less goodwill and intangible assets). We reserve the right to change this threshold at any time. Based on in-force exposure estimated as of January 1, 2023, our modeled peak zone catastrophe exposure is a windstorm affecting the Florida Tri-County, with a net probable maximum pre-tax loss of $970 million, followed by windstorms affecting the Northeast U.S., and the Gulf of Mexico with net probable maximum pre-tax losses of $908 million and $903 million, respectively. As of January 1, 2023, our modeled peak zone earthquake exposure (San Francisco area earthquake) represented approximately 60% of our peak zone catastrophe exposure, and our modeled peak zone international exposure (U.K. windstorm) was substantially less than both our peak zone windstorm and earthquake exposures. We also have significant exposure to losses due to mortgage defaults resulting from severe economic events in the future. For our U.S. mortgage insurance business, we have developed a proprietary risk model (“Realistic Disaster Scenario” or “RDS”) that simulates the maximum loss resulting from a severe economic downturn impacting the housing market. The RDS models the collective impact of adverse conditions for key economic indicators, the most significant of which is a decline in home prices. The RDS model projects paths of future home prices, unemployment rates, income levels and interest rates and assumes correlation across states and geographic regions. The resulting future performance of our in-force portfolio is then estimated under the economic stress scenario, reflecting loan and borrower information. Currently, we seek to limit our modeled RDS loss from a severe economic event to approximately 25% of total tangible shareholders’ equity available to Arch. We reserve the right to change this threshold at any time. Based on in-force exposure estimated as of January 1, 2023, our modeled RDS loss was 12.3% of tangible shareholders’ equity available to Arch. Net probable maximum loss estimates are net of expected reinsurance recoveries, before income tax and before excess reinsurance reinstatement premiums. RDS loss estimates are net of expected reinsurance recoveries and before income tax. Catastrophe loss estimates are reflective of the zone indicated and not the entire portfolio. Since hurricanes and windstorms can affect more than one zone and make multiple landfalls, our catastrophe loss estimates include clash estimates from other zones. Our catastrophe loss estimates and RDS loss estimates do not represent our maximum exposures and it is highly likely that our actual incurred losses would vary materially from the modeled estimates. There can be no assurances that we will not suffer pre-tax losses greater than 25% of our tangible shareholders’ equity from one or more catastrophic events or severe economic events due to several factors, including the inherent uncertainties in estimating the frequency and severity of such events and the margin of error in making such determinations resulting from potential inaccuracies and inadequacies in the data provided by clients and brokers, the modeling techniques and the application of such techniques or as a result of a decision to change the percentage of shareholders' equity exposed to a single catastrophic event or severe economic event. In addition, actual losses may increase if our reinsurers fail to meet their obligations to us or the reinsurance protections purchased by us are exhausted or are otherwise unavailable. See “ Depending on business opportunities and the mix of business that may comprise our insurance, reinsurance and mortgage portfolios, we may seek to adjust our self-imposed limitations on probable maximum pre-tax loss for catastrophe exposed business and mortgage default exposed business. See for a discussion of our catastrophe reinsurance programs. MARKET SENSITIVE INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Our investment results are subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in general economic conditions and overall market conditions. We are also exposed to potential loss from various market risks, including changes in equity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. In accordance with the SEC’s Financial Reporting Release No. 48, we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures could have on the future earnings, fair values or cash flows of our financial instruments as of December 31, 2022. Market risk represents the risk of changes in the fair value of a financial instrument and consists of several components, including liquidity, basis and price risks. The sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2022 presents hypothetical losses in cash flows, earnings and fair values of market sensitive instruments which were held by us on December 31, 2022 and are sensitive to changes in interest rates and equity security prices. This risk management discussion and the estimated amounts generated from the following sensitivity analysis represent forward-looking statements of market risk assuming certain adverse market conditions occur. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in the global financial markets. The analysis methods used by us to assess and mitigate risk should not be considered projections of future events of losses. The focus of the SEC’s market risk rules is on price risk. For purposes of specific risk analysis, we employ sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures could have on the future earnings, fair values or cash flows of our financial instruments. The financial instruments included in the following sensitivity analysis consist of all of our investments and cash. Investment Market Risk Fixed Income Securities . We invest in interest rate sensitive securities, primarily debt securities. We consider the effect of interest rate movements on the fair value of our fixed maturities, short-term investments and certain of our other investments, equity securities and investment funds accounted for using the equity method which invest in fixed income securities (collectively, “Fixed Income Securities”) and the corresponding change in unrealized appreciation. As interest rates rise, the fair value of our Fixed Income Securities falls, and the converse is also true. Based on historical observations, there is a low probability that all interest rate yield curves would shift in the same direction at the same time. Furthermore, at times interest rate movements in certain credit sectors exhibit a much lower correlation to changes in U.S. Treasury yields. Accordingly, the actual effect of interest rate movements may differ materially from the amounts set forth in the following tables. The following table summarizes the effect that an immediate, parallel shift in the interest rate yield curve would have had on our investment portfolio at December 31, 2022 and 2021: In addition, we consider the effect of credit spread movements on the market value of our Fixed Income Securities and the corresponding change in unrealized value. As credit spreads widen, the fair value of our Fixed Income Securities falls, and the converse is also true. In periods where the spreads on our Fixed Income Securities are much higher than their historical average due to short-term market dislocations, a parallel shift in credit spread levels would result in a much more pronounced change in unrealized value. The following table summarizes the effect that an immediate, parallel shift in credit spreads in a static interest rate environment would have had on the portfolio at December 31, 2022 and 2021: Another method that attempts to measure portfolio risk is Value-at-Risk (“VaR”). VaR measures the worst expected loss under normal market conditions over a specific time interval at a given confidence level. The 1-year 95th percentile parametric VaR reported herein estimates that 95% of the time, the portfolio loss in a one-year horizon would be less than or equal to the calculated number, stated as a percentage of the measured portfolio’s initial value. The VaR is a variance-covariance based estimate, based on linear sensitivities of a portfolio to a broad set of systematic market risk factors and idiosyncratic risk factors mapped to the portfolio exposures. The relationships between the risk factors are estimated using historical data, and the most recent data points are generally given more weight. As of December 31, 2022, our portfolio’s 95th percentile VaR was estimated to be 8.8%, compared to an estimated 4.8% at December 31, 2021. In periods where the volatility of the risk factors mapped to our portfolio’s exposures is higher due to market conditions, the resulting VaR is higher than in other periods. Equity Securities. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of our investments in equity securities and certain investments accounted for using the equity method with underlying equity strategies totaled $0.8 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. These investments are exposed to price risk, which is the potential loss arising from decreases in fair value. An immediate hypothetical 10% decline in the value of each position would reduce the fair value of such investments by approximately $79.1 million and $137.5 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and would have decreased book value per share by approximately $0.21 and $0.36, respectively. An immediate hypothetical 10% increase in the value of each position would increase the fair value of such investments by approximately $79.1 million and $137.5 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and would have increased book value per share by approximately $0.21 and $0.36, respectively. Investment-Related Derivatives. At December 31, 2022, the notional value of all derivative instruments (excluding foreign currency forward contracts which are included in the foreign currency exchange risk analysis below) was $6.6 billion, compared to $6.4 billion at December 31, 2021. If the underlying exposure of each investment-related derivative held at December 31, 2022 depreciated by 100 basis points, it would have resulted in a reduction in net income of approximately $66.3 million, and a decrease in book value per share of $0.18, compared to $63.8 million and $0.17, respectively, on investment-related derivatives held at December 31, 2021. If the underlying exposure of each investment-related derivative held at December 31, 2022 appreciated by 100 basis points, it would have resulted in an increase in net income of approximately $66.3 million, and an increase in book value per share of $0.18, compared to $63.8 million and $0.17, respectively, on investment-related derivatives held at December 31, 2021. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional disclosures concerning derivatives. For further discussion on investment activity, please refer to “—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial Condition—Investable Assets.” Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Foreign currency rate risk is the potential change in value, income and cash flow arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Through our subsidiaries and branches located in various foreign countries, we conduct our insurance and reinsurance operations in a variety of local currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. We generally hold investments in foreign currencies which are intended to mitigate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in our net insurance liabilities. We may also utilize foreign currency forward contracts and currency options as part of our investment strategy. See to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information. The following table provides a summary of our net foreign currency exchange exposures, as well as foreign currency derivatives in place to manage these exposures: (1)    Represents capital contributions held in the foreign currencies of our operating units. (2)    Represents the net notional value of outstanding foreign currency forward contracts. Although the Company generally attempts to match the currency of its projected liabilities with investments in the same currencies, from time to time the Company may elect to over or underweight one or more currencies, which could increase the Company’s exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and increase the volatility of the Company’s shareholders’ equity. Historical observations indicate a low probability that all foreign currency exchange rates would shift against the U.S. Dollar in the same direction and at the same time and, accordingly, the actual effect of foreign currency rate movements may differ materially from the amounts set forth above. For further discussion on foreign exchange activity, please refer to “—Results of Operations.” Effects of Inflation General economic inflation has increased in recent quarters and may continue to remain at elevated levels for an extended period of time. The potential also exists, after a catastrophe loss or pandemic events like COVID-19, for the development of inflationary pressures in a local economy. This may have a material effect on the adequacy of our reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, especially in longer-tailed lines of business, and on the market value of our investment portfolio through rising interest rates. The anticipated effects of inflation are considered in our pricing models, reserving processes and exposure management, across all lines of business and types of loss including natural catastrophe events. The actual effects of inflation on our results cannot be accurately known until claims are ultimately settled and will vary by the specific type of inflation affecting each line of business.