********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Below we discuss some of the factors that could cause these differences. These and many other factors described in this report could adversely affect our operations, performance and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have materially affected how we and our customers are operating our businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures have materially affected how we and our customers are operating our businesses, and have materially affected our operating results. Due to our subscription-based business model, the effect of the pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. If the pandemic has a substantial impact on our employees’, partners’ or customers’ businesses and productivity, our results of operations and overall financial performance may be harmed. The global macroeconomic effects of the pandemic may persist for an indefinite period, even after the pandemic has subsided. As a result of the pandemic, we have temporarily closed Adobe offices globally and have implemented certain travel restrictions. This global work-from-home operating environment has caused strain for, and may adversely impact the productivity of, certain employees, and these conditions may persist and harm our business, including our future operating results. Additionally, our efforts to re-open our offices safely may not be successful, could expose our employees, customers, and partners to health risks, and us to associated liability, and will involve additional financial burdens. The pandemic may have long-term effects on the nature of the office environment and remote working, and this may present operational challenges that may adversely affect our business. We have shifted all of our in-person customer events through July 2021 to virtual-only experiences and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional customer, employee or industry events in the future. Our virtual customer, employee and industry events may not be as successful as in-person events. Moreover, the conditions caused by the pandemic have affected the rate of IT spending and may continue to adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our offerings. We have seen and may continue to see these conditions delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, adversely impact our ability to provide on-site consulting services to our customers, result in extended payment terms, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts, or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our future sales, operating results and overall financial performance. Our operations have also begun to be negatively affected by a range of external factors related to the pandemic that are not within our control. Authorities throughout the world have implemented measures to contain or mitigate the spread of the virus, including physical distancing, travel bans and restrictions, closure of non-essential businesses, quarantines, work-from-home directives and shelter-in-place orders. These measures have caused, and are continuing to cause, business slowdowns or shutdowns in affected areas, both regionally and worldwide, which have impacted our business and results of operations, and may also delay the provisioning of our offerings. The extent of the impact from the pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the duration and spread of the pandemic, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, partners and vendors. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business will be harmed. Finally, to the extent that the pandemic harms our business and results of operations, many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section may be heightened. Our competitive position and results of operations could be harmed if we do not compete effectively. The markets for our products and services are characterized by intense competition, new industry standards, evolving distribution models, limited barriers to entry, disruptive technology developments, short product life cycles, customer price sensitivity, global market conditions and frequent product introductions (including alternatives with limited functionality available at lower costs or free of charge). Any of these factors could create downward pressure on pricing and gross margins and could adversely affect our renewal and upsell and cross-sell rates, as well as our ability to attract new customers. Our future success will depend on our continued ability to enhance and integrate our existing products and services, introduce new products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, meet changing customer expectations and needs, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other 24 technological developments. Furthermore, some of our competitors and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages such as greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, broader brand awareness and access to larger customer bases. As a result of these advantages, potential and current customers might select the products and services of our competitors, causing a loss of our market share. In addition, consolidation has occurred among some of our competitors. Further consolidations in these markets may subject us to increased competitive pressures and may harm our results of operations. If we cannot continue to develop, acquire, market and offer new products and services or enhancements to existing products and services that meet customer requirements, our operating results could suffer. The process of developing and acquiring new technology products and services and enhancing existing offerings is complex, costly and uncertain. If we fail to anticipate customers’ rapidly changing needs and expectations or adapt to emerging technological trends, our market share and results of operations could suffer. We must make long-term investments, develop, acquire or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed and our revenues and earnings may be harmed. Additionally, any delay in the development, acquisition, marketing or launch of a new offering or enhancement to an existing offering could result in customer attrition or impede our ability to attract new customers, causing a decline in our revenue, earnings or stock price and weakening our competitive position. We offer our products on a variety of hardware platforms. Consumers continue to migrate from personal computers to tablet and mobile devices. If we cannot continue adapting our products to tablet and mobile devices, or if our competitors can adapt their products more quickly than us, our business could be harmed. Releases of new devices or operating systems may make it more difficult for our products to perform or may require significant costs in order for us to adapt our solutions to such devices or operating systems. These potential costs and delays could harm our business. Introduction of new technology could harm our business and results of operations. The expectations and needs of technology consumers are constantly evolving. Our future success depends on a variety of factors, including our continued ability to innovate, introduce new products and services efficiently, enhance and integrate our products and services in a timely and cost-effective manner, extend our core technology into new applications, and anticipate emerging standards, business models, software delivery methods and other technological developments. Integration of our products and services with one another and other companies’ offerings creates an increasingly complex ecosystem that is partly reliant on third parties. If any disruptive technology, or competing products, services or operating systems that are not compatible with our solutions, achieve widespread acceptance, our operating results could suffer and our business could be harmed. The introduction of, or limitations on, certain technologies may reduce the effectiveness of our products. For example, some of our products rely on third-party cookies or other identifiers where the permissions are managed through web browsers or mobile operating systems. These technologies are used in our products to help our customers more effectively advertise, gauge the performance of their advertisements and detect and prevent fraudulent activity. Consumers can control the use of these technologies through their browsers, device settings or “ad-blocking” software or applications. Increased use of such methods, software or applications that block cookies or other identifiers could harm our business. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future investments or acquisitions, and integration of acquisitions may disrupt our business and management. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of an investment or acquisition of a company, division, product or technology, each of which involves numerous risks. These risks include: • inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; • difficulty in, and the cost of, effectively integrating the operations, technologies, products or services, and personnel of the acquired business; • entry into markets in which we have minimal prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; • disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and other employees from other opportunities and challenges; 25 • inability to retain personnel of the acquired business; • inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; • inability to take advantage of anticipated tax benefits; • incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; • elevated delinquency or bad debt write-offs related to receivables of the acquired business we assume; • increased accounts receivables collection times and working capital requirements associated with acquired business models; • additional costs of bringing acquired companies into compliance with laws and regulations applicable to a multinational corporation; • difficulty in maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration; • impairment of our relationships with employees, customers, partners, distributors or third-party providers of our technologies, products or services; • failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other challenges of an acquired company or technology; • exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, such as claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; • incurring significant exit charges if products or services acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • inability to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective; • inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions; • the failure of strategic investments to perform as expected or to meet financial projections; • delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product and service offerings; and • incompatibility of business cultures. Mergers and acquisitions of technology companies are inherently risky. If we do not complete an announced acquisition transaction or integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated, and in certain circumstances an acquisition could harm our financial position. Our ability to acquire other businesses or technologies, make strategic investments or integrate acquired businesses effectively may also be impaired by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, government actions in light of the pandemic, trade tensions and increased global scrutiny of foreign investments. For example, a number of countries, including the U.S. and countries in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, are considering or have adopted restrictions on foreign investments. Governments may continue to adopt or tighten restrictions of this nature, and such restrictions could negatively impact our business and financial results. The success of some of our product and service offerings depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain customers of and contributors to our online marketplaces for creative content. The success of some of our product and service offerings, such as Adobe Stock, depends on our ability to continue to attract new customers and contributors to these online marketplaces for creative content, as well as our ability to continue to retain existing customers and contributors. An increase in paying customers has generally resulted in more content from contributors, which increases the size of our collection and in turn attracts new paying customers. We rely on the functionality and features of our online marketplaces, the size and content of our collection and the effectiveness of our marketing efforts to attract new customers and contributors and retain existing ones. New technologies may render the features of our online marketplaces obsolete, our collection may fail to grow as anticipated or our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations. 26 If our products or platforms are used to create or disseminate objectionable content, particularly misleading content intended to manipulate public opinion, our brand reputation may be damaged, and our business and financial results may be harmed. We believe that our brands have significantly contributed to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the brands within Adobe increases our ability to enter new categories and launch new and innovative products that better serve the needs of our customers. We also believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is critical to expanding our base of customers. Our brands may be negatively affected by the use of our products or services to create or disseminate newsworthy content that is deemed to be misleading, deceptive, or intended to manipulate public opinion (e.g. “DeepFakes”), by the use of our products or services for illicit, objectionable, or illegal ends, or by our failure to respond appropriately and expeditiously to such uses of our products and services. Such uses of our products and services may also cause us to face claims related to defamation, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, misinformation and personal injury torts. Maintaining and enhancing our brands may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not be successful. If we fail to appropriately respond to objectionable content created using our products or services or shared on our platforms, our users may lose confidence in our brands and our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Social and ethical issues relating to the use of AI in our offerings may result in reputational harm and liability. Social and ethical issues relating to the use of new and evolving technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) in our offerings, may result in reputational harm and liability, and may cause us to incur additional research and development costs to resolve such issues. We are increasingly building AI into many of our offerings. As with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI presents emerging ethical issues and if we enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. Potential government regulation in the space of AI ethics may also increase the burden and cost of research and development in this area, subjecting us to brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability.  Failure to address AI ethics issues by us or others in our industry could undermine public confidence in AI and slow adoption of AI in our products and services. Risks Related to the Operation of Our Business Security breaches in data centers we manage, or third parties manage on our behalf, may compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of employee and customer data, which could expose us to liability and adversely affect our reputation and business. We process and store significant amounts of employee and customer data, a large volume of which is hosted by third-party service providers. A security incident impacting our own data centers or those controlled by our service providers may compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of this data. Unauthorized access to or loss or disclosure of data stored by Adobe or our service providers may occur through physical break-ins, breaches of a secure network by an unauthorized party, software vulnerabilities or coding errors, employee theft or misuse or other misconduct. It is also possible that unauthorized access to or disclosure of employee or customer data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by customers or employees. Accounts created with weak or recycled passwords could allow cyber-attackers to gain access to employee or customer data. Additionally, failure by Adobe or our customers to remove the accounts of their own employees, or the granting of accounts in an uncontrolled manner, may allow for access by former or unauthorized individuals. If there were an inadvertent disclosure of customer data, or unauthorized access to the data we possess on behalf of our customers, our operations could be disrupted, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to claims or other liabilities, regulatory investigations, or fines. In addition, such perceived or actual unauthorized loss or disclosure of the information we collect, process, or store or breach of our security could damage our reputation, result in the loss of customers and harm our business. We rely on data centers managed both by Adobe and third parties to host and deliver our services, as well as access, collect, process, use, transmit and store data, and any interruptions or delays in these hosted services, or failures in data collection or transmission could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation. Much of our business relies on hardware and services that are hosted, managed and controlled directly by Adobe or third-party service providers, including our online store at adobe.com, Creative Cloud, Document Cloud and Experience Cloud solutions. We do not have redundancy for all of our systems, many of our critical applications reside in only one of our data centers, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. If our business relationship with a third-party provider of hosting or content delivery services is negatively affected, or if one of our content delivery suppliers were to terminate its agreement with us, without adequate notice, we might not be able to deliver the corresponding hosted offerings to our customers, which could subject us to reputational harm, costly and time-intensive notification requirements, and cause us to lose customers and future business. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic could potentially disrupt the supply chain of hardware needed to maintain these third-party systems and services or to run our business. Occasionally, we migrate data among data 27 centers and to third-party hosted environments. If a transition among data centers or to third-party service providers encounters unexpected interruptions, unforeseen complexity, or unplanned disruptions despite precautions undertaken during the process, this may impair our delivery of products and services to customers and result in increased costs and liabilities, which may harm our operating results and our business. It is also possible that hardware or software failures or errors in our systems (or those of our third-party service providers) could result in data loss or corruption, cause the information that we collect or maintain to be incomplete or contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant, or cause us to fail to meet committed service levels or comply with regulatory notification requirements. Furthermore, our ability to collect and report data may be delayed or interrupted by a number of factors, including access to the Internet, the failure of our network or software systems, security breaches or significant variability in visitor traffic on customer websites. In addition, computer viruses, worms, or other malware may harm our systems, causing us to lose data, and the transmission of computer viruses or other malware could expose us to litigation or regulatory investigation, and costly and time-intensive notification requirements. We may also find, on occasion, that we cannot deliver data and reports to our customers in near real time because of a number of factors, including significant spikes in customer activity on their websites or failures of our network or software, or the failure of our third-party service providers’ network or software. If we fail to plan infrastructure capacity appropriately and expand it proportionally with the needs of our customer base, and we experience a rapid and significant demand on the capacity of our data centers or those of third parties, service outages could occur, and our customers could suffer impaired performance of our services. Such a strain on our infrastructure capacity could subject us to regulatory and customer notification requirements, violations of service level agreement commitments, financial liabilities, result in customer dissatisfaction, or harm our business. If we supply inaccurate information or experience interruptions in our ability to capture, store and supply information in near real time or at all, our reputation could be harmed and we could lose customers as a result, or we could be found liable for damages or incur other losses. Security vulnerabilities in our products and systems, or in our supply chain, could lead to reduced revenue or to liability claims. Maintaining the security of our products and services is a critical issue for us and our customers. Security threats to our information systems, end points and networks have the potential to impact our customers as well. Security researchers, criminal hackers and other third parties regularly develop new techniques to penetrate our end points, information systems and network security measures. And, as we have previously disclosed, certain unauthorized parties have in the past managed to gain access to and misuse some of our systems and software in order to access our end users’ authentication, payment and personal information. In addition, cyber-attackers also develop and deploy viruses, worms, credential stuffing attack tools and other malicious software programs, some of which may be specifically designed to attack our products, services, information systems or networks. Hardware, software and operating system applications that we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs, vulnerabilities and other problems that could unexpectedly compromise the security of the system or impair a customer’s ability to operate or use our products. The costs to prevent, eliminate, mitigate, or alleviate cyber- or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities are significant, and our efforts to address these problems, including notifying affected parties, may not be successful or may be delayed and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. It is impossible to predict the extent, frequency or impact these problems may have on us. Outside parties have in the past and may in the future attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or users of our products or services to disclose sensitive, personal, or confidential information via illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. This existing risk is potentially compounded given the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting shift to work-from-home arrangements for a large population of employees and contractors. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain physical access to our facilities in order to infiltrate our information systems or attempt to gain logical access to our products, services, or information systems for the purpose of exfiltrating content and data. These actual and potential breaches of our security measures and the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unauthorized dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal or confidential data about us, our employees, our customers or their end users, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our employees, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information. This may result in litigation and liability or fines, our compliance with costly and time-intensive notice requirements, governmental inquiry or oversight or a loss of customer confidence, any of which could harm our business or damage our brand and reputation, possibly impeding our present and future success in retaining and attracting new customers and thereby requiring time and resources to repair our brand and reputation. These risks will likely increase as we expand our hosted offerings, integrate our products and services and store and process more data, including personal information. 28 These problems affect our products and services in particular because cyber-attackers tend to focus their efforts on popular offerings with a large user base, and we expect them to continue to do so. Critical vulnerabilities may be identified in some of our applications and services and those of our third-party service providers. These vulnerabilities could cause such applications and services to crash and could allow an attacker to access our or our users’ confidential or personal information or take control of the affected system, which could result in liability to us or limit our ability to conduct our business and deliver our products and services to customers. We devote significant resources to address security vulnerabilities through engineering more secure products, enhancing security and reliability features in our products and systems, code hardening, conducting rigorous penetration tests, deploying updates to address security vulnerabilities, reviewing our service providers’ security controls, reviewing and auditing our hosted services against independent security control frameworks (such as ISO 27001, SOC 2 and PCI), and improving our incident response time, but these security vulnerabilities cannot be totally eliminated. The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins, and we may be unable to implement these measures quickly enough to prevent cyber-attackers from gaining unauthorized access into our systems and products. Despite our preventative efforts, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and systems may harm our reputation or lead to claims against us (and have in the past led to such claims), and could lead some customers to stop using certain products or services, to reduce or delay future purchases of products or services, or to use competing products or services. If we do not make the appropriate level of investment in our technology systems or if our systems become out-of-date or obsolete and we are not able to deliver the quality of data security customers require, our business could be adversely affected. Customers may also adopt security measures designed to protect their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of new technologies. Further, if we, our supply chain, or our customers are subject to a future attack, or our technology is used in a third-party attack, we could be subject to costly and time-intensive notice requirements, and it may be necessary for us to take additional extraordinary measures and make additional expenditures to take appropriate responsive and preventative steps. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenue or margins. Moreover, delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from disruptions caused by cyber-attacks or preventative measures could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. Some of our enterprise offerings have extended and complex sales cycles, which can make our sales cycles unpredictable. Sales cycles for some of our enterprise offerings, including our Adobe Experience Cloud and Adobe Experience Platform solutions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (“ETLAs”) in our Digital Media business, are multi-phased and complex. The complexity in these sales cycles is due to several factors, including: • the need for our sales representatives to educate customers about the use and benefit of large-scale deployments of our products and services, including technical capabilities, security features, potential cost savings and return on investment; • the desire of organizations to undertake significant evaluation processes to determine their technology requirements prior to making information technology expenditures; • the need for our representatives to spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; • intensifying competition within the industry; • the negotiation of large, complex, enterprise-wide contracts; • the need for our customers to obtain requisition approvals from various decision makers within their organizations due to the complexity of our solutions touching multiple departments within customers’ organizations; and • customer budget constraints, economic conditions and unplanned administrative delays. We spend substantial time and expense on our sales efforts without assurance that potential customers will ultimately purchase our solutions. Further, restrictions in place for the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted and could continue to result in our inability to negotiate in person. As we target our sales efforts at larger enterprise customers, these trends are expected to continue and could have a greater impact on our results of operations.  Additionally, our enterprise sales pattern has historically been uneven, where a higher percentage of a quarter’s total sales occur during the final weeks of each quarter, which is common in our industry.  Our extended sales cycle for these products and services makes it difficult to predict when a given sales cycle will close. 29 If our customers fail to renew subscriptions in accordance with our expectations, our future revenue and operating results could suffer. Our Adobe Experience Cloud, Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings typically involve subscription-based offerings pursuant to product and service agreements. Revenue from our subscription customers is generally recognized ratably over the term of their agreements, which typically range from 1 to 36 months. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our services after the expiration of their initial subscription period, and customers may not renew their subscriptions at the same or higher level of service, for the same number of seats or for the same duration of time, if at all. Moreover, under certain circumstances, some of our customers have the right to cancel their agreements prior to the expiration of the terms. Our varied customer base combined with the flexibility we offer in the length of our subscription-based agreements complicates our ability to precisely forecast renewal rates. Therefore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to accurately predict future customer renewal rates. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our services, our ability to continue enhancing features and functionality, the reliability (including uptime) of our subscription offerings, the prices of offerings and those offered by our competitors, the actual or perceived information security of our systems and services, decreases in the size of our customer base, reductions in our customers’ spending levels or declines in customer activity as a result of economic downturns or uncertainty in financial markets, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline. We face various risks associated with our operating as a multinational corporation. As a global business that generates approximately 42% of our total revenue from sales to customers outside of the Americas, we are subject to a number of risks, including: • foreign currency fluctuations and controls; • international and regional economic, political and labor conditions, including any instability or security concerns abroad, including uncertainty caused by the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (Brexit) on January 31, 2020, including the effects of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and the United Kingdom signed on December 30, 2020, as well as uncertainty caused by the evolving relations between the United States and China; • tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries); • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; • changes in laws governing the free flow of data across international borders; • failure of laws to protect our intellectual property rights adequately; • inadequate local infrastructure and difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers; • the imposition of governmental economic sanctions on countries in which we do business or where we plan to expand our business; • costs and delays associated with developing products in multiple languages; • operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices; and • other factors beyond our control, such as terrorism, war, natural disasters and pandemics, including fluctuations in the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting restrictions on business activity which may vary significantly by region. Some of our third-party business partners have international operations and are also subject to these risks and if our third-party business partners are unable to appropriately manage these risks, our business may be harmed. If sales to any of our 30 customers outside of the Americas are reduced, delayed or canceled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may decline. Our business could be harmed if we fail to effectively manage critical strategic third-party business relationships. As our offerings expand and our customer base grows, our relationships with strategic partners become increasingly valuable.  If our contractual relationships with these third parties were to terminate, or if we were unable to renew on favorable terms, our business could be harmed. This is especially the case when the third party’s offerings are integrated with our products and services, or where the third party’s offerings are difficult to substitute or replace. Alternative arrangements for such products and services may not be available to us, or on commercially reasonable terms, and we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner. The failure of third parties to provide acceptable products and services or to update their technology, including during the COVID-19 pandemic, may result in a disruption to our business operations and those of our customers, which may reduce our revenues and profits, cause us to lose customers and damage our reputation. We increasingly utilize the distribution platforms of third parties like Apple’s App Store and Google’s Play Store for the distribution of certain of our product offerings. Although we benefit from the strong brand recognition and large user base of these distribution platforms to attract new customers, the platform owners have wide discretion to change the pricing structure, terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers, and may offer or promote products that compete with our product offerings. Adverse changes by these third parties could adversely affect our financial results. Failure of our third-party customer service and technical support providers to adequately address customers’ requests could harm our business and adversely affect our financial results. Our customers rely on our customer service support organization to resolve issues with our products and services. We outsource a substantial portion of our customer service and technical support activities to third-party service providers. We depend heavily on these third-party customer service and technical support representatives working on our behalf, and we expect to continue to rely heavily on third parties in the future. This strategy presents risks to our business due to the fact that we may not be able to influence the quality of support as directly as we would be able to do if our own employees performed these activities. Our customers may react negatively to providing information to, and receiving support from, third-party organizations, especially if these third-party organizations are based overseas. If we encounter problems with our third-party customer service and technical support providers, our reputation may be harmed, our ability to sell our offerings could be adversely affected, and we could lose customers and associated revenue. If we are unable to recruit and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed. Much of our future success depends on the continued service, availability and performance of our senior management. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Adobe. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business, especially if we have not been successful in developing adequate succession plans. Our business is also dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented, highly skilled personnel across all levels of our organization. Our efforts to attract, develop, integrate and retain highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications may be compounded by intensified restrictions on travel (including during the COVID-19 pandemic), immigration, or the availability of work visas. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense in many areas where our employees are located. We may experience higher compensation costs to retain senior management and experienced personnel that may not be offset by improved productivity or increased sales. If we are unable to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel, our business may be harmed. We continue to hire personnel in countries where exceptional technical knowledge and other expertise are offered at lower costs, which increases the efficiency of our global workforce structure and reduces our personnel related expenditures. Nonetheless, as globalization continues, competition for these employees in these countries has increased, which may impact our ability to retain these employees and increase our expenses resulting from competitive compensation. We may continue to expand our international operations and international sales and marketing activities, which would require significant management attention and resources. We may be unable to scale our infrastructure effectively or as quickly as our competitors in these markets, and our revenue may not increase to offset these expected increases in costs and operating expenses, causing our results to suffer. We believe that a critical contributor to our success to date has been our corporate culture, which we have built to foster innovation, teamwork and employee satisfaction. As we grow, including from the integration of employees and businesses acquired in connection with previous or future acquisitions, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel who are essential to our future success. 31 Failure to manage our sales, partner and distribution channels effectively could result in a loss of revenue and harm to our business. We contract with a number of software distributors and other strategic partners, none of which are individually responsible for a material amount of our total net revenue for any recent period. Nonetheless, if any single agreement with one of our distributors were terminated, any prolonged delay in securing a replacement distributor could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Successfully managing our indirect distribution channel efforts to reach various customer segments for our products and services is a complex process across the broad range of geographies where we do business or plan to do business. Our distributors and other channel partners are independent businesses that we do not control. Notwithstanding the independence of our channel partners, we face legal risk and potential reputational harm from the activities of these third parties including, but not limited to, export control violations, workplace conditions, corruption and anti-competitive behavior. We cannot be certain that our distribution channel will continue to market or sell our products and services effectively. If our partner and distribution channels are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenue. Our distributors also sell our competitors’ products and services, and if they favor our competitors’ products or services for any reason, they may fail to market our products or services effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. We also distribute some products and services through our OEM channel, and if our OEMs decide not to bundle our applications on their devices, our results could suffer. In addition, the financial health of our distributors and partners and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors and partners may be unable to withstand adverse changes in economic conditions, which could result in insolvency, the inability of such distributors and partners to obtain credit to finance access to or purchases of our products and services, or a delay in paying their obligations to us. We also sell some of our products and services through our direct sales force. Risks associated with this sales channel include more extended sales and collection cycles associated with direct sales efforts, challenges related to hiring, retaining and motivating our direct sales force, and substantial amounts of ongoing training for sales representatives. Moreover, recent hires may not become as productive as we would like, as in most cases it takes a significant period of time before they achieve full productivity. Our business could be seriously harmed if our expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue and we are unable to achieve the efficiencies we anticipate. In addition, the loss of key sales employees could impact our customer relationships and future ability to sell to certain accounts covered by such employees. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. We are a highly automated business and rely on our network infrastructure and enterprise applications, internal technology systems and website for our development, marketing, operations, support, hosted services and sales activities. In addition, some of our businesses rely on third-party hosted services, and we do not control the operation of third-party data center facilities serving our customers from around the world, which increases our vulnerability. A disruption, infiltration or failure of these systems or third-party hosted services in the event of a major earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami or other weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or hardware malfunctions, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event that our disaster recovery plans do not adequately address, could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, loss of intellectual property, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. Any of these events could prevent us from fulfilling our customers’ orders or could negatively impact a country or region in which we sell our products, which could in turn decrease that country’s or region’s demand for our products. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, certain of our data centers and certain other critical business operations are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, and additional facilities where we conduct significant operations are located in the Salt Lake Valley Area, both of which are near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be adversely affected, and the adverse effects of any such catastrophic event would be exacerbated if experienced at the same time as another unexpected and adverse event, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, wildfires have resulted in power shut-offs in California and are likely to occur in the future, and this could adversely affect the work-from-home operations of our employees on the west coast. Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business. While we seek to partner with organizations that mitigate their business risks associated with climate change, we recognize that there are inherent risks wherever business is conducted. Access to clean water and reliable energy in the communities where we conduct our business, whether for our offices or for our vendors, is a priority. Our major sites in California, Utah and India are vulnerable to climate change effects. For example, in California, increasing intensity of drought 32 throughout the state and annual periods of wildfire danger increase the probability of planned power outages in the communities where we work and live. While this danger has a low-assessed risk of disrupting normal business operations, it has the potential impact on employees’ abilities to commute to work or to work from home and stay connected effectively due to COVID-19 in 2020. Climate-related events, including the increasing frequency of extreme weather events and their impact on U.S., India and other major regions’ critical infrastructure, have the potential to disrupt our business, our third-party suppliers, and/or the business of our customers, and may cause us to experience higher attrition, losses, and additional costs to maintain or resume operations. To accurately assess and take potential proactive action as appropriate, Adobe is aligned with the guidelines of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures recommendations and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board environmental metrics. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations We are subject to risks associated with compliance with laws and regulations globally, which may harm our business. We are a global company subject to varied and complex laws, regulations and customs, both domestically and internationally. These laws and regulations relate to a number of aspects of our business, including trade protection, import and export control, data and transaction processing security, payment card industry data security standards, records management, user-generated content hosted on websites we operate, privacy practices, data residency, corporate governance, anti-trust and competition, employee and third-party complaints, anti-corruption, gift policies, conflicts of interest, securities regulations and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The application of these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear and may at times conflict. For example, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. regulations applicable to us, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We cannot provide assurance that our employees, contractors, agents and business partners will not take actions in violation of our internal policies or U.S. laws. Compliance with these laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in our business practices that result in reduced revenue and profitability. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities have imposed, and may continue to impose, protocols and restrictions intended to contain the spread of the virus, including limitations on the size of gatherings, closures of work facilities, schools, public buildings and businesses, quarantines, lockdowns and travel restrictions. Such restrictions have disrupted and may continue to disrupt our business operations and limit our ability to perform critical functions. In addition, approximately 48% of our employees are located outside the United States. Accordingly, we are exposed to changes in laws governing our employee relationships in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including laws and regulations regarding wage and hour requirements, fair labor standards, employee data privacy, unemployment tax rates, workers’ compensation rates, citizenship requirements and payroll and other taxes, which likely would have a direct impact on our operating costs. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and security issues and expanding laws could impact our business models and expose us to increased liability. As a global company, Adobe is subject to global data privacy and security laws, regulations and codes of conduct that apply to our various business units. These laws and regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving and differing (sometimes conflicting) interpretations. Government officials and regulators, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data. This increased scrutiny may result in new interpretations of existing laws, thereby further impacting Adobe’s business. Globally, new and emerging laws, such as the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) and the Network and Information Systems Directive (“NISD”) in Europe, state laws in the U.S. on privacy, data and related technologies, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act and the recently passed California Privacy Rights Act, as well as industry self-regulatory codes create new compliance obligations and expand the scope of potential liability, either jointly or severally with our customers and suppliers. While we have invested in readiness to comply with applicable requirements, these new and emerging laws, regulations and codes may affect our ability (and our enterprise customers’ ability) to reach current and prospective customers, to respond to both enterprise and individual customer requests under the laws (such as individual rights of access, correction and deletion of their personal information), and to implement our business models effectively. These new laws may also impact our innovation and business drivers in developing new and emerging technologies (e.g., artificial intelligence and machine learning). These requirements, among others, may impact demand for our offerings and force us to bear the burden of more onerous obligations in our contracts. Any perception of our practices, products or services as a violation of individual privacy rights may subject us to public criticism, class action lawsuits, reputational harm, or investigations or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability. Additionally, we collect and store 33 information on behalf of our business customers and if our customers fail to comply with contractual obligations or applicable laws, it could result in litigation or reputational harm to us. Transferring personal information across international borders is complex and subject to legal and regulatory requirements as well as active litigation and enforcement in a number of jurisdictions around the world, each of which could have an adverse impact to our ability to process and transfer personal data as part of our business operations. For example, European data transfers outside the European Economic Area are highly regulated and litigated. The mechanisms that we and many other companies rely upon for European data transfers (e.g., Privacy Shield and Model Clauses) are the subject of recent judicial decisions by the Court of Justice of the European Union resulting in the invalidation of Privacy Shield. We are closely monitoring the impact of the Privacy Shield invalidation and other developments related to the remaining valid transfer mechanisms available for transferring personal data outside the European Union and other countries that have similar trans-border data flow requirements and adjusting our practices accordingly. The invalidation of Privacy Shield and the open questions related to the validity of Model Clauses have resulted in some changes in the obligations required to provide our services in the European Union and could expose us to potential sanctions and fines for non-compliance. Several other countries, including Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, and Japan, have also established specific legal requirements for cross-border transfers of personal information. Other countries, such as India, are considering requirements for data localization (e.g., where personal data must remain in the country). If other countries implement more restrictive regulations for cross-border data transfers (or do not permit data to leave the country of origin), such developments could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, in those jurisdictions. Our intellectual property portfolio is a valuable asset and we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights, including our source code, from infringement or unauthorized copying, use or disclosure. Our intellectual property portfolio is a valuable asset. Infringement or misappropriation of our patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights could result in lost revenues and ultimately reduce their value. Preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our intellectual property rights is inherently difficult. We actively combat software piracy as we enforce our intellectual property rights, but we nonetheless lose significant revenue due to illegal use of our software. If piracy activities continue at historical levels or increase, they may further harm our business. We apply for patents in the U.S. and internationally to protect our newly created technology and if we are unable to obtain patent protection for the technology described in our pending patent, or if the patent is not obtained timely, this could result in revenue loss, adverse effects on operations and harm to our business. We offer our products and services in foreign countries and we may seek intellectual property protection from those foreign legal systems. Some of those foreign countries may not have as robust or comprehensive of intellectual property protection laws and schemes as those offered in the U.S. In some foreign countries, the mechanisms to enforce intellectual property rights may be inadequate to protect our technology, which could harm our business. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs through security breach, cyber-attack or otherwise, we could lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could cause us to lose customers and could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, contractors, vendors and partners. However, there is a risk that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization, and in these situations, enforcing our rights may be difficult or costly. We may incur substantial costs defending against third parties alleging that we infringe their proprietary rights. We have been, are currently, and may in the future be, subject to claims, negotiations and complex, protracted litigation relating to disputes regarding the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent rights. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention of management and key personnel. We may not prevail in every lawsuit or dispute. Third-party intellectual property disputes, including those initiated by patent assertion entities, could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from licensing certain of our products or offering certain of our services, subject us to injunctions restricting our sale of products or services, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers, including contractual provisions under various license arrangements and service agreements. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third-party intellectual property rights for use in our products, in some cases to fulfill contractual obligations with our customers. Any of these occurrences could significantly harm our business. 34 Changes in accounting principles, or interpretations thereof, could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles, how the principles are interpreted, or the adoption of new accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported results, and could even retroactively affect previously reported transactions, and may require that we make significant changes to our systems, processes and controls. Changes resulting from these new standards may result in materially different financial results and may require that we change how we process, analyze and report financial information and that we change financial reporting controls. Such changes in accounting principles may have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and income, or cause an adverse deviation from our revenue and profitability targets, which may negatively impact our financial results. Changes in tax rules and regulations, or interpretations thereof, may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“U.S. Tax Act”), enacted into law on December 22, 2017, changed existing U.S. tax law applicable to us and included certain international provisions effective for us starting in fiscal 2019. Among other considerations, the applicability and impact of these new tax provisions, and of other international tax law changes could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and cash flows in years beyond fiscal 2020. . Our income tax expense has differed from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to discrete items including, but not limited to, the effects of tax credits, net tax benefits from trading structure changes, tax benefits from stock-based compensation and settlements of tax examinations, and to net tax on earnings from foreign operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. Our future effective tax rates are likely to be unfavorably affected by changes in the tax rates in jurisdictions where our income is earned, the geographic mix of earnings, our repatriation policy or the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, by changes in or our interpretation of tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, or by unexpected negative changes in business and market conditions that could reduce certain tax benefits. In addition, in countries where we conduct business and in jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax, including those covered by governing bodies that enact tax laws applicable to us, such as the European Commission of the European Union, we are subject to potential changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals such as Adobe. These countries, other governmental bodies and intergovernmental economic organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, have or could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined in their jurisdictions that are contrary to the way in which we have interpreted and historically applied the rules and regulations described above in such jurisdictions. In the current global tax policy environment, any changes in laws, regulations and interpretations related to these assertions could adversely affect our effective tax rates, cause us to respond by making changes to our business structure, or result in other costs to us which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Moreover, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. These tax examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices, application of tax rules and other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from these examinations. We cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Contracting with government entities exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government procurement process. We provide products and services, directly and indirectly, to a variety of government entities, both domestically and internationally. Risks associated with licensing and selling products and services to government entities include more extended sales and collection cycles, varying governmental budgeting processes and adherence to complex procurement regulations and other government-specific contractual requirements. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including 35 termination of contracts, payment of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business, as well as harm to our reputation and financial results. Risks Related to Financial Performance or General Economic Conditions Uncertainty about current and future economic conditions and other adverse changes in general political conditions in any of the major countries in which we do business could adversely affect our operating results. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in economic and political conditions, both domestically and globally, including trends toward protectionism and nationalism, uncertainty caused by the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union (Brexit), and other events beyond our control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, the business downturn caused by the pandemic may adversely impact the businesses and financial health of many of our customers and hurt their creditworthiness (e.g., international travel bans impacting customers in the travel and hospitality industries). As a result, current or potential customers may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services. Uncertainty about the effects of current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers, suppliers and partners makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases, advertising spending or marketing spending, and we have already experienced and may continue to experience the impact of a global decline in advertising spend as the pandemic continues to unfold. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, more extended sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Among our customers are government entities, including the U.S. federal government, and our revenue could decline if spending cuts impact the government’s ability to purchase our products and services. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower or impaired collections on accounts receivable, which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. A disruption in financial markets could impair our banking partners, on which we rely for operating cash management and affect our derivative counterparties. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Political instability or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Subscription offerings could create risks related to the timing of revenue recognition. We generally recognize revenue from subscription offerings ratably over the terms of their subscription agreements, which typically range from 1 to 36 months. As a result, most of the subscription revenue we report in each quarter is the result of subscription agreements entered into during previous quarters. Any reduction in new or renewed subscriptions in a quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results until a later quarter. Declines in new or renewed subscriptions may decrease our revenue in future quarters. Lower sales, reduced demand for our products and services, and increases in our attrition rate may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model could also make it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue from subscription-based or hosted services through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers will be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Additionally, in connection with our sales efforts to enterprise customers and our use of ETLAs, a number of factors could affect our revenue, including longer-than-expected sales and implementation cycles, potential deferral of revenue and alternative licensing arrangements. If any of our assumptions about revenue from our subscription-based offerings prove incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates due to the global scope of our business. Global economic events, including trade disputes, economic sanctions and emerging market volatility, and associated uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate, and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may introduce further volatility. We attempt to mitigate a portion of these risks through foreign currency hedging based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-offs among risk, opportunity and expense. We regularly review our program to partially hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and make adjustments as necessary. Our hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable movement in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 36 Revenue, margin or earnings shortfalls or the volatility of the market generally may cause the market price of our stock to decline. In the past, the market price for our common stock experienced significant fluctuations and it may do so in the future. A number of factors may affect the market price for our common stock, such as: • shortfalls in, or changes in expectations about, our revenue, margins, earnings, Annualized Recurring Revenue (“ARR”), sales of our Digital Experience offerings, or other key performance metrics; • changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • whether our results meet analysts’ expectations; • compression or expansion of multiples used by investors and analysts to value high technology SaaS companies; • the announcement of new products or services, product enhancements, service introductions, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or our competitors; • the loss of large customers or our inability to increase sales to existing customers, retain customers or attract new customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations, changes in the competitive landscape generally and developments in our industry; • general socio-economic, political or market conditions; • macroeconomic conditions and the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; and • unusual events such as significant acquisitions by us or our competitors, divestitures, litigation, regulatory actions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general may experience uneven investor confidence, which may cause the market price for our common stock to decline for reasons unrelated to our operating performance. Volatility in the market price of a company’s securities for a period of time may increase the company’s susceptibility to securities class action litigation. Oftentimes, this type of litigation is expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources which may adversely affect our business. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, then we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings. GAAP requires us to test for goodwill impairment at least annually. In addition, we review our goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include declines in stock price, market capitalization or cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. Depending on the results of our review, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets were determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. We have issued $4.15 billion of notes in debt offerings and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. We have $4.15 billion in senior unsecured notes and a $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement, which is currently undrawn. This debt may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; • requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash flows from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flows available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. 37 Our senior unsecured notes and senior unsecured credit agreement imposes restrictions on us and require us to maintain compliance with specified covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the noteholders or lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding debt may be declared immediately due and payable. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities, as well as the potential costs associated with a refinancing of our debt. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could increase. Downgrades in our credit ratings could also affect the terms of any such financing and restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the financial markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of November 27, 2020 consisted of asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, foreign government securities, money market mutual funds, municipal securities and time deposits. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. Should financial market conditions worsen in the future, including from impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. In addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. As of November 27, 2020, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions, market liquidity or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. Discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2019 as compared to fiscal 2018 is included in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 29, 2019, filed with the SEC on January 21, 2020. ACQUISITIONS Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.5 billion in cash consideration. Workfront will be integrated into our Digital Experience reportable segment for financial reporting purposes in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2019, we acquired the remaining interest in Allegorithmic SAS (“Allegorithmic”), a privately held 3D editing and authoring software company for gaming and entertainment, for approximately $106 million in cash consideration, and integrated it into our Digital Media reportable segment. During fiscal 2018, we completed our acquisitions of Marketo, a privately held marketing cloud platform company, for approximately $4.73 billion and Magento, a privately held commerce platform company, for approximately $1.64 billion, and integrated them into our Digital Experience reportable segment. We also completed other immaterial business acquisitions during the fiscal years presented. Pro forma information has not been presented for our other acquisitions during the fiscal years presented as the impact to our Consolidated Financial Statements was not material. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our assumptions, judgments and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our assumptions, judgments and estimates on a regular basis. We also discuss our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates involved in the accounting for revenue recognition, business combinations and income taxes have the greatest potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. These areas are key components of our results of operations and are based on complex rules requiring us to make judgments and estimates, and consequently, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers may include multiple goods and services. For example, some of our offerings include both on-premise and/or on-device software licenses and cloud services. Determining whether the software licenses and the cloud services are distinct from each other, and therefore performance obligations to be accounted for separately, or not distinct from each other, and therefore part of a single performance obligation, may require significant judgment. We have concluded that the on-premise/on-device software licenses and cloud services provided in our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud subscription offerings are not distinct from each other such that revenue from each offering should be recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the cloud services are provided. In reaching this conclusion, we considered the nature of our promise to Creative Cloud and Document Cloud customers, which is to provide a complete end-to-end creative design or document workflow solution that operates seamlessly across multiple devices and teams. We fulfill this promise by providing access to a solution that integrates cloud-based and on-premise/on-device features that, together through their integration, provide functionalities, utility and workflow efficiencies that could not be obtained from either the on-premise/on-device software or cloud services on their own. Cloud-based features that are integral to our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings and that work together with the on-premise/on-device software include, but are not limited to: Creative Cloud Libraries, which enable customers to access their work, settings, preferences and other assets seamlessly across desktop and mobile devices and collaborate across teams in 42 real time; shared reviews which enable simultaneous editing and commenting of PDFs across desktop, mobile and web; automatic cloud rendering of a design which enables it to be worked on in multiple mediums; and Sensei, Adobe’s cloud-hosted artificial intelligence and machine learning framework, which enables features such as automated photo-editing, photograph content-awareness, natural language processing, optical character recognition and automated document tagging. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions with respect to intangible assets and deferred revenue obligations. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience, market conditions and information obtained from management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: • future expected cash flows from software license sales, subscriptions, support agreements, consulting contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; • historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; • the acquired company’s trade name and trademarks as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and trademarks will continue to be used in the combined company’s product portfolio; • the expected use of the acquired assets; and • discount rates. In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the deferred revenue obligations assumed. The estimated fair value of these obligations is determined utilizing a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Accounting for Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, income tax expense is recognized for the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year. In addition, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and for operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. Management must make assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes and also our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Our assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the current provision for income taxes take into account current tax laws, our interpretation of current tax laws and possible outcomes of current and future audits conducted by foreign and domestic tax authorities. We have established reserves for income taxes to address potential exposures involving tax positions that could be challenged by tax authorities. In addition, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. These tax examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices, application of tax rules, and other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from such examinations. We believe such estimates to be reasonable; however, we cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have a significant impact on the amounts provided for income taxes in our Consolidated Financial Statements. During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights (“IP rights”) which resulted in the establishment of deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $ 224 million and $ 1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively. The determination of the fair value involves significant judgment on future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that could affect either the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. The sustainability of our future tax benefits is dependent upon the acceptance of the valuation estimates and assumptions by the taxing authorities. 43 Recent Accounting Pronouncements RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview of 2020 For our fiscal 2020, we experienced strong demand across our Digital Media offerings consistent with the continued execution of our long-term plans with respect to this segment. In our Digital Experience segment, we continued to experience growth in software-based subscription revenue across our portfolio of offerings. During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to discontinue our transaction-driven Advertising Cloud offerings, allowing us to focus our investment on strategic growth initiatives. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined Advertising Cloud with our previous Publishing segment. This realignment is consistent with how we manage our Digital Experience segment to better reflect the strategic shift related to Advertising Cloud and to align with our overall core value proposition of delivering on customer experience management. Digital Media In our Digital Media segment, we are a market leader with Creative Cloud, our subscription-based offering which provides desktop tools, mobile apps and cloud-based services for designing, creating and publishing rich and immersive content. Creative Cloud delivers value with deep, cross-product integration, frequent product updates and feature enhancements, cloud-enabled services including storage and syncing of files across users’ machines, machine learning and artificial intelligence, access to marketplace, social and community-based features with our Adobe Stock and Behance services, app creation capabilities, tools which assist with enterprise deployments and team collaboration, and affordable pricing for cost-sensitive customers. We offer Creative Cloud for individuals, students, teams and enterprises. We expect Creative Cloud will drive sustained long-term revenue growth through a continued expansion of our customer base by acquiring new users as a result of low cost of entry and delivery of additional features and value to Creative Cloud, as well as keeping existing customers current on our latest release. We have also built out a marketplace for Creative Cloud subscribers to enable the delivery and purchase of stock content in our Adobe Stock service. Overall, our strategy with Creative Cloud is designed to enable us to increase our revenue with users, attract more new customers, and grow our recurring and predictable revenue stream that is recognized ratably. We continue to implement strategies that will accelerate awareness, consideration and purchase of subscriptions to our Creative Cloud offerings. These strategies include increasing the value Creative Cloud users receive, such as offering new desktop and mobile applications, as well as targeted promotions and offers that attract past customers and potential users to try out and ultimately subscribe to Creative Cloud. Because of the shift towards Creative Cloud subscriptions and Enterprise Term License Agreements (“ETLAs”), revenue from perpetual licensing of our Creative products has been immaterial to our business. We are also a market leader with our Document Cloud offerings built around our Adobe Acrobat family of products, including Adobe Acrobat Reader DC, and a set of integrated mobile apps and cloud-based document services, including Adobe Scan and Adobe Sign. Acrobat provides reliable creation and exchange of electronic documents, regardless of platform or application source type. Document Cloud, which we believe enhances the way people manage critical documents at home, in the office and across devices, includes Adobe Acrobat DC and Adobe Sign, and a set of integrated services enabling users to create, review, approve, sign and track documents whether on a desktop or mobile device. Adobe Acrobat DC is offered both through subscription and perpetual licenses. 44 Annualized Recurring Revenue (“ARR”) is currently the key performance metric our management uses to assess the health and trajectory of our overall Digital Media segment. ARR should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue, unbilled backlog and remaining performance obligation as ARR is a performance metric and is not intended to be combined with any of these items. We adjust our reported ARR on an annual basis to reflect any material exchange rates changes. Our reported ARR results in the current fiscal year are based on currency rates set at the beginning of the year and held constant throughout the year. We calculate ARR as follows: Creative ARR exiting fiscal 2020 was $8.72 billion, up from $7.25 billion at the end of fiscal 2019. Document Cloud ARR exiting fiscal 2020 was $1.46 billion, up from $1.08 billion at the end of fiscal 2019. Total Digital Media ARR grew to $10.18 billion at the end of fiscal 2020, up from $8.33 billion at the end of fiscal 2019. Revaluing our ending ARR for fiscal 2020 using currency rates at the beginning of fiscal 2021, our Digital Media ARR at the end of fiscal 2020 would be $10.26 billion or approximately $77 million higher than the ARR reported above. Our success in driving growth in ARR has positively affected our revenue growth. Creative revenue in fiscal 2020 was $7.74 billion, up from $6.48 billion in fiscal 2019 and representing 19% year-over-year growth. Document Cloud revenue in fiscal 2020 was $1.50 billion, up from $1.22 billion in fiscal 2019 and representing 22% year-over-year revenue growth and reflecting an increase in demand driven by the shift to remote work as well as our continued efforts to transition Document Cloud to a subscription-based model. Total Digital Media segment revenue grew to $9.23 billion in fiscal 2020, up from $7.71 billion in fiscal 2019 and representing 20% year-over-year growth. These increases were driven by strong net new user growth, including those resulting from the current work-from-home environment reflecting expanded digital engagement. Digital Experience We are a market leader in the fast-growing category addressed by our Digital Experience segment. The Adobe Experience Cloud applications, services and platform are designed to manage customer journeys, enable shoppable experiences and deliver intelligence for businesses of any size in any industry. Our differentiation and competitive advantage is strengthened by our ability to use the Adobe Experience Platform to connect our comprehensive set of solutions. Adobe Experience Cloud is focused on delivering solutions for our enterprise customers across the following strategic growth pillars: • Customer data and insights. Our solutions deliver real-time customer profiles and intelligence across the customer journey. Our offerings include Adobe Experience Platform, Adobe Analytics, Adobe Audience Manager, Customer Journey Analytics, Real-time Customer Data Platform and Intelligent Services. • Content and commerce. Our solutions to help customers manage, deliver, test, target and optimize content delivery and enable shopping experiences that scale from mid-market to enterprise businesses. Our offerings include Adobe Experience Manager, Adobe Target and Adobe Commerce. • Customer journey management. Our solutions help businesses manage, personalize and orchestrate campaigns and customer journeys across B2E use cases. Our offerings include Adobe Campaign, Marketo Engage and Journey Orchestration. In addition to chief marketing officers, chief revenue officers and digital marketers, users of our Digital Experience solutions include advertisers, campaign managers, publishers, data analysts, content managers, social marketers, marketing executives and information management and technology executives. These customers often are involved in workflows that utilize other Adobe products, such as our Digital Media offerings. By combining the creativity of our Digital Media business 45 with the science of our Digital Experience business, we help our customers to more efficiently and effectively make, manage, measure and monetize their content across every channel with an end-to-end workflow and feedback loop. We utilize a direct sales force to market and license our Digital Experience solutions, as well as an extensive ecosystem of partners, including marketing agencies, systems integrators and independent software vendors that help license and deploy our solutions to their customers. We have made significant investments to broaden the scale and size of all of these routes to market, and our recent financial results reflect the success of these investments. Digital Experience revenue for all fiscal years presented has been updated to reflect the Advertising Cloud segment move. Digital Experience revenue was $3.13 billion in fiscal 2020, up from $2.80 billion in fiscal 2019 which represents 12% year-over-year growth. Driving this increase was the increase in subscription revenue across our offerings which grew to $2.66 billion in fiscal 2020 from $2.28 billion in fiscal 2019, representing 17% year-over-year growth. COVID-19 UPDATE In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a disease caused by a novel strain of the coronavirus (COVID-19) to be a pandemic. This pandemic has had widespread, rapidly-evolving and unpredictable impacts on global societies, economies, financial markets and business practices. Federal and state governments have implemented measures in an effort to contain the virus, including physical distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations on public gatherings, work from home, supply chain logistical changes and closure of non-essential businesses. Our focus remains on promoting employee health and safety, serving our customers and ensuring business continuity. As a result, we have taken action to direct our teams to work from home, suspend travel and replace in-person events such as Adobe Summit and MAX, with digital events through July 2021. During the pandemic, digital has become the primary way for people to connect, work, learn and be entertained, and for businesses to engage with customers. This macro trend towards all things digital has increased the importance and relevance of our solutions and accelerated the tailwinds that benefit our business, which contributed to our continued growth year over year. However, while our revenue and earnings are relatively predictable as a result of our subscription-based business model, the broader implications of the pandemic on our results of operations and overall financial performance remain uncertain. Financial Performance Summary for Fiscal 2020 • Total Digital Media ARR of approximately $10.18 billion as of November 27, 2020 increased by $1.85 billion, or 22%, from $8.33 billion as of November 29, 2019. The increase in our Digital Media ARR was primarily due to new user adoption of our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings. • Creative revenue of $7.74 billion increased by $1.25 billion, or 19%, during fiscal 2020, from $6.48 billion in fiscal 2019. Document Cloud revenue of $1.50 billion increased by $272 million, or 22%, during fiscal 2020, from $1.22 billion in fiscal 2019. The increases were primarily due to subscription revenue growth associated with our Creative Cloud and Document Cloud offerings. • Digital Experience revenue of $3.13 billion increased by $330 million, or 12%, during fiscal 2020, from $2.80 billion in fiscal 2019. The increase was primarily due to subscription revenue growth across our offerings. • Remaining performance obligation of $11.34 billion as of November 27, 2020 increased by $1.52 billion, or 15%, from $9.82 billion as of November 29, 2019, primarily due to new contracts and renewals for our Digital Media and Digital Experience offerings. • Cost of revenue of $1.72 billion increased by $49 million, or 3%, during fiscal 2020, from $1.67 billion in fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in hosting services and data center costs, offset in large part by decreases in Advertising Cloud media costs. • Operating expenses of $6.91 billion increased by $679 million, or 11%, during fiscal 2020, from $6.23 billion in fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in base and incentive compensation and related benefits costs, as well as increased marketing spend. These increases were offset in part by decreases in travel-related expenses. • Net income of $5.26 billion increased by $2.31 billion, or 78%, during fiscal 2020 from $2.95 billion in fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in revenue and the non-recurring benefit from income taxes resulting from intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights. 46 • Net cash flows from operations of $5.73 billion during fiscal 2020 increased by $1.31 billion, or 30%, from $4.42 billion during fiscal 2019 primarily due to higher net income adjusted for the net effect of non-cash items. Presentation Changes In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we moved our Advertising Cloud offerings from our Digital Experience segment into our new Publishing and Advertising segment, which combined our Advertising Cloud offerings with our previous Publishing segment. This realignment is consistent with how we manage our Digital Experience segment to better reflect the strategic shift related to Advertising Cloud and to align with our overall core value proposition of delivering on customer experience management. Further, we reclassified revenue and related cost of revenue of our Advertising Cloud offerings from subscription to services and other on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Financial information for all fiscal years presented has been updated to reflect these reclassifications. There were no other updates to disclosures included in our prior year report in relation to the reclassifications. Revenue Our financial results for fiscal 2020 and 2019 are presented in accordance with Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which was adopted under the modified retrospective method at the beginning of fiscal 2019. Fiscal 2018 results have not been restated which limits its comparability with other fiscal years presented. Subscription Our subscription revenue is comprised primarily of fees we charge for our subscription and hosted service offerings, and related support, including Creative Cloud and certain of our Adobe Experience Cloud and Document Cloud services. We primarily recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of agreements with our customers, beginning with commencement of service. Subscription revenue related to certain offerings, where fees are based on a number of transactions and invoicing is aligned to the pattern of performance, customer benefit and consumption, are recognized on a usage basis. We have the following reportable segments: Digital Media, Digital Experience, and Publishing and Advertising. Subscription revenue by reportable segment for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. Product Our product revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to licenses for on-premise software purchased on a perpetual basis, for a fixed period of time or based on usage for certain of our OEM and royalty agreements. We primarily recognize 47 product revenue at the point in time the software is available to the customer, provided all other revenue recognition criteria are met. Services and Other Our services and other revenue is comprised primarily of fees related to consulting, training, maintenance and support and our advertising offerings. We typically sell our consulting contracts on a time-and-materials and fixed-fee basis. These revenues are recognized as the services are performed for time and materials contracts and on a relative performance basis for fixed-fee contracts. Training revenues are recognized as the services are performed. Our maintenance and support offerings, which entitle customers, partners and developers to receive desktop product upgrades and enhancements or technical support, depending on the offering, are generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement. Transaction-based advertising revenue is recognized on a usage basis as we satisfy the performance obligations to our customers. Segments In fiscal 2020, we categorized our products into the following reportable segments: • Digital Media —Our Digital Media segment provides tools and solutions that enable individuals, teams and enterprises to create, publish, promote and monetize their digital content anywhere. Our customers include content creators, experience designers, app developers, enthusiasts, students, social media users and creative professionals, as well as marketing departments and agencies, companies and publishers. Our customers also include knowledge workers who create, collaborate on and distribute documents and creative content. • Digital Experience —Our Digital Experience segment provides products, services and solutions for creating, managing, executing, measuring, monetizing and optimizing customer experiences from analytics to commerce. Our customers include marketers, advertisers, agencies, publishers, merchandisers, merchants, web analysts, data scientists, developers, marketing executives, information management and technology executives, product development executives, and sales and support executives. • Publishing and Advertising —Our Publishing and Advertising segment addresses market opportunities ranging from the diverse authoring and publishing needs of technical and business publishing to our legacy type and OEM printing businesses. It also includes our platforms for Advertising Cloud, web conferencing, document and forms, and Primetime. Segment Information Digital Media Revenue from Digital Media increased $1.53 billion during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019, driven by increases in revenue associated with our Creative and Document Cloud offerings due to increased demand and digital engagement amid the work-from-home environment. Revenue associated with our Creative offerings, which includes our Creative Cloud, perpetually licensed Creative and stock photography offerings, increased during fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in net new subscriptions across our Creative Cloud offerings. Document Cloud revenue, which includes our Acrobat product family and Adobe Sign service, increased during fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in subscription revenue driven by strong adoption of our Document Cloud offerings including Adobe Sign. 48 Digital Experience Revenue from Digital Experience increased $330 million during fiscal 2020, as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to subscription revenue growth across our offerings of which the largest contributors were our AEM and Marketo Engage offerings. Geographical Information Overall revenue during fiscal 2020 increased in all geographic regions as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to increases in Digital Media revenue and, to a lesser extent, increases in Digital Experience revenue. Within each geographic region, the fluctuations in revenue by reportable segment were attributable to the factors noted in the segment information above. Included in the overall change in revenue for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 were impacts associated with foreign currency as shown below. Our cash flow hedging program is used to mitigate a portion of the foreign currency impact to revenue. During fiscal 2020, the U.S. Dollar strengthened largely against EMEA currencies and the Australian Dollar, which decreased revenue in U.S. Dollar equivalents. The foreign currency impact to revenue was partially offset by gains primarily from our Euro cash flow hedging program. 49 Cost of Revenue _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1% Subscription Cost of subscription revenue consists of third-party hosting services and data center costs, royalty fees and other expenses related to operating our network infrastructure, including depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, salaries and related expenses of network operations, implementation, account management and technical support personnel, amortization of certain intangible assets and allocated overhead. Cost of subscription revenue increased due to the following: Product Cost of product revenue is primarily comprised of third-party royalties, amortization related to purchased intangibles and acquired rights to use technology, excess and obsolete inventory, localization costs and the costs associated with the manufacturing of our products. Services and Other Cost of services and other revenue is primarily comprised of employee-related and other associated costs incurred to provide consulting services, training and product support. Cost of services and other also includes media costs related to impressions purchased from third-party ad inventory sources for our transaction-based Adobe Advertising Cloud offerings, which we began to discontinue in the second quarter of fiscal 2020. Cost of services and other fluctuations were due to the following: 50 Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses for software developers, contracted development efforts, third party fees for hosting services, related facilities costs and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software development. Research and development expenses increased due to the following: We believe that investments in research and development, including the recruiting and hiring of software developers, are critical to remain competitive in the marketplace and are directly related to continued timely development of new and enhanced offerings and solutions. We will continue to focus on long-term opportunities available in our end markets and make significant investments in the development of our subscription and service offerings, applications and tools. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salary and benefit expenses, amortization of contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our sales, marketing, order management and global supply chain management personnel. Sales and marketing expenses also include the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and events, public relations and other market development programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased due to the following: 51 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and benefit expenses, travel expenses and related facilities costs for our finance, facilities, human resources, legal, information services and executive personnel. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and accounting fees, provision for bad debts, expenses associated with computer equipment and software used in the administration of the business, charitable contributions and various forms of insurance. General and administrative expenses increased due to the following: During fiscal 2020, we recorded net charges related to the cancellation of our corporate events due to concerns over the pandemic. Certain of these charges were reversed as we successfully negotiated the right to apply certain commitments to other events. Bad debt expense increased during fiscal 2020 primarily due to specific reserves for certain categories of customers that were more impacted by the changes in the macroeconomic environment as a result of the pandemic. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization expense decreased during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to certain intangible assets from previous acquisitions, including from Marketo and Omniture, becoming fully amortized during the year. Non-Operating Income (Expense), Net _________________________________________ (*) Percentage is less than 1%. (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Interest Expense Interest expense represents interest associated with our debt instruments. Interest on our Notes is payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 1 and August 1. Interest on our Term Loan, which was terminated in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, was payable periodically at the end of each interest period. Floating interest payments on the interest rate swaps, which matured in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, were paid monthly and the fixed-rate interest receivable on the swaps was received semi-annually concurrent with the Notes interest payments. Interest expense decreased during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to lower average interest rates on our debt instruments that were refinanced in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 52 Investment Gains (Losses), Net Investment gains (losses), net consists principally of unrealized holding gains and losses associated with our deferred compensation plan assets which are classified as trading securities, and gains and losses associated with our direct and indirect investments in privately held companies. Investment gains (losses), net decreased during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 primarily due to the gain recognized upon our acquisition of the remaining interest in Allegorithmic in January 2019. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term fixed income investments. Other income (expense), net also includes realized gains and losses on fixed income investments and foreign exchange gains and losses. Other income (expense), remained stable during fiscal 2020 primarily due to decreases in interest income driven by lower average interest rates offset by our change in methodology of accounting for foreign currency cash flow hedges. Effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, option premiums, which were previously recorded in other income (expense), net, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes _________________________________________ (**) Percentage is not meaningful. Our effective tax rate decreased by approximately 34 percentage points during fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019. The change is primarily due to non-recurring tax benefits resulting from the intra-entity transfers of certain intellectual property rights (“IP rights”) completed during fiscal 2020. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 was lower than the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21% primarily due to tax benefits resulting from the intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights, a favorable geographic mix of earnings and tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. During fiscal 2020, we completed intra-entity transfers of certain IP rights to our Irish subsidiary in order to better align the ownership of these rights with how our business operates. The transfers did not result in taxable gains; however, our Irish subsidiary recognized deferred tax assets for the book and tax basis difference of the transferred IP rights. As a result of these transactions, we recorded deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance, and related tax benefits of $224 million and $1.13 billion, based on the fair value of the IP rights transferred in April and November 2020, respectively. The tax-deductible amortization related to the transferred IP rights will be recognized over the period of economic benefit. In years beyond fiscal 2020, the change in the geographic mix of international income resulting from these transfers is anticipated to adversely affect our effective income tax rates and cash flows. However, the adverse impact to effective rates for cash paid for income taxes will be partially offset by future deductions on the transferred IP rights. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Act was enacted into law, which significantly changed existing U.S. tax law and includes many provisions applicable to us. Certain international provisions of the U.S. Tax Act, such as a tax on global intangible low-tax income, a base erosion and anti-abuse tax and a special tax deduction for foreign-derived intangible income, took effect in fiscal 2019. As the U.S. Treasury releases regulations that impact these provisions, we account for finalized regulations in the period of enactment. We recognize deferred tax assets to the extent that we believe these assets are more likely than not to be realized. In making such a determination, we considered all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, forecasted earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. On the basis of this evaluation, we continue to maintain a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount realizable. The total valuation allowance was $276 million as of November 27, 2020 and is primarily attributable to certain state and foreign credits and foreign intangible assets. 53 We are a United States-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. A significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our Irish subsidiaries. The current U.S. tax law provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017, including certain earnings that were not subject to the one-time transition or global intangible low-tax income tax. As we repatriate the undistributed foreign earnings for use in the U.S., the distributions will generally not be subject to further U.S. federal tax. In June 2020, California enacted legislation which includes a limitation on the utilization of research and development tax credits for a three-year period beginning in fiscal 2021. The net impact of the legislation is uncertain but is anticipated to increase our California tax and, consequently, adversely impact our effective tax rates for the three-year period beginning in fiscal 2021. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes The gross liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties were $201 million, $173 million and $196 million for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. If the total unrecognized tax benefits at November 27, 2020, November 29, 2019 and November 30, 2018 were recognized, $136 million, $116 million and $136 million would decrease the respective effective tax rates. The combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns were approximately $26 million and $25 million for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. These amounts were included in long-term income taxes payable in their respective years. The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain as are the amounts and timing of tax payments that are part of any audit settlement process. These events could cause large fluctuations in the balance sheet classification of our tax assets and liabilities. We believe that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that either certain audits will conclude or statutes of limitations on certain income tax examination periods will expire, or both. Given the uncertainties described above, we can only determine a range of estimated potential decreases in underlying unrecognized tax benefits ranging from $0 to approximately $20 million over the next 12 months. In addition, in countries where we conduct business and in jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax, including those covered by governing bodies that enact tax laws applicable to us, such as the European Commission of the European Union, we are subject to potential changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals such as Adobe. These countries, other governmental bodies and intergovernmental economic organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, have or could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined in their jurisdictions that are contrary to the way in which we have interpreted and historically applied the rules and regulations described above in such jurisdictions. In the current global tax policy environment, any changes in laws, regulations and interpretations related to these assertions could adversely affect our effective tax rates, cause us to respond by making changes to our business structure, or result in other costs to us which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Moreover, we are subject to the continual examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service  and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. These tax examinations are expected to focus on our intercompany transfer pricing practices, application of tax rules and other matters. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes and have reserved for potential adjustments that may result from these examinations. We cannot provide assurance that the final determination of any of these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. 54 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES This data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Working Capital Working capital as of November 27, 2020 and November 29, 2019 was $2.63 billion of a surplus and $1.70 billion of a deficit, respectively. During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we refinanced our 2.25 billion term loan due April 30, 2020 (“Term Loan”) and $900 million 4.75% senior notes due February 1, 2020 (“2020 Notes”). See the section titled “Cash Flows from Financing Activities” below. A summary of our cash flows for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 is as follows: Our primary source of cash is receipts from revenue and, to a lesser extent, proceeds from participation in the employee stock purchase plan. The primary uses of cash are our stock repurchase program as described below, payroll-related expenses, general operating expenses including marketing, travel and office rent, and cost of revenue. Other uses of cash include business acquisitions, purchases of property and equipment and payments for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. Cash Flows from Operating Activities For fiscal 2020, net cash provided by operating activities of $5.73 billion was primarily comprised of net income adjusted for the net effect of non-cash items. The primary working capital sources of cash were net income together with increases in deferred revenue and decreases in trade receivables, which were offset in part by increases in prepaid expenses and other assets. The increase in deferred revenue was primarily driven by Digital Media offerings with cloud-enabled services, and the decrease in trade receivables was largely attributable to strong collections. The primary working capital use of cash was due to increases in prepaid expenses and other assets driven by sales commissions paid and capitalized and, to a lesser extent, increases due to the timing of billings and payments associated with certain vendors. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For fiscal 2020, net cash used for investing activities of $414 million was primarily due to ongoing capital expenditures. These cash outflows were offset in part by proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For fiscal 2020, net cash used for financing activities of $3.49 billion was primarily due to payments for our treasury stock repurchases and taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards, which were offset by proceeds from re-issuance of treasury stock for our employee stock purchase plan. See the section titled “Stock Repurchase Program” discussed below. In February 2020, we issued $500 million of 1.70% senior notes due February 1, 2023 (“2023 Notes”), $500 million of 1.90% senior notes due February 1, 2025 (“1.90% 2025 Notes”), $850 million of 2.15% senior notes due February 1, 2027 (“2027 Notes”) and $1.30 billion of 2.30% senior notes due February 1, 2030 (“2030 Notes”). We used the proceeds to repay the Term Loan and 2020 Notes concurrently. 55 Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Considerations Our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances may fluctuate during fiscal 2021 due to changes in our planned cash outlay. Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the effects of the pandemic and other risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled “Risk Factors.” While the pandemic has not negatively impacted our liquidity and capital resources to date, it has led to increased disruption and volatility in capital markets and credit markets which could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources in the future. However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital, operating resource expenditure and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of November 27, 2020 consisted of asset-backed securities, corporate debt securities, foreign government securities, money market mutual funds, municipal securities and time deposits. We use professional investment management firms to manage a large portion of our invested cash. We have a $1 billion senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (“Revolving Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of lenders, providing for loans to us and certain of our subsidiaries through October 17, 2023. As of November 27, 2020, there were no outstanding borrowings under this credit agreement and the entire $1 billion credit line remains available for borrowing. As of November 27, 2020, we have $4.15 billion senior notes outstanding, consisting of the 2023 Notes, 1.90% 2025 Notes, 2027 Notes, 2030 Notes and the $1 billion of 3.25% senior notes due February 1, 2025 (the “3.25% 2025 Notes,” and together with the aforementioned notes, the “Notes”). The Notes rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. We expect to continue our investing activities, including short-term and long-term investments, purchases of computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, product support and administrative staff, and facilities expansion. As of November 27, 2020, we expect our capital investment to be approximately $550 million to $650 million, primarily to fund our San Jose and Bangalore construction projects through fiscal 2022. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to strategically acquire companies, products or technologies that are complementary to our business. Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we completed our acquisition of Workfront, a privately held company that provides a work management platform for marketers, for approximately $1.5 billion in cash consideration. See Note 3 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this acquisition . Stock Repurchase Program To facilitate our stock repurchase program, designed to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, we may repurchase shares in the open market or enter into structured repurchase agreements with third parties. In May 2018, our Board of Directors granted us an authority to repurchase up to $8 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, we entered into several structured stock repurchase agreements with large financial institutions, whereupon we provided them with prepayments totaling $3.05 billion, $2.75 billion, and $2.05 billion, respectively. We enter into these agreements in order to take advantage of repurchasing shares at a guaranteed discount to the Volume Weighted Average Price (“VWAP”) of our common stock over a specified period of time. We only enter into such transactions when the discount that we receive is expected to be higher than the foregone return on our cash prepayments to the financial institutions. There were no explicit commissions or fees on these structured repurchases. Under the terms of the agreements, there is no requirement for the financial institutions to return any portion of the prepayment to us. The financial institutions agree to deliver shares to us at monthly intervals during the contract term. The parameters used to calculate the number of shares deliverable are: the total notional amount of the contract, the number of trading days in the contract, the number of trading days in the interval and the average VWAP of our stock during the interval less the agreed upon discount. 56 The following is a summary of our structured stock repurchases executed with large financial institutions during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018: For fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, the prepayments were classified as treasury stock on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at the payment date, though only shares physically delivered to us by November 27, 2020, November 29, 2019 and November 30, 2018 were excluded from the computation of earnings per share. As of November 27, 2020, $255 million of prepayments remained under the agreement. Subsequent to November 27, 2020, we entered into a structured stock repurchase agreement with a large financial institution whereupon we provided them with a prepayment of $950 million. This amount will be classified as treasury stock on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Upon completion of the $950 million stock repurchase agreement, $1.1 billion remains under our May 2018 authority.  Further, in December 2020, our Board of Directors granted us additional authority to repurchase up to $15 billion in common stock through the end of fiscal 2024. We have not drawn from our new $15 billion authority as of the issuance of these financial statements. November 27, 2020 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments as of November 27, 2020 consist of our Notes and obligations under operating leases, royalty agreements and various service agreements. and Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of November 27, 2020: Senior Notes As of November 27, 2020, the carrying value of our Notes was $4.12 billion. Interest is payable semi-annually, in arrears on February 1 and August 1. At November 27, 2020, our maximum commitment for interest payments was $613 million for the remaining duration of our outstanding Notes. Covenants Our Revolving Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring us not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio. As of November 27, 2020, we were in compliance with this covenant. We believe this covenant will not impact our credit or cash in the coming fiscal year or restrict our ability to execute our business plan. Our Notes do not contain any financial covenants. Under the terms of our Revolving Credit Agreement, we are not prohibited from paying cash dividends unless payment would trigger an event of default or if one currently exists. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 57 Transition Taxes Liability Our transition tax liability which was accrued as a result of the U.S. Tax Act was approximately $390 million as of November 27, 2020 and is payable in installments through fiscal 2026. The U.S. Tax Act provides an exemption from federal income taxes for distributions from foreign subsidiaries made after December 31, 2017, including certain earnings that were not subject to the one-time transition or global intangible low-tax income tax. As we repatriate the undistributed foreign earnings for use in the U.S., the distributions will generally not be subject to further U.S. federal tax. Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes See above and for our discussion on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. Royalties We have certain royalty commitments associated with the licensing of certain offerings. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit sold or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Indemnifications In the normal course of business, we provide indemnifications of varying scope to customers and channel partners against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and from time to time, we are subject to claims by our customers under these indemnification provisions. Historically, costs related to these indemnification provisions have not been significant and we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnification provisions on our future results of operations. To the extent permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements whereby we indemnify our directors and officers for certain events or occurrences while the director or officer is or was serving at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the director’s or officer’s lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that limits our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid.