********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The Company faces risks in the normal course of business as it executes its strategy while demonstrating strong corporate responsibility.  Global, regional, and local events could have an adverse impact on its reputation, operations, and financial performance. Management directs a Company-wide ERM Program, with oversight from the Company’s Board of Directors.  The Company’s Audit Committee has the delegated risk management oversight responsibility and receives updates on the risk management processes and key risk factors on a quarterly basis. The Company, through its business unit, functional, and corporate teams, continually updates, assesses, monitors, and mitigates these and other business and compliance risks in accordance with the ERM Program as monitored by the ERM Program team and Chief Risk Officer. The risk factors that follow are the main risks that the ERM Program focuses on to protect and enhance shareholder value and promote socially responsible behaviors through intentional risk mitigation plans based on management-defined risk limits.  The areas of risk mitigation emphasis include operational efficiencies, cyber threat prevention, strategy, environmental, social, and governance solutions, economic factors, and food safety. 15 Global Operations Risks Human capital requirements may not be sufficient to effectively support global operations. ADM’s global operations function with trained individuals necessary for the processing, warehousing, and shipping of raw materials for products used in other areas of manufacturing or sold as inputs or products to third-party customers.  The availability of skilled trade and production workers has been a specific focus for the United States manufacturing industry.  The pandemic has put further strain on manufacturing labor amid fears of the pandemic, childcare challenges, along with the re-allocation friction resulting in some of the workforce shifts from manufacturing positions. The Company has various methods and tactics to mitigate potential shortfalls.  The inability to properly staff manufacturing facilities with skilled trades and hourly labor due to a limited number of qualified resources could negatively impact operations. The Company’s information technology (IT) systems, processes, and sites may suffer cyber security breaches, interruptions, or failures which may affect the Company’s ability to conduct its business. The Company’s operations rely on certain key IT systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, to provide critical data connectivity, information, and services for internal and external users.  These interactions include, but are not limited to: ordering and managing materials from suppliers; risk management activities; converting raw materials to finished products; inventory management; shipping products to customers; processing transactions; summarizing and reporting financial results of operations; human resources benefits and payroll management; and complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements.  The Company is implementing a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system and integrating it with various third party service providers on a worldwide basis as part of its ongoing business transformation program, which is expected to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of certain financial and business transaction processes and the underlying systems environment.  This will help the Company in mitigating the risk of instability in aging legacy systems and manual processes.  Increased IT security and social engineering threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of the Company’s IT systems, networks, and services, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the Company’s third party data.  The Company is subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data.  Compliance with and interpretation of various data privacy regulations continue to evolve and any violation could subject the Company to legal claims, regulatory penalties, and damage to its reputation.  The Company has put in place security measures to prevent, detect, and mitigate cyber-based attacks, and has instituted control procedures for cybersecurity incident responses and disaster recovery plans for its critical systems.  In addition, the Company monitors this risk on an ongoing basis to detect and correct any breaches, and reports metrics on the quality of the Company’s data security efforts and control environment to the highest level of management and to the Board of Directors.  However, if the Company’s IT systems are breached, damaged, or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, such as catastrophic events, power outages, security breaches, or cyber-based attacks, and the Company’s disaster recovery plans do not effectively mitigate the risks on a timely basis, the Company may suffer significant interruptions in its ability to manage its operations, loss of valuable data, actual or threatened legal actions, and damage to its reputation, which may adversely impact the Company’s revenues, operating results, and financial condition. The Company may be impacted by carbon emission regulations in multiple regions throughout the globe. A number of jurisdictions where the Company has operations have implemented or are in the process of implementing carbon pricing programs or regulations to reduce GHG emissions including, but not limited to, the United States, Canada, Mexico, the European Union and its member states, and China.  In particular, the State of Illinois recently enacted legislation intended to eliminate carbon emissions by 2050.  The Company’s operations located in countries with effective and applicable carbon pricing and regulatory programs, currently meet their obligations in this regard with no significant impact on the earnings and competitive position of the Company.  It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation, regulations or agreements.  Potential consequences of new obligations could include increased energy, transportation, raw material, and administrative costs, and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment.  The Company has programs and policies in place to expand responsible practices while reducing its environmental footprint and to help ensure compliance with laws and regulations. 16 The Company faces risks related to health epidemics, pandemics, and similar outbreaks. While ADM has effectively managed through the risks arising from the ongoing pandemic caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), and has implemented mitigation actions across global operations that has had a positive impact on its customers, employees, local communities, and other stakeholders, the Company could be materially impacted in the future if a more severe variant would arise causing disruptions far more severe than the Company has recently experienced.  In such circumstances, ADM may be unable to perform fully on its contractual obligations, critical global supply chain and logistical networks may be affected, and costs and working capital needs may increase.  These cost increases may not be fully recoverable or adequately covered by insurance.  In addition, demand for certain products that ADM produces, particularly biofuels and ingredients that go into food and beverages that support the food services channels, could be materially impacted from a prolonged COVID-19 variant outbreak or significant local resurgences of the virus, leading to additional government-imposed lockdowns, quarantines, or other restrictions. The Company is exposed to potential business disruption including, but not limited to, disruption of transportation services, disruption in the supply of non-commodity raw materials used in its processing operations, and other impacts resulting from acts of terrorism or war, natural disasters, pandemics, severe weather conditions, accidents, or other planned disruptions, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s operations rely on dependable and efficient transportation services the disruption of which could result in difficulties supplying materials to the Company’s facilities and impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to its customers in a timely manner.  The Company relies on access to navigable rivers and waterways in order to fulfill its transportation obligations more effectively.  In addition, if certain non-agricultural commodity raw materials, such as water or certain chemicals used in the Company’s processing operations, are not available, the Company’s business could be disrupted.  Any major lack of available water for use in certain of the Company’s processing operations could have a material adverse impact on operating results.  Certain factors which may impact the availability of non-agricultural commodity raw materials are out of the Company’s control including, but not limited to, disruptions resulting from weather, high or low river water conditions, economic conditions, manufacturing delays or disruptions at suppliers, shortage of materials, interruption of energy supply, and unavailable or poor supplier credit conditions. The assets and operations of the Company could be subject to extensive property damage and business disruption from various events which include, but are not limited to, acts of terrorism (for example, purposeful adulteration of the Company’s products), war, natural disasters, pandemics, severe weather conditions, accidents, explosions, fires, or other outages. The Company is continuing to enhance and deploy additional food safety and security procedures and controls to appropriately mitigate the risks of any adulteration of the Company’s products in the supply chain and finished products in production and distribution networks. In addition, the Company conforms to management systems, such as International Organization for Standardization (ISO) or other recognized global standards. The Company’s risk management strategies may not be effective. The Company has a Chief Risk Officer who oversees the ERM Program and regularly reports to the Board of Directors on the myriad of risks facing the Company and the Company’s strategies for mitigating those risks.  The Company’s business is affected by fluctuations in agricultural commodity cash prices and derivative prices, transportation costs, energy prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity markets.  The Company monitors position limits and counterparty risks and engages in other strategies and controls to manage these risks.  The Company regularly reports its aggregate commodity risk exposures to the Board of Directors through the ERM process.  The Company has an established commodity merchandising governance process that ensures proper position reporting and monitoring, limits approvals, and executes training on trade compliance, commodity regulatory reporting controls, and other policies.  The Company’s risk monitoring efforts may not be successful at detecting a significant risk exposure.  If these controls and strategies are not successful in mitigating the Company’s exposure to these fluctuations, it could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. 17 Legal Regulations and Compliance Risks The Company is subject to numerous laws, regulations, and mandates globally which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and forward strategy. The Company does business globally, connecting crops and markets in over 190 countries, and is required to comply with laws and regulations administered by the United States federal government as well as state, local, and non-U.S. governmental authorities in numerous areas including:  accounting and income taxes, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, global trade, trade sanctions, environmental, product safety, and handling and production of regulated substances.  The Company frequently faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due including questions regarding the timing, amount of deductions, the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions, and further risks related to changing tax laws domestically and globally.  Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or appropriately resolve these challenges could subject the Company to administrative, civil, and criminal remedies, including fines, penalties, disgorgement, injunctions, and recalls of its products, and damage to its reputation. The production of the Company’s products uses materials that can create emissions of certain regulated substances, including GHG emissions.  The Company has programs and policies in place (e.g., Corporate Sustainability Program, Commitment to Protecting Forests, Biodiversity and Communities, Environmental Policy, Strive 35 environmental goals, etc.) to expand responsible practices while reducing its environmental footprint and to help ensure compliance with laws and regulations.  Implementation of these programs and policies sometimes requires the acquisition of technology or capital investments at a cost to the Company.  Failure to comply with the laws and regulations can have serious consequences, including civil, administrative, and criminal penalties as well as a negative impact on the Company’s reputation, business, cash flows, and results of operations. In addition, changes to regulations or implementation of additional regulations - for example, the imposition of regulatory restrictions on greenhouse gases or regulatory modernization of food safety laws - may require the Company to modify existing processing facilities and/or processes which could significantly increase operating costs and adversely affect operating results. Government policies, mandates, and regulations specifically affecting the agricultural sector and related industries; regulatory policies or matters that affect a variety of businesses; taxation polices; and political instability could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. Agricultural production and trade flows are subject to government policies, mandates, regulations, and trade agreements, including taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies, incentives, foreign exchange rates, and import and export restrictions, including policies related to genetically modified organisms, traceability standards, sustainable practices, product safety and labeling, renewable fuels, and low carbon fuel mandates.  These policies can influence the planting of certain crops; the location and size of crop production; whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded; the volume and types of imports and exports; the availability and competitiveness of feedstocks as raw materials; the viability and volume of production of certain of the Company’s products; and industry profitability.  For example, changes in government policies or regulations of ethanol and biodiesel including, but not limited to, changes in the Renewable Fuel Standard program under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 in the United States, including the treatment of small refinery exemptions, can have an impact on the Company’s operating results.  International trade regulations can adversely affect agricultural commodity trade flows by limiting or disrupting trade between countries or regions.  Regulations of financial markets and instruments, including the Dodd-Frank Act, Consumer Protection Act, and the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, create uncertainty and may lead to additional risks and costs, and could adversely affect the Company’s futures commission merchant business and its agricultural commodity risk management practices.  Future government policies may adversely affect the supply of, demand for, and prices of the Company’s products; adversely affect the Company’s ability to deploy adequate hedging programs; restrict the Company’s ability to do business in its existing and target markets; and adversely affect the Company’s revenues and operating results. 18 The Company’s operating results could be affected by political instability and by changes in monetary, fiscal, trade, and environmental policies, laws, regulations, and acquisition approvals, creating risks including, but not limited to: changes in a country’s or region’s economic or political conditions, local labor conditions and regulations, and safety and environmental regulations; reduced protection of intellectual property rights; changes in the regulatory or legal environment; restrictions on currency exchange activities; currency exchange fluctuations; burdensome taxes and tariffs; enforceability of legal agreements and judgments; adverse tax, administrative agency or judicial outcomes; and regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases.  International risks and uncertainties, including changing social and economic conditions as well as terrorism, political hostilities, and war, could limit the Company’s ability to transact business in these markets.  The Company has historically benefited from the free flow of agricultural and food and feed ingredient products from the U.S. and other sources to markets around the world.  Increases in tariff and restrictive trade activities around the world (e.g., the U.S.-China trade relations dispute, Iran sanctions) could negatively impact the Company’s ability to enter certain markets or the price of products may become less competitive in those markets. The Company’s strategy involves expanding the volume and diversity of crops it merchandises and processes, expanding the global reach of its core model, expanding its value-added product portfolio, and expanding the sustainable agriculture programs and partnerships it participates in.  Government policies including, but not limited to, antitrust and competition law, trade restrictions, food safety regulations, sustainability requirements, and traceability, can impact the Company’s ability to execute this strategy successfully. Credit and Liquidity Risk - The Company’s business is capital-intensive in nature and the Company relies on cash generated from its operations and external financing to fund its growth and ongoing capital needs.  Limitations on access to external financing could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company requires significant capital, including continuing access to credit markets, to operate its current business and fund its growth strategy.  The Company’s working capital requirements, including margin requirements on open positions on futures exchanges, are directly affected by the price of agricultural commodities, which may fluctuate significantly and change quickly.  The Company also requires substantial capital to maintain and upgrade its extensive network of storage facilities, processing plants, refineries, mills, ports, transportation assets, and other facilities to keep pace with competitive developments, technological advances, regulations, and changing safety standards in the industry.  Moreover, the expansion of the Company’s business and pursuit of acquisitions or other business opportunities may require significant amounts of capital.  Access to credit markets and pricing of the Company’s capital is dependent upon maintaining sufficient credit ratings from credit rating agencies.  Sufficient credit ratings allow the Company to access cost competitive tier one commercial paper markets.  If the Company is unable to maintain sufficiently high credit ratings, access to these commercial paper and other debt markets and costs of borrowings could be adversely affected.  If the Company is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or maintain access to adequate external financing, including as a result of significant disruptions in the global credit markets, it could restrict the Company’s current operations and its growth opportunities.  The Company manages this risk with constant monitoring of credit/liquidity metrics, cash forecasting, and routine communications with credit rating agencies regarding risk management practices. LIBOR (London Interbank Offered rate) has been the subject of recent proposals for international reform and it is anticipated LIBOR will be discontinued or modified by June 2023.  The Company’s variable rate debt, credit facilities, certain derivative agreements, and commercial agreements may use LIBOR as a benchmark for establishing interest rates.  Although the Company does not expect that a transition from LIBOR will have a material adverse impact on its financing costs, the Company continues to monitor developments. 19 Business Environment and Competition Risks The availability and prices of the agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products the Company procures, transports, stores, processes, and merchandises can be affected by climate change, weather conditions, disease, government programs, competition, and various other factors beyond the Company’s control and could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The availability and prices of agricultural commodities are subject to wide fluctuations, including impacts from factors outside the Company’s control such as changes in weather conditions, climate change, rising sea levels, crop disease, plantings, government programs and policies, competition, and changes in global demand, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results.  The Company uses a global network of procurement, processing, and transportation assets, as well as robust communications between global commodity merchandiser teams, to continually assess price and basis opportunities.  Management-established limits (including a corporate wide value-at-risk metric), with robust internal reporting, help to manage risks in pursuit of driving performance.  Additionally, the Company depends globally on agricultural producers to ensure an adequate supply of the agricultural commodities. Reduced supply of agricultural commodities could adversely affect the Company’s profitability by increasing the cost of raw materials and/or limiting the Company’s ability to procure, transport, store, process, and merchandise agricultural commodities in an efficient manner.  High and volatile commodity prices can place more pressures on short-term working capital funding.  Conversely, if supplies are abundant and crop production globally outpaces demand for more than one or two crop cycles, price volatility is somewhat diminished.  This could result in reduced operating results due to the lack of supply chain dislocations and reduced market spread and basis opportunities. The Company has certain finished products, such as ethanol and biodiesel, which are closely related to, or may be substituted for, petroleum products, or in the case of ethanol, blended into gasoline to increase octane content.  Therefore, the selling prices of ethanol and biodiesel can be impacted by the selling prices of gasoline, diesel fuel, and other octane enhancers.  A significant decrease in the price of gasoline, diesel fuel, or other octane enhancers could result in a significant decrease in the selling price of the Company’s ethanol and biodiesel.  The Company uses derivative contracts as anticipatory hedges for both purchases of commodity inputs and sales of energy-based products in order to protect itself in the near term against these price trends and to protect and maximize processing margins. Advances in technology, such as seed and crop protection, farming techniques, storage and logistics, and speed of information flow, may reduce the significance of dislocations and arbitrage opportunities in the agricultural global markets, which may reduce the earnings potential of agricultural merchandisers and processors. The Company has significant competition in the markets in which it operates. The Company faces significant competition in each of its businesses and has numerous competitors, who can be different depending upon each of the business segments in which it participates.  The Company competes for the acquisition of inputs such as raw materials, transportation services, and other materials and supplies, as well as for workforce and talent.  Competition impacts the Company’s ability to generate and increase its gross profit as a result of the following factors:  Pricing of the Company’s products is partly dependent upon industry processing capacity, which is impacted by competitor actions to bring idled capacity on-line, build new production capacity or execute aggressive consolidation; many of the products bought and sold by the Company are global commodities or are derived from global commodities that are highly price competitive and, in many cases, subject to substitution; significant changes in exchange rates of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar, particularly the currencies of major crop growing countries, could also make goods and products of these countries more competitive than U.S. products; improved yields in different crop growing regions may reduce the reliance on origination territories in which the Company has a significant presence; and continued merger and acquisition activities resulting in further consolidations could result in greater cost competitiveness and global scale of certain players in the industry, especially when acquirers are state-owned and/or backed by public funds and have profit and return objectives that may differ from publicly traded enterprises.  To compete effectively, the Company focuses on safely improving efficiency in its production and distribution operations, developing and maintaining appropriate market presence, maintaining a high level of product safety and quality, supporting socially responsible and sustainable practices, promoting environmental responsibility, and working with customers to develop new products and tailored solutions. 20 In the case of the nutrition business, while maintaining efficient and cost-effective operations are important, the ability to drive innovation and develop quality nutritional and wellness solutions for human and animal needs are key factors to remain competitive in the nutrition market. Fluctuations in energy prices could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company’s operating costs and the selling prices of certain finished products are sensitive to changes in energy prices.  The Company’s processing plants are powered principally by electricity, natural gas, and coal.  The Company’s transportation operations are dependent upon diesel fuel and other petroleum-based products.  Significant increases in the cost of these items, including any consequences of regulation or taxation of greenhouse gases, could adversely affect the Company’s production costs and operating results.  The Company continues to use internal and external resources to identify opportunities and take action to reduce its energy intensity globally to meet its continued commitment to mitigate the effects of climate change. The Company is subject to economic downturns and regional economic volatilities, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company conducts its business and has substantial assets located in many countries and geographic areas. While 62 percent of the Company’s long-lived assets are located in the United States, the Company also has significant operations in both developed areas (such as Western Europe, Canada, and Brazil) and emerging market areas.  One of the Company’s strategies is to expand the global reach of its core model, which may include expanding or developing its business in emerging market areas.  Both developed and emerging market areas are subject to impacts of economic downturns, including decreased demand for the Company’s products, and reduced availability of credit, or declining credit quality of the Company’s suppliers, customers, and other counterparties.  In addition, emerging market areas could be subject to more volatile operating conditions including, but not limited to, logistics limitations or delays, labor-related challenges, epidemic outbreaks and economic recovery, limitations or regulations affecting trade flows, local currency concerns, and other economic and political instability.  Political fiscal instability could generate intrusive regulations in emerging markets, potentially creating unanticipated assessments of taxes, fees, increased risks of corruption, etc.  Economic downturns and volatile market conditions could adversely affect the Company’s operating results and ability to execute its long-term business strategies, although the nature of many of the Company’s products (i.e. food and feed ingredients) is less sensitive to demand reductions in any economic downcycles.  The Company mitigates this risk in many ways, including country risk and exposure analysis, government relations and tax compliance activities, and robust ethics compliance training requirements. The Company may fail to realize the benefits of or experience delays in the execution of its growth strategy, which encompasses organic and inorganic initiatives, including those outside the U.S. and in businesses where the Company does not currently have a large presence. As the Company executes its growth strategy, through both organic and inorganic growth, it may encounter risks which could result in increased costs, decreased revenues, and delayed synergies.  Growth in new geographies outside the U.S. can expose the Company to volatile economic, political, and regulatory risks that may negatively impact its operations and ability to achieve its growth strategy.  Expanding businesses where the Company has limited presence may expose the Company to risks related to the inability to identify an appropriate partner or target and favorable terms, inability to retain/hire strategic talent, or integration risks that may require significant management resources that would have otherwise been available for ongoing growth or operational initiatives.  Acquisitions may involve unanticipated delays, costs, and other problems.  Due diligence performed prior to an acquisition may not identify a material liability or issue that could impact the Company's reputation or adversely affect results of operations resulting in a reduction of the anticipated acquisition benefits.  Additionally, acquisitions may involve integration risks such as: internal control effectiveness, system integration risks, the risk of impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangibles, ability to retain acquired employees, and other unanticipated risks. 21 The Company is subject to industry-specific risks which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. The Company is subject to industry-specific risks which include, but are not limited to, product safety and quality; launch of new products by other industries that can replace the functionalities of the Company’s production; shifting consumer preferences; federal, state, and local regulations on manufacturing or labeling; socially acceptable and sustainable farming practices; environmental, health, and safety regulations; and customer product liability claims.  The liability which could result from certain of these risks may not always be covered by, or could exceed liability insurance related to product liability and food safety matters maintained by the Company.  The Company has a particularly strong capability and culture around occupational health and safety and food safety; however, risks to the Company’s reputation may exist due to potential negative publicity caused by product liability, food safety, occupational health and safety, workforce diversity, and environmental matters. Certain of the Company’s merchandised commodities and finished products are used as ingredients in livestock and poultry feed.  The Company is subject to risks associated with economic, product quality, feed safety or other factors which may adversely affect the livestock and poultry businesses, including the outbreak of disease in livestock and poultry, for example African swine fever, which could adversely affect demand for the Company’s products used as ingredients in feed.  In addition, as the Company increases its investment in flavors and ingredients businesses, it is exposed to increased risks related to rapidly changing consumer preferences and the impacts these changes could have on the success of certain of the Company's customers. The Company has limited control over and may not realize the expected benefits of its equity investments and joint ventures and may not be able to monetize the investments at an attractive value when the Company decides to exit the investments. The Company has $5.3 billion invested in or advanced to joint ventures and investments over which the Company has limited control as to governance and management activities.  Net sales to unconsolidated affiliates during the year ended December 31, 2021 were $6.6 billion.  Risks related to these investments may include:  the financial strength of the investment partner; loss of revenues and cash flows to the investment partner and related gross profit; the inability to implement beneficial management strategies, including risk management and compliance monitoring, with respect to the investment’s activities; and the risk that the Company may not be able to resolve disputes with the partners.  The Company may encounter unanticipated operating issues, financial results, or compliance and reputational risks related to these investments.  The Company mitigates this risk using controls and policies related to joint venture formation, governance (including board of directors’ representation), merger and acquisition integration management, and harmonization of joint venture policies with the Company’s policies and controls.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This MD&A should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The Company’s recent significant portfolio actions and announcements include: • the announcement in March 2021 of a new ADM policy to protect forests, biodiversity and communities, furthering the Company’s commitment to sustainable, ethical, and responsible production; • the announcement in April 2021 of the resumption of dry mill ethanol production; • the acquisition in April 2021 of Golden Farm Production & Commerce Company Limited; • the announcement in May 2021 of ADM’s participation as a signatory to the German Charter for Diversity in the Workplace which aims to advance the recognition and inclusion of diversity in companies; • the announcement in May 2021 of a plan to build a dedicated soybean crushing plant and refinery in North Dakota to meet fast-growing demand from food, feed, industrial and biofuel customers, including producers of renewable diesel, which is expected to be open in 2023; • the announcement in June 2021 of ADM Ventures, the corporate venture capital arm of ADM, joining the Genesis Consortium, a global alliance of venture capital firms and corporations dedicated to supporting startups that leverage biology to promote human and planetary health; • the acquisition in September 2021 of a 75% majority stake in P4, premier providers of private label pet treats and supplements; • the announcement in September 2021 of a memorandum of understanding with LG Chem, a leading global diversified chemical company, to explore US-based production of lactic acid to meet growing demand for a wide variety of plant-based products, including bioplastics, through the creation of two joint ventures; • the unveiling in September 2021 of a state-of-the-art, fully automated flavor production facility situated in Pinghu, Zhejiang Province, China; • the announcement in October 2021 of an agreement with Qingdao Vland Biotech Group Co., Ltd., a leading producer of enzymes and probiotics, to form a joint venture, subject to regulatory approval, to manufacture and sell human probiotics to serve growing Chinese demand; • the announcement in October 2021 of an equity investment in Acies Bio, a Slovenia-based biotechnology company specializing in research and development and manufacturing services for developing and scaling synthetic biology and precision fermentation technologies for food, agriculture, and industrial applications; • the announcement in October 2021 of a memorandum of understanding with Gevo, Inc., a pioneer in transforming renewable energy into low carbon, energy-dense liquid hydrocarbons, to support the production of up to 500 million gallons of sustainable aviation fuel and other low carbon-footprint hydrocarbon fuels; • the announcement in November 2021 of an agreement to form a 50-50 joint venture with Asia Sustainable Foods Platform, a wholly-owned company of Temasek, to provide technology development and precision fermentation for companies serving the growing consumer demand for a wide variety of bio-based products, including alternative protein, in Singapore and the wider Asia-Pacific region; • the announcement in November 2021 of an equity investment in Farmers Business Network, a global farmer-to-farmer network and AgTech company, and a letter of intent to expand the existing relationship through a wide range of potential future areas of cooperation; • the acquisition in November 2021 of Deerland, a leader in probiotic, prebiotic, and enzyme technology; • the acquisition in November 2021 of Sojaprotein, a leading European provider of non-GMO soy ingredients; • the sale in November 2021 of the Company’s ethanol production complex in Peoria, Illinois to BioUrja Group; • the formation in December 2021 of a joint venture with Marathon Petroleum Corp. for the production of soybean oil to supply rapidly growing demand for renewable diesel fuel; • the acquisition in December 2021 of Flavor Infusion International, S.A., a full-range provider of flavor and specialty ingredient solutions for customers across Latin America and the Caribbean; and • the acquisition in February 2022 of Comhan, a leading South African flavour distributor. Sustainability is a key driver of ADM’s expanding portfolio of environmentally responsible, plant-derived products.  Consumers today increasingly expect their food and drink to come from sustainable ingredients, produced by companies that share their values and ADM is continually finding new ways to meet those needs through its portfolio actions. 27 The next phase of the Company’s strategic transformation is focused on two strategic pillars: Productivity and Innovation. The Productivity pillar includes (1) advancing the roles of the Company’s Centers of Excellence in procurement, supply chain, and operations to deliver additional efficiencies across the enterprise; (2) continued roll out of the 1ADM business transformation program and implementation of improved standardized business processes; and (3) increased use of technology, analytics, and automation at production facilities, in offices, and with customers. Innovation activities include expansions and investments in (1) improving the customer experience, including leveraging producer relationships and enhancing the use of state-of-the-art digital technology to help customers grow; (2) sustainability-driven innovation, which encompasses the full range of products, solutions, capabilities, and commitments to serve customers’ needs; and (3) growth initiatives, including organic growth to support additional capacity and meet growing demand, and mergers and acquisitions opportunities. ADM will support both pillars with investments in technology, which include expanding digital capabilities and investing further in product research and development. All of these efforts will continue to be strengthened by the Company’s ongoing commitment to Readiness. Operating Performance Indicators The Company’s Ag Services and Oilseeds operations are principally agricultural commodity-based businesses where changes in selling prices move in relationship to changes in prices of the commodity-based agricultural raw materials.  As a result, changes in agricultural commodity prices have relatively equal impacts on both revenues and cost of products sold.  Therefore, changes in revenues of these businesses do not necessarily correspond to the changes in margins or gross profit.  Thus, gross margins per volume or metric ton are more meaningful than gross margins as percentage of revenues. The Company’s Carbohydrate Solutions operations and Nutrition businesses also utilize agricultural commodities (or products derived from agricultural commodities) as raw materials.  However, in these operations, agricultural commodity market price changes do not necessarily correlate to changes in cost of products sold.  Therefore, changes in revenues of these businesses may correspond to changes in margins or gross profit.  Thus, gross margin rates are more meaningful as a performance indicator in these businesses. The Company has consolidated subsidiaries in more than 70 countries.  For the majority of the Company’s subsidiaries located outside the United States, the local currency is the functional currency except certain significant subsidiaries in Switzerland where Euro is the functional currency, and Brazil and Argentina where U.S. dollar is the functional currency.  Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates for the applicable periods.  For the majority of the Company’s business activities in Brazil and Argentina, the functional currency is the U.S. dollar; however, certain transactions, including taxes, occur in local currency and require remeasurement to the functional currency.  Changes in revenues are expected to be correlated to changes in expenses reported by the Company caused by fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Brazilian real, as compared to the U.S. dollar. The Company measures its performance using key financial metrics including net earnings, gross margins, segment operating profit, return on invested capital, earnings before taxes, interest, and depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), economic value added, manufacturing expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses.  The Company’s financial results can vary significantly due to changes in factors such as fluctuations in energy prices, weather conditions, crop plantings, government programs and policies, trade policies, changes in global demand, general global economic conditions, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  Due to these unpredictable factors, the Company undertakes no responsibility for updating any forward-looking information contained within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 28 This section of the Form 10-K generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 are not included in this Form 10-K, and can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December  31, 2020. Market Factors Influencing Operations or Results in the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 The Company is subject to a variety of market factors which affect the Company's operating results.  In Ag Services and Oilseeds, North American origination volumes benefited from strong export demand throughout the year while South American origination volumes were impacted by a delayed harvest and low farmer selling activity. Crushing margins benefited from strong demand and tight soybean and canola/rapeseed stocks.  Demand for refined oils was strong, driven by the regional lifting of COVID-19 restrictions in the U.S. and demand for renewable green diesel.  In Carbohydrate Solutions, margins in starches and sweeteners were solid despite softer sweetener demand early in the year due to continued COVID-19 restrictions.  Starch demand continued to be robust.  Co-product prices were strong.  Ethanol demand returned closer to pre-pandemic levels.  For most of year, ethanol margins were volatile initially supported by improving domestic demand, then challenged in the summer months prior to harvest due to limited availability of corn.  Ethanol inventory levels were at a five-year low for the majority of the fourth quarter due to strong domestic demand and some supply chain bottlenecks resulting in elevated margins for the industry late in the year.  Nutrition benefited from overall strong demand in various product categories.  In Human Nutrition, demand for flavors, flavor systems, specialty proteins, bioactives, and fibers were strong.  In Animal Nutrition, weak demand and higher input costs as a result of COVID-19 in South America and Asia were partially offset by the growing demand in complete food for petfood.  Amino acids pricing and margins improved due to a tighter global supply environment. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net earnings attributable to controlling interests increased 53% or $0.9 billion, to $2.7 billion.   Segment operating profit increased 34% or $1.2 billion, to $4.6 billion, and included a net charge of $136 million consisting of asset impairment, restructuring, and settlement charges of $213 million, partially offset by gains on the sale of certain assets of $77 million.  Included in segment operating profit in the prior year was net income of $7 million consisting of gains on the sale of a portion of the Company’s shares in Wilmar and certain other assets, partially offset by asset impairment, restructuring, and settlement charges.  Adjusted segment operating profit increased $1.3 billion to $4.8 billion due primarily to higher results in most businesses except in Ag Services and Other Business.  Corporate results in the current year were a net charge of $1.3 billion and included a pension settlement charge of $83 million, loss on debt extinguishment of $36 million, a mark-to-market gain of $19 million on the conversion option of the exchangeable bonds issued in August 2020, acquisition-related expenses of $7 million, and a restructuring charge of $4 million.  Corporate results in the prior year were a net charge of $1.6 billion and included early debt retirement charges of $409 million, a mark-to-market loss of $17 million on the conversion option of the exchangeable bonds issued in August 2020, impairment and restructuring charges of $16 million, acquisition-related expenses of $4 million, gains on the sale of certain assets of $7 million, and a credit of $91 million from the elimination of the last-in, first-out (LIFO) reserve in connection with the accounting change effective January 1, 2020. Income taxes of $578 million increased $477 million.  The Company’s effective tax rate for 2021 was 17.4% compared to 5.4% for 2020 . The increase in rate for 2021 was due primarily to changes in the geographic mix of earnings and current year discrete tax items, including valuation allowance and return to provision adjustments.  The 2020 tax rate also included the impact of U.S. tax credits signed into law in December 2019, including a $73 million discrete tax benefit related to 45G railroad tax credits recognized in the quarter ended March 31, 2020.  The 45G railroad tax credits had an offsetting impact in cost of products sold. 29 Analysis of Statements of Earnings Processed volumes by product for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are as follows (in metric tons): The Company generally operates its production facilities, on an overall basis, at or near capacity, adjusting facilities individually, as needed, to react to the current margin environment and seasonal local supply and demand conditions.  The overall decrease in oilseeds processed volumes was due to cold weather and natural gas curtailments in North America, delays in soybean harvest in South America, and some production challenges in certain North American oilseeds processing plants.  The overall increase in corn processed volumes was primarily related to the idling of two dry mill facilities in the second quarter of 2020.  The Company restarted these idled facilities in April 2021. Revenues by segment for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are as follows: Revenues and cost of products sold in agricultural merchandising and processing businesses are significantly correlated to the underlying commodity prices and volumes.  In periods of significant changes in market prices, the underlying performance of the Company is better evaluated by looking at margins since both revenues and cost of products sold, particularly in Ag Services and Oilseeds, generally have a relatively equal impact from market price changes which generally result in an insignificant impact to gross profit. 30 Revenues increased $20.9 billion to $85.2 billion due to higher sales prices ($21.0 billion), partially offset by lower sales volumes ($0.1 billion).  Higher sales prices of oils, soybeans, corn, meal, animal feed, alcohol, biodiesel, wheat, and flavors and higher sales volumes of wheat and processed cotton, were partially offset by lower sales volumes of soybeans and oils.  Ag Services and Oilseeds revenues increased 35% to $67.0 billion due to higher sales prices ($17.3 billion).  Carbohydrate Solutions revenues increased 31% to $11.1 billion due to higher sales prices ($2.6 billion).  Nutrition revenues increased 16% to $6.7 billion due to higher sales prices ($1.0 billion), partially offset by lower sales volumes of ($0.1 billion). Cost of products sold increased $19.4 billion to $79.3 billion due principally to higher average commodity costs.  Included in cost of products sold in the prior year was a credit of $91 million from the effect of the elimination of the LIFO reserve in connection with the accounting change effective January 1, 2020.  Manufacturing expenses increased $0.5 billion to $6.1 billion due principally to higher maintenance and energy costs and salaries and benefits, partially offset by lower railroad maintenance expenses. Foreign currency translation impacts increased revenues by $0.9 billion and cost of products sold by $0.8 billion. Gross profit increased $1.5 billion or 34%, to $6.0 billion due to higher results in Ag Services and Oilseeds ($737 million), Carbohydrate Solutions ($577 million), Nutrition ($199 million), and Other ($47 million).  These factors are explained in the segment operating profit discussion on page 33.  In Corporate, the elimination of the LIFO reserve in connection with the accounting change effective January 1, 2020 had a positive impact on gross profit of $91 million in the prior year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased 11% to $3.0 billion due principally to higher salaries and benefits, performance-based compensation accruals, IT expenses, and a legal settlement. Asset impairment, exit, and restructuring costs increased $84 million to $164 million.  Charges in the current year consisted of $125 million of impairments related to certain long-lived assets, goodwill, and other intangible assets and $35 million of restructuring charges, presented as specified items within segment operating profit, and $4 million of restructuring charges in Corporate.  Charges in the prior year consisted primarily of $47 million of impairments related to certain intangible and other long-lived assets and $17 million of individually insignificant restructuring charges presented as specified items within segment operating profit, $7 million of individually insignificant impairments and $9 million of individually insignificant restructuring charges in Corporate. Interest expense decreased $74 million to $265 million due to lower interest rates and the favorable liability management actions taken in the prior year.  Interest expense in the current year also included a $19 million mark-to-market gain adjustment related to the conversion option of the Wilmar exchangeable bonds issued in August 2020 compared to a $17 million mark-to-market loss adjustment in the prior period. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates increased $16 million to $595 million due to higher earnings from the Company’s investment in Stratas Foods LLC, partially offset by lower earnings from the Company’s investments in SoyVen, Hungrana Ltd., and Almidones Mexicanos S.A. Loss on debt extinguishment in the current year of $36 million was related to the early redemption of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.750% notes due in March 2025.  Loss on debt extinguishment of $409 million in the prior year related to multiple early debt redemptions including the $0.7 billion debt tender in September 2020. Investment income decreased $15 million to $96 million due to lower interest rates on segregated funds in the Company’s futures commission and brokerage business and lower interest earned on financing receivables, partially offset by a $49 million investment revaluation gain in the current year compared to a $23 million investment revaluation gain in the prior year. Other income - net of $94 million decreased $161 million.  Current year income included gains on the sale of certain ethanol and other assets and disposals of individually insignificant assets in the ordinary course of business, foreign exchange gains, the non-service components of net pension benefit income, and other income, partially offset by a non-cash pension settlement charge related to the purchase of group annuity contracts that irrevocably transferred the future benefit obligations and annuity administration for certain salaried and hourly retirees and terminated vested participants under the Company’s ADM Retirement Plant and ADM Pension Plan for Hourly-Wage Employees.  Prior year income included gains related to the sale of a portion of the Company’s shares in Wilmar and certain other assets, the non-service components of net pension benefit income, foreign exchange gains, and other income. 31 Segment operating profit, adjusted segment operating profit (a non-GAAP measure), and earnings before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 are as follows: (1) Adjusted segment operating profit is segment operating profit excluding the listed specified items. 32 Ag Services and Oilseeds operating profit increased 32%.  Ag Services results were lower than the prior year.  In North America, strong Chinese demand and favorable positions in a dynamic pricing environment delivered significantly higher results.  South American origination results were significantly lower due to decreased farmer selling activity versus the prior year and the effects from a slightly delayed harvest and higher freight costs.  Global Trade results were impacted by lower margins in structured trade finance and negative timing effects related to ocean freight positions which are expected to reverse in the coming quarters.  Crushing results were significantly higher.  In North America and Europe, tight supplies and strong demand that drove higher crush margins were partially offset by results in South America which were impacted by slower farmer selling and higher cost of beans.  Refined Products and Other results were higher year-over-year on stronger margins in North America and Europe, Middle East, Africa, and India (EMEAI), partially offset by impacts related to the reduction in Brazilian biodiesel mandates.  Equity earnings from Wilmar were higher versus the prior year. Carbohydrate Solutions operating profit increased 79%.  Starches and Sweeteners results, including ethanol production from the wet mills, were significantly higher than the prior year.  The business capitalized on rising prices in the ethanol complex and favorable co-product values in an industry environment of improving margins, falling inventories, and higher input costs.  Corn oil results significantly improved from the prior year, which had been impacted by significant mark-to-market effects.  Current year results benefited from strong risk management gains that enhanced margins and trading opportunities.  Demand for flour by the foodservice sector remained below the prior year.  Vantage Corn Processors results were substantially higher, driven by improved margins on the distribution of fuel ethanol and strong performance in USP-grade alcohol and the resumption of production at the two dry mills. Nutrition operating profit increased 20%.  Human Nutrition results were higher than the prior year.  Flavors results were up, driven by strong sales across various market segments.  In North America and EMEAI, the flavors business delivered strong volumes and improved product mix, particularly in the beverage segment.  Specialty Ingredients delivered sales growth in specialty proteins and improved pricing and product mix, though results were negatively impacted by the effects of higher production costs, normalization of prices in the wholesale ingredients business, and COVID-related shifts in demand across the portfolio.  Health and Wellness results were strong, with robust demand driving strong results in probiotics and fibers.  Animal Nutrition results were higher on favorable results in amino acids, driven by improved margins and product mix, partially offset by lower demand and higher input costs as a result of pandemic effects in South America and Asia. Other Business operating profit decreased 52% primarily due to lower underwriting results from the captive insurance operations, most of which were offset by corresponding recoveries in other business segments. Corporate results are as follows: 33 Corporate results were a net charge of $1.3 billion in the current year compared to $1.6 billion in the prior year.  The elimination of the LIFO reserve in connection with the accounting change effective January 1, 2020 resulted in a credit of $91 million in the prior year.  Interest expense-net decreased $36 million due principally to lower interest rates and the favorable liability management actions taken in the prior year.  Unallocated corporate costs increased $100 million due primarily to higher variable performance-related compensation expense accruals, the continued cost centralization in procurement, supply chain, and operations, and additional investments in IT and related projects.  Loss on debt extinguishment in the current year  related to the early redemption of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.750% notes due in March 2025.  Loss on debt extinguishment in the prior year related to multiple early debt redemptions.  Gain (loss) on debt conversion option was related to the mark-to-market adjustment of the conversion option of the exchangeable bonds issued in August 2020.  Impairment, restructuring, and settlement charges in the current year included a non-cash pension settlement charge of $83 million related to the purchase of group annuity contracts that irrevocably transferred the future benefit obligations and annuity administration for certain salaried and hourly retirees and terminated vested participants under the Company’s ADM Retirement Plan and ADM Pension Plan for Hourly-Wage Employees to independent third parties, and individually insignificant restructuring charges.  Impairment, restructuring, and settlement charges in the prior year were related to impairment of certain assets and individually insignificant restructuring charges.  Other charges in the current year included railroad maintenance expenses of $67 million partially offset by the non-service components of net pension benefit income of $16 million and an investment revaluation gain of $49 million.  Other charges in the prior year included railroad maintenance expenses of $138 million, partially offset by foreign exchange gains, an investment revaluation gain of $23 million, and the non-service components of net pension benefit income of $33 million. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The Company uses adjusted earnings per share (EPS), adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted segment operating profit, non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the SEC, to evaluate the Company’s financial performance.  These performance measures are not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should be considered in addition to, and not in lieu of, GAAP financial measures. Adjusted EPS is defined as diluted EPS adjusted for the effects on reported diluted EPS of specified items.  Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before taxes, interest, and depreciation and amortization, adjusted for specified items.  The Company calculates adjusted EBITDA by removing the impact of specified items and adding back the amounts of interest expense and depreciation and amortization to earnings before income taxes.  Adjusted segment operating profit is segment operating profit adjusted, where applicable, for specified items. Management believes that adjusted EPS, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted segment operating profit are useful measures of the Company’s performance because they provide investors additional information about the Company’s operations allowing better evaluation of underlying business performance and better period-to-period comparability.  Adjusted EPS, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted segment operating profit are not intended to replace or be an alternative to diluted EPS, earnings before income taxes, and segment operating profit, respectively, the most directly comparable amounts reported under GAAP. 34 The table below provides a reconciliation of diluted EPS to adjusted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. (1) Tax effected using the Company’s U.S. tax rate.  LIFO accounting was discontinued effective January 1, 2020. (2) Tax effected using the applicable tax rates. The tables below provide a reconciliation of earnings before income taxes to adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA by segment for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. 35 Liquidity and Capital Resources A Company objective is to have sufficient liquidity, balance sheet strength, and financial flexibility to fund the operating and capital requirements of a capital intensive agricultural commodity-based business.  The Company depends on access to credit markets, which can be impacted by its credit rating and factors outside of ADM’s control, to fund its working capital needs and capital expenditures.  The primary source of funds to finance ADM’s operations, capital expenditures, and advancement of its growth strategy is cash generated by operations and lines of credit, including a commercial paper borrowing facility and accounts receivable securitization programs.  In addition, the Company believes it has access to funds from public and private equity and debt capital markets in both U.S. and international markets. Cash provided by operating activities was $6.6 billion in 2021 compared to a use of $2.4 billion in 2020.  Working capital changes as described below increased cash by $2.7 billion in the current year compared to a decrease of $5.5 billion in the prior year which included the impact of deferred consideration.  During 2020, the Company restructured its accounts receivable securitization programs from a deferred purchase price to a pledge structure.  As a result, operating cash flows in the current year no longer include the impact of deferred consideration in securitized receivables which decreased operating cash flows in previous years. Trade receivables increased $0.6 billion primarily due to higher revenues.  Inventories increased $2.8 billion primarily due to higher inventory prices and, to a lesser extent, higher volumes.  Other current assets decreased $1.3 billion primarily due to decreases in contracts and futures gains.  Trade payables increased $1.9 billion due principally to increased grain purchases.  Payables to brokerage customers increased $2.5 billion due to increased customer trading activity in the Company’s futures commission and brokerage business. Deferred consideration in securitized receivables of $4.6 billion in 2020 was offset by the same amount of net consideration received for beneficial interest obtained for selling trade receivables. Cash used in investing activities was $2.7 billion this year compared to cash provided of $4.5 billion last year.  Capital expenditures in the current year were $1.2 billion compared to $0.8 billion in the prior year.  Net assets of businesses acquired were $1.6 billion this year compared to $15 million last year primarily due to the acquisitions of P4, Sojaprotein, and Deerland in 2021.  Proceeds from sales of businesses and assets of $0.2 billion in the current year related to the sale of the ethanol production complex in Peoria, Illinois and certain other assets compared to $0.7 billion in the prior year which related to the sale of a portion of the Company shares in Wilmar and certain other assets.  Net consideration received for beneficial interest obtained for selling trade receivables was $4.6 billion in 2020. Cash used in financing activities was $1.1 billion this year compared to $0.4 billion last year.  Long-term debt borrowings in the current year of $1.3 billion consisted of the $750 million aggregate principal amount of 2.700% Notes due 2051 issued on September 10, 2021 and the €0.5 billion aggregate principal amount of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2022 issued in a private placement on March 25, 2021.  Long-term debt borrowings in the prior year of $1.8 billion consisted of $0.5 billion and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amounts of 2.75% Notes due in 2025 and 3.25% Notes due in 2030, respectively, issued on March 27, 2020 and the $0.3 billion aggregate principal amount of zero coupon exchangeable bonds due in 2023 issued on August 26, 2020.  Proceeds from the borrowings in 2021 and 2020 were used to redeem debt and for general corporate purposes.  Commercial paper net payments were $1.1 billion in the current year compared to net borrowings of $0.8 billion in the prior year.  Long-term debt payments in the current year of $0.5 billion consisted of the early redemption of the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.750% notes due 2025 in September 2021.  Long-term debt payments in the prior year of $2.1 billion related primarily to the early redemption of the $0.5 billion and $0.4 billion aggregate principal amounts of 4.479% debentures due in 2021 and 3.375% debentures due in 2022, respectively, the repurchase of $0.7 billion aggregate principal amount of certain outstanding notes and debentures, and the redemption of $0.2 billion aggregate principal amount of private placement notes due in 2021 and 2024.  Share repurchases in the current year were insignificant compared to $0.1 billion in the prior year.  Dividends paid in the current year of $0.8 billion were comparable to the prior year. 36 At December 31, 2021, ADM had $0.9 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities and a current ratio, defined as current assets divided by current liabilities, of 1.5 to 1.  Included in working capital is $9.8 billion of readily marketable commodity inventories.  At December 31, 2021, the Company’s capital resources included shareholders’ equity of $22.5 billion and lines of credit, including the accounts receivable securitization programs described below, totaling $11.2 billion, of which $8.1 billion was unused.  ADM’s ratio of long-term debt to total capital (the sum of long-term debt and shareholders’ equity) was 26% and 28% at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  The Company uses this ratio as a measure of ADM’s long-term indebtedness and an indicator of financial flexibility.  The Company’s ratio of net debt (the sum of short-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt, and long-term debt less the sum of cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities) to capital (the sum of net debt and shareholders’ equity) was 28% and 32% at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Of the Company’s total lines of credit, $5.0 billion supported the commercial paper borrowing programs, against which there was $0.8 billion of commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2021. During the second half of 2020, the global credit market stabilized with corporate credit spreads below pre-pandemic levels.  Continued actions by central banks provided additional support in both the short-term and long-term funding markets further stabilizing corporate credit markets.  Low benchmark yields and favorable credit spreads coupled with continued strong cash flow generation during the second half of 2020 presented opportunities for ADM to re-balance the company’s liability portfolio to pre-pandemic levels.  Starting in June 2020, ADM began a series of liability management transactions including multiple early debt redemptions to capitalize on all-time low interest rates. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $0.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $0.5 billion of which is cash held by foreign subsidiaries whose undistributed earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested.  Based on the Company’s historical ability to generate sufficient cash flows from its U.S. operations and unused and available U.S. credit capacity of $5.2 billion, the Company has asserted that these funds are indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. The Company has accounts receivable securitization programs (the “Programs”) with certain commercial paper conduit purchasers and committed purchasers.  The Programs provide the Company with up to $2.3 billion in funding against accounts receivable transferred into the Programs and expand the Company’s access to liquidity through efficient use of its balance sheet assets (see Note 19 in Item 8 for more information and disclosures on the Programs).  As of December 31, 2021, the Company utilized $2.2 billion of its facility under the Programs. On November 5, 2014, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to 100,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock during the period commencing January 1, 2015 and ending December 31, 2019.  On August 7, 2019, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the extension of the stock repurchase program through December 31, 2024 and the repurchase of up to an additional 100,000,000 shares under the extended program.  The Company has acquired approximately 95.5 million shares under this program as of December 31, 2021. In 2022, the Company expects capital expenditures of $1.3 billion and additional cash outlays of approximately $0.9 billion in dividends and up to $150 million in share repurchases, subject to other strategic uses of capital and the evolution of operating cash flows and the working capital position throughout the year. The Company’s purchase obligations as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $18.6 billion and $19.7 billion, respectively.  The decrease is primarily related to obligations to purchase lower quantities of agricultural commodity inventories.  As of December 31, 2021, the Company expects to make payments related to purchase obligations of $15.8 billion within the next twelve months.  The Company's other material cash requirements within the next 12 months include commercial paper outstanding of $0.8 billion, current maturities of long-term debt of $570 million, interest payments of $305 million, operating lease payments of $310 million, transition tax liability of $20 million, and pension and other postretirement plan contributions of $100 million.  The Company expects to make payments related to purchase obligations and other material cash requirements beyond the next twelve months of $18.2 billion. The Company’s credit facilities and certain debentures require the Company to comply with specified financial and non-financial covenants including maintenance of minimum tangible net worth as well as limitations related to incurring liens, secured debt, and certain other financing arrangements.  The Company was in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2021. The three major credit rating agencies have maintained the Company’s credit ratings at solid investment grade levels with stable outlooks. 37 Critical Accounting Policies The process of preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the carrying values of the Company’s assets and liabilities as well as the recognition of revenues and expenses.  These estimates and judgments are based on the Company’s historical experience and management’s knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances.  Certain of the Company’s accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are important to the depiction of the Company’s financial statements and require significant or complex judgment by management.  Management has discussed with the Company’s Audit Committee the development, selection, disclosure, and application of these critical accounting policies.  Following are the accounting policies management considers critical to the Company’s financial statements. Fair Value Measurements - Inventories and Commodity Derivatives Certain of the Company’s inventory and commodity derivative assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2021 are valued at estimated fair values, including $9.8 billion of merchandisable agricultural commodity inventories, $1.4 billion of commodity derivative assets, $1.8 billion of commodity derivative liabilities, and $1.0 billion of inventory-related payables.  Commodity derivative assets and liabilities include forward purchase and sales contracts for agricultural commodities.  Merchandisable agricultural commodities are freely traded, have quoted market prices, and may be sold without significant additional processing.  Management estimates fair value for its commodity-related assets and liabilities based on exchange-quoted prices, adjusted for differences in local markets.  The Company’s inventory and derivative commodity fair value measurements are mainly based on observable market quotations without significant adjustments and are therefore reported as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy.  Level 3 fair value measurements of approximately $3.5 billion of assets and $0.9 billion of liabilities represent fair value estimates where unobservable price components represent 10% or more of the total fair value price.  For more information concerning amounts reported as Level 3, see Note 4 in Item 8.  Changes in the market values of these inventories and commodity contracts are recognized in the statement of earnings as a component of cost of products sold.  If management used different methods or factors to estimate market value, amounts reported as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially.  Additionally, if market conditions change subsequent to year-end, amounts reported in future periods as inventories and cost of products sold could differ materially. Derivatives – Designated Hedging Activities The Company, from time to time, uses derivative contracts designated as cash flow hedges to hedge the purchase or sales price of anticipated volumes of commodities to be purchased and processed in a future month.  Assuming normal market conditions, the change in the market value of such derivative contracts has historically been, and is expected to continue to be, highly effective at offsetting changes in price movements of the hedged item.  Gains and losses arising from open and closed hedging transactions are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes, and recognized as a component of cost of products sold and revenues in the statement of earnings when the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  If it is determined that the derivative instruments used are no longer effective at offsetting changes in the price of the hedged item, then the changes in the market value of these exchange-traded futures and exchange-traded and over-the-counter option contracts would be recorded immediately in the statement of earnings as a component of revenues and/or cost of products sold.  See Note 5 in Item 8 for additional information. Investments in Affiliates The Company applies the equity method of accounting for investments over which the Company has the ability to exercise significant influence.  These investments are carried at cost plus equity in undistributed earnings and are adjusted, where appropriate, for amortizable basis differences between the investment balance and the underlying net assets of the investee.  Generally, the minimum ownership threshold for asserting significant influence is 20% ownership of the investee.  However, the Company considers all relevant factors in determining its ability to assert significant influence including, but not limited to, ownership percentage, board membership, customer and vendor relationships, and other arrangements. 38 Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with the applicable accounting standards.  These standards prescribe a minimum threshold a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the consolidated financial statements.  The Company recognizes in its consolidated financial statements tax positions determined more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, based on the technical merits of the position.  The Company faces challenges from U.S. and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due.  These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions.  In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the Company records reserves for estimates of potential additional tax owed by the Company.  For example, the Company has received tax assessments from tax authorities in Argentina and the Netherlands, challenging income tax positions taken by subsidiaries of the Company.  The Company evaluated its tax positions for these matters and concluded, based in part upon advice from legal counsel, that it was appropriate to recognize the tax benefits of these positions (see Note 13 in Item 8 for additional information). Deferred tax assets represent items to be used as tax deductions or credits in future tax returns where the related tax benefit has already been recognized in the Company’s income statement.  The realization of the Company’s deferred tax assets is dependent upon future taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, the timing and amount of which are uncertain.  The Company evaluates all available positive and negative evidence including estimated future reversals of existing temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial results.  Valuation allowances related to these deferred tax assets have been established to the extent the realization of the tax benefit is not likely.  During 2021, the Company decreased valuation allowances by $52 million primarily related to expired state attributes.  To the extent the Company were to favorably resolve matters for which valuation allowances have been established or is unable to realize amounts in excess of the aforementioned valuation allowances, the Company’s effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be impacted. Undistributed earnings of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures amounting to approximately $12.7 billion at December 31, 2021, are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The Company has a responsibility to ensure that all ADM businesses within the Company follow responsible tax practices.  ADM manages its tax affairs based upon the following key principles: – a commitment to paying tax in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates; – a commitment to the effective, sustainable, and active management of the Company's tax affairs; and – developing and sustaining open and honest relationships with the governments and jurisdictions in which the Company operates regarding the formulation of tax laws. Property, Plant, and Equipment and Asset Abandonments and Write-Downs The Company is principally engaged in the business of procuring, transporting, storing, processing, and merchandising agricultural commodities and products.  This business is global in nature and is highly capital-intensive.  Both the availability of the Company’s raw materials and the demand for the Company’s finished products are driven by factors such as weather, plantings, government programs and policies, changes in global demand, changes in standards of living, and global production of similar and competitive crops.  These aforementioned factors may cause a shift in the supply/demand dynamics for the Company’s raw materials and finished products.  Any such shift will cause management to evaluate the efficiency and cash flows of the Company’s assets in terms of geographic location, size, and age of its facilities.  The Company, from time to time, will also invest in equipment, technology, and companies related to new, value-added products produced from agricultural commodities and products.  These new products are not always successful from either a commercial production or marketing perspective.  Management evaluates the Company’s property, plant, and equipment for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist.  In addition, assets are written down to fair value after consideration of the ability to utilize the assets for their intended purpose or to employ the assets in alternative uses or sell the assets to recover the carrying value.  If management used different estimates and assumptions in its evaluation of these assets, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods.  During the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, asset abandonment and impairment charges for property, plant, and equipment were $73 million, $28 million, and $131 million, respectively. 39 Business Combinations The Company’s acquisitions are accounted for in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 805, Business Combinations, as amended . The consideration transferred is allocated to various assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date with the residual allocated to goodwill.  Fair values allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations require management to make significant judgments, estimates, and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets.  Management makes estimates of fair values based upon assumptions it believes to be reasonable.  These estimates are based upon historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain.  The estimated fair values related to intangible assets primarily consist of customer relationships, trademarks, and developed technology which are determined primarily using discounted cash flow models.  Estimates in the discounted cash flow models include, but are not limited to, certain assumptions that form the basis of the forecasted results (e.g. revenue growth rates, customer attrition rates, and royalty rates).  These significant assumptions are forward looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions.  During the measurement period, which may take up to one year from the acquisition date, adjustments due to changes in the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed may be recorded as adjustments to the consideration transferred and related allocations.  Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or the final determination of the values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any such adjustments are charged to the consolidated statements of earnings.  The Company accounts for any redeemable noncontrolling interest in temporary equity - redeemable noncontrolling interest at redemption value with periodic changes recorded in retained earnings. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortized but are subject to annual impairment tests.  The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually on October 1 or whenever there are indicators that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable.  The Company has seven reporting units identified at one level below the operating segment using the criteria in ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350).  The Company adopted the provisions of Topic 350, which permits, but does not require, a company to qualitatively assess indicators of a reporting unit’s fair value.  If after completing the qualitative assessment, a company believes it is likely that a reporting unit is impaired, a discounted cash flow analysis is prepared to estimate fair value.  Critical estimates in the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows, revenue growth, and discount rates.  During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company evaluated goodwill for impairment using a qualitative assessment in six reporting units and using a quantitative assessment in one reporting unit.  The estimated fair value of the reporting unit evaluated for impairment using a quantitative assessment was substantially in excess of its carrying value.  Definite-lived intangible assets, including capitalized expenses related to the Company’s 1ADM program such as third-party configuration costs and internal labor, are amortized over their estimated useful lives of 1 to 50 years and are reviewed for impairment whenever there are indicators that the carrying values may not be fully recoverable.  The Company recorded impairment charges totaling $52 million related to goodwill and other intangibles, $26 million related to customer lists, and $11 million related goodwill and other intangibles during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively (see Note 18 in Item 8 for more information).  If management used different estimates and assumptions in its impairment tests, then the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods. Employee Benefit Plans The Company provides substantially all U.S. employees and employees at certain international subsidiaries with retirement benefits including defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans.  The Company provides certain eligible U.S. employees who retire under qualifying conditions with subsidized postretirement health care coverage or Health Care Reimbursement Accounts. 40 In order to measure the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans, management makes several estimates and assumptions, including interest rates used to discount certain liabilities, rates of return on assets set aside to fund these plans, rates of compensation increases, employee turnover rates, anticipated mortality rates, and anticipated future health care costs.  These estimates and assumptions are based on the Company’s historical experience combined with management’s knowledge and understanding of current facts and circumstances.  Management also uses third-party actuaries to assist in measuring the expense and funded status of these employee benefit plans.  If management used different estimates and assumptions regarding these plans, the funded status of the plans could vary significantly, and the Company could recognize different amounts of expense over future periods.  A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate assumption would result in a $90 million decrease to the Company's pension benefit obligation improving the funded status by the same amount while a 25 basis point decrease in the expected return on plan assets assumption would increase the Company’s pension expense by $4 million. The Company uses the corridor approach when amortizing actuarial losses.  Under the corridor approach, net unrecognized actuarial losses in excess of 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market related value of plan assets are amortized over future periods.  For plans with little to no active participants, the amortization period is the remaining average life expectancy of the participants.  For plans with active participants, the amortization period is the remaining average service period of the active participants.  The amortization periods range from 2 to 28 years for the Company’s defined benefit pension plans and from 6 to 21 years for the Company’s postretirement benefit plans.