********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate. The risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See "Item 1. Business—Competition" of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the competitive environment in the markets in which we operate. Many risks affect more than one category, and the risks are not in order of significance or probability of occurrence because they have been grouped by categories. The risks described below are not the only risks we face and the occurrence of any of the following risks or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or reputation. LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Failure to comply with, compliance with or changes in, laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences Our business is subject to a wide range of complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations described in the “Industry Regulation” section in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations or client solutions and services could cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, and lawsuits, including class actions, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, changes in laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business. For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact average client balances and, thereby, adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities. Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, regulations or rulings or the interpretation thereof could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income. Changes in laws, or interpretations thereof, that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business. In addition, changes in the manner in which health and welfare plans sponsored by PEOs or the TotalSource Health and Welfare Plan, in particular, are regulated could adversely impact the demand for our PEO offering. Because our PEO is a co-employer with our PEO clients and a Certified PEO by the Internal Revenue Service, we may be subject to certain obligations, responsibilities and liabilities of an employer with respect to Worksite Employees (WSE), including with respect to their wages and the payment thereof, the payment of certain taxes with respect to WSE wages and employee benefits provided to the WSEs. Even though PEO clients are contractually responsible for the timely remittance of such costs, it is possible that our clients will not remit such payments despite their contractual obligations. The risk of failing to receive such payments from PEO clients could be magnified during significant financial or other disruptions or catastrophic events, such as the failure of a bank, like that of Signature Bank or Silicon Valley Bank, with whom a significant number of PEO clients may bank at the time, or more widespread stress or failure within the U.S. banking system. Any such event could prevent or materially delay the recovery of any payments not timely remitted and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. Our Wisely offerings and potentially other future offerings in the payments and/or consumer space may subject us to additional laws and regulations, some of which may not be uniform and may require us to modify or restrict our offerings and decrease our potential revenue and earnings. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and similar laws could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences Regulators worldwide continue to exercise a high level of scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Such scrutiny has resulted in aggressive investigations and enforcement of such laws and burdensome regulations, any of which could materially adversely impact our business. We operate our business around the world, including in numerous developing economies where companies and government officials are more likely to engage in business practices that are 17 prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and leaders of political parties and, in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, among others. In addition, some of our businesses and entities in the U.S. and a number of other countries in which we operate are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including, for example, The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “BSA”). Among other things, the BSA requires certain financial institutions, including banks and money services businesses (such as national trust banks and providers of prepaid access like us), to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. We have registered our payroll card business as a provider of prepaid access, and registered our ADP Trust Bank with the Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN). We have implemented policies and procedures to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and we regularly review, upgrade and enhance our policies and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not take actions in violation of our policies for which we may be ultimately responsible, or that our policies and procedures will be adequate or will be determined to be adequate by regulators. Any violations of applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions or anti-money laundering laws or regulations could limit certain of our business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Further, bank regulators continue to impose additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their BSA obligations, and banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses and third-party senders to be higher risk customers for money laundering. As a result, our banking partners that assist in processing our money movement transactions may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional material requirements on us. These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks’ internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks that may do business with us, may require us to materially change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Failure to comply with privacy, data protection, artificial intelligence and cyber security laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences The collection, storage, hosting, transfer, processing, disclosure, use, security and retention and destruction of personal information required to provide our services is subject to federal, state and foreign privacy, data protection and cyber security laws. These laws, which are not uniform, generally do one or more of the following: regulate the collection, storage, hosting, transfer (including in some cases, the transfer outside the country of collection), processing, disclosure, use, security and retention and destruction of personal information; require notice to individuals of privacy practices; give individuals certain access and correction rights with respect to their personal information; and regulate the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing. Under certain circumstances, some of these laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, clients, data protection authorities and/or other regulators in the event of a data breach. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries. The European Union (the “EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”), and state consumer privacy laws like the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (the “CPRA”), are among the most comprehensive of these laws, and more and more jurisdictions are adopting similarly comprehensive laws that impose new data privacy protection requirements and restrictions. As part of our overall data protection compliance program in connection with the GDPR, we implemented Binding Corporate Rules (“BCRs”) as both a data processor and data controller, which permits us to process and transfer personal data across borders in compliance with EU data protection laws. We believe that providing insights and content from data, including via artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML), will become increasingly important to the value that our solutions and services deliver to our clients. We are increasingly leveraging AI and ML in our solutions and service delivery and are exploring how best to integrate generative AI technologies and develop and deploy capabilities that are beneficial to our clients and their employees. However, legislation that would govern the development and/or use of AI is under consideration in the U.S. at the state and local level, as well as abroad. In addition , self-regulatory frameworks like the National 18 Institute of Standards and Technology AI Risk Management Framework are being promulgated and adherence to these may become an industry standard or a client expectation. As a result, the ability to provide data-driven insights and otherwise leverage AI and ML may be constrained by current or future laws, regulatory or self-regulatory requirements or ethical considerations, including our own published, guiding ethical principles regarding AI and ML, that could restrict or impose burdensome and costly requirements on our ability to leverage data and/or these technologies in innovative ways. Complying with privacy, data protection, AI and cyber security laws and requirements, including the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR, our BCRs and the CPRA, may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices. Further, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in significant regulatory penalties and legal liability and damage our reputation. In addition, data security events, concerns about privacy abuses by other companies and increased awareness of the potential (positive and negative) of AI are changing consumer and social expectations for enhanced protections (including with respect to bias and potential discrimination). As a result, noncompliance, the failure to meet such expectations or the perception of noncompliance or such failure, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, it could materially adversely affect our business and our brand Our ability to compete and our success depend, in part, upon our intellectual property. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, clients, vendors, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. We may need to devote significant resources, including cybersecurity resources, to monitoring our intellectual property rights. In addition, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be inadequate or ineffective, or may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. Our intellectual property could be wrongfully acquired as a result of a cyber-attack or other wrongful conduct by third parties or our personnel. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, which may be successful. In addition, use of AI tools may result in the release of confidential or proprietary information which could limit our ability to protect, or prevent us from protecting, our intellectual property rights. We may be sued by third parties for infringement of their proprietary rights, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations There is considerable intellectual property development activity in our industry. Third parties, including our competitors, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our products or services and may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Additionally, as we expand our use of AI, there is uncertainty regarding intellectual property ownership and license rights of AI algorithms and content generated by AI and we may become subject to similar claims of infringement. We may be found to be infringing upon third party intellectual property rights, even if we are unaware of their intellectual property rights. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us or if we decide to settle, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, obtain licenses, modify applications, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our clients, vendors or partners in connection with any such claim or litigation. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming. SECURITY AND TECHNOLOGY RISKS Our businesses collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure and retain and dispose of personal and business information, and collect, hold and transmit client funds, and a security or privacy breach may damage or disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, increase our costs, cause losses and materially adversely affect our results of operations In connection with our business, we collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure and retain and dispose of large amounts of personal and business information about our clients, employees of our clients, our vendors and our employees, contractors and temporary staff, including payroll information, health care information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers and their foreign equivalents, bank account numbers, tax information and other sensitive personal and business information. We also collect significant amounts of funds from the accounts of our clients and transmit them to their employees, taxing authorities and other third parties. 19 We are focused on ensuring that we safeguard and protect personal and business information and client funds, and we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes. Nonetheless, the global environment continues to grow increasingly hostile as attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication, and we are regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses. Certain of these malicious parties may be state-sponsored and/or supported by significant financial and technological resources. Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because malevolent parties (including our personnel) may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses collect, host, store, transfer, process, disclose, use, secure and retain and dispose of, and the client funds that we collect and transmit. We have programs and processes in place to prevent, detect and respond to data or cybersecurity incidents. However, as a result of the complexity of our operating environment, the period over which hardware and software has been acquired or other reasons, our programs and processes may not be sufficient or adequate or may fail to prevent, detect or respond to a cybersecurity incident or identify and/or remediate a security vulnerability in our operating environment. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated (including due to the use of AI). We may fail to anticipate or detect these techniques and/or incidents for long periods of time and, even when we do so, we may be unable or fail to implement adequate or timely preventive or responsive measures. Our ability to address data or cybersecurity incidents may also depend on the timing and nature of assistance that may be provided from relevant governmental or law enforcement agencies. Hardware, software, applications or services that we develop or procure from third parties, or are required by third parties such as foreign governments to install on our systems, may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could (or, in respect of third-party software, may be designed to) compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems. Unauthorized parties also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other methods of deceiving these third parties or our personnel, including phishing and other social engineering techniques whereby attackers use end-user behaviors to distribute computer viruses and malware into our systems or otherwise compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems. As these threats continue to evolve and increase (including due to the use of AI), we continue to invest significant resources, and may be required to invest significant additional resources, to modify and enhance our information security and controls and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. In addition, while our operating environments are designed to safeguard and protect confidential personal and business information, we may not have the ability to monitor the implementation or effectiveness of any safeguards by our clients, vendors or partners and, in any event, third parties may be able to circumvent those security measures. Information obtained by malevolent parties (including our personnel) resulting from successful attacks against our clients, vendors, partners or other third parties may, in turn, be used to attack our information technology systems. A cyberattack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, ransomware attack, theft of non-public or other sensitive information, or similar act by a malevolent party (including our personnel), or inadvertent acts or inactions by our vendors, partners or personnel, could result in the loss, disclosure or misuse of confidential personal or business information or the theft of client or ADP funds, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business or results of operations or that of our clients, result in liability, litigation, regulatory investigations and sanctions or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients, or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider. As the global environment continues to grow increasingly hostile, the security of our operating environment is ever more important to our clients and potential clients. As a result, the breach or perceived breach of our security systems could result in a loss of confidence by our clients or potential clients and cause them to choose another service provider, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the data or cybersecurity incidents that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, a data or cyber security incident could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. While ADP maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address losses or claims that may arise in connection with certain aspects of data and cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of data and cyber risk. Our systems, applications, solutions and services may be subject to disruptions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and reputation Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, 20 accounting, and other data processing systems. We need to properly manage our systems, applications and solutions, and any upgrades, enhancements and expansions we may undertake from time to time, in order to ensure they properly support our businesses. From time to time, these systems, applications or solutions fail to operate properly or become disabled. Any such failure or disablement, even for a brief period of time, whether due to malevolent acts, errors, defects or any other factor(s), could result in financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. We have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events, including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events. Despite our preparations, our plans and procedures may not be successful in preventing or mitigating the loss of client data or funds, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities. In addition, the severity of the failure or disablement may require us to replace or rebuild the affected system(s), application(s) or solution(s) and we may be unable to do so before it materially adversely affects our business. A disruption of the data centers or cloud-computing or other technology services or systems that we utilize could have a materially adverse effect on our business We host our applications and serve our clients with data centers that we operate, and with data centers that are operated, and cloud-computing and other technology services and systems that are provided, by third-party vendors. These data centers or cloud-computing and other technology services and systems have (and, in the future, may) failed, become disabled or been disrupted. Any failure, disablement or disruption, even for a limited period of time, could disrupt our businesses and we could suffer financial loss, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. In addition, our third-party vendors may cease providing data center facilities or cloud-computing or other technology services or systems, elect to not renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, breach their agreements with us or fail to satisfy our expectations, which could disrupt our operations and require us to incur costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operation or financial condition. BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY RISKS Our industry is subject to rapid technological change, including as a result of AI, and if we fail to upgrade, enhance and expand our technology and services to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may materially diminish Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances (such as AI) and changing client needs and preferences. In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our technology, solutions and services, including by leveraging AI in our solutions. If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges and client needs and preferences or our competitors or other third parties respond to such challenges more quickly or successfully than us, the demand for our solutions and services may diminish. As new technologies (such as AI) continue to emerge, they may be disruptive to the HCM industry. These technologies could result in new and innovative HCM products and solutions that could increase competition, place us at a competitive disadvantage or even render obsolete our technology, products and solutions. In addition, investment in product development and new technologies often involves a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in product development and new technologies. We must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our development efforts before knowing to what extent our investments will result in products the market will accept. In addition, our business could be adversely affected in periods surrounding our new product introductions if clients delay purchasing decisions to evaluate the new product offerings. Furthermore, we may not execute successfully on our product development strategy, including because of challenges with regard to product planning and timing and technical hurdles that we fail to overcome in a timely fashion. We may fail to realize all the economic benefit of our investment in the development of a product which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles and result in a significant charge to earnings. We may not realize or sustain the expected benefits from our business transformation initiatives, and these efforts could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position We have been and will be undertaking certain transformation initiatives, which are designed to streamline our organization, extend our world-class distribution and strengthen our talent and culture, while supporting our revenue growth, margin improvement and productivity. If we do not successfully manage and execute these initiatives, or if they are inadequate or ineffective, we may fail to meet our financial goals and achieve anticipated benefits, improvements may be delayed, not sustained or not realized and our business, operations and competitive position could be adversely affected. These initiatives, or our failure to successfully manage them, could result in unintended consequences or unforeseen costs, including distraction of our management and employees, attrition, inability to attract or retain key personnel, and reduced employee productivity, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences Our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital markets and borrowing costs may be adversely affected by a major natural disaster or catastrophic event, including civil unrest, geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attack, pandemics or other (actual or threatened) public health emergencies, extreme weather, such as droughts, hurricanes, flooding and wildfires (including as a result of climate change), or other events beyond our control, and measures taken in response thereto. The COVID-19 outbreak created, and such other events may create, significant volatility and uncertainty and economic and financial market disruption. The extent of any such impact depends on developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration and scope of the event; the governmental and business actions taken in response thereto; actions taken by the Company in response thereto and the related costs; the impact on economic activity and employment levels; the effect on our clients, prospects, suppliers and partners; our ability to sell and provide our solutions and services, including due to travel restrictions, business and facility closures, and employee remote working arrangements; the ability of our clients or prospects to pay for our services and solutions; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. In addition, clients or prospects may delay decision making, demand pricing and other concessions, reduce the value or duration of their orders, delay planned work or seek to terminate existing agreements. Our business is also impacted by employment levels across our clients, as we have varied contracts throughout our business that blend base fees and per-employee fees. Political, economic and social factors may materially adversely affect our business and financial results Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility. A slowdown in the economy or other negative changes, including in employment levels, the level of interest rates or the level of inflation, may have a negative impact on our businesses. In addition, as our operating costs increase due to inflationary pressure or otherwise, we may not be able to offset these increases by corresponding price increases for our products and solutions. Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on HCM services or renegotiating their contracts with us, which may adversely affect our business and financial results. We invest our funds held for clients in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents. Nevertheless, such investments are subject to general market, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or together, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. In addition, as part of our client funds investment strategy, we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for client funds and utilize short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. In order to satisfy these short-term funding requirements, we maintain access to various sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program and our committed credit facilities, our ability to execute reverse repurchase transactions and corporate cash balances. A reduction in the availability of any such financing during periods of disruption in the financial markets or otherwise may increase our borrowing costs and/or require us to sell available-for-sale securities in our funds held for clients to satisfy our short-term funding requirements. When there is a reduction in employment levels due to a slowdown in the economy, the Company may experience a decline in client fund obligations and may also sell available-for-sale securities in our funds held for clients in order to reduce the size of the funds held for clients to correspond to client fund obligations. A sale of such available-for-sale securities may result in the recognition of losses and reduce the interest income earned on funds held for clients, either or both of which may adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. In connection with our client funds assets investment strategy, we attempt to minimize the risk of not having funds collected from a client available at the time such client’s obligation becomes due by generally impounding the client’s funds at the time of payment of such client’s obligation. When we don’t impound client funds by the time we pay such client obligations (including for PEO clients with respect to which we are legally obligated for payroll and tax obligations in respect of WSEs as a Certified PEO), we are at risk of not recovering such funds or a material delay in such recovery. Such risk could be magnified during significant financial or other disruptions or catastrophic events, such as the failure of a bank with whom a significant number of clients may bank at the time or more widespread stress or failure within the U.S. banking system. Any such event could prevent or materially delay the recovery of any funds from clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We are dependent upon various large banks to execute electronic payments and wire transfers as part of our client payroll, tax and other money movement services. While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a 22 systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll, tax and other money movement services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We publicly share certain information about our environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) initiatives, including our net zero greenhouse gas emissions pledge. We may face increased scrutiny related to our ESG initiatives and any related targets, including from the investment community. In addition, our ability to achieve certain ESG initiatives and targets may depend on the actions or continuing requirements of governmental entities (e.g., our paperless initiatives may depend on whether certain states continue to require employers to offer employees to be paid via paper check or to obtain employee consent to be paid electronically instead of via paper check). Our failure to achieve progress in these and other ESG areas on a timely basis, or at all, could impact our reputation, business, including employee retention, and growth. Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us strong, investment-grade long-term debt ratings and high commercial paper ratings. Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and adversely impact our results of operations. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others We may be subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies. Activist stockholders may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy, including with respect to our ESG efforts, which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, potential clients and business partners and may affect our relationships with current clients, vendors, investors and other third parties. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is, to an important degree, dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated people reflecting diverse perspectives and the diversity of our communities and clients. Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is increasingly intense, making it more difficult and expensive to attract and retain highly skilled, motivated and diverse personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled, motivated and diverse personnel, results of our operations and culture may suffer. In addition, the nature of the office environment and remote or hybrid working is changing, which may make it more difficult to attract and retain personnel. It may also present operational and workplace culture challenges that may adversely affect our business. 23

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Tabular dollars are presented in millions, except per share amounts The following section discusses our year ended June 30, 2023 (“fiscal 2023”), as compared to year ended June 30, 2022 (“fiscal 2022”). A detailed review of our fiscal 2022 performance compared to our fiscal 2021 performance is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like “expects,” “assumes,” “projects,” “anticipates,” “estimates,” “we believe,” “could” “is designed to” and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements.  These statements are based on management’s expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements or that could contribute to such difference include: ADP's success in obtaining and retaining clients, and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; the success of our new solutions; our ability to respond successfully to changes in technology, including artificial intelligence; compliance with existing or new legislation or regulations; changes in, or interpretations of, existing legislation or 26 regulations; overall market, political and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends and inflation; competitive conditions; our ability to maintain our current credit ratings and the impact on our funding costs and profitability; security or cyber breaches, fraudulent acts, and system interruptions and failures; employment and wage levels; availability of skilled associates; the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures; the adequacy, effectiveness and success of our business transformation initiatives; the impact of any uncertainties related to major natural disasters or catastrophic events; and supply-chain disruptions. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under “Item 1A.  Risk Factors,” and in other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In addition to our U.S. GAAP results, we use adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. Adjusted EBIT, adjusted EBIT margin, adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted earnings per share, adjusted effective tax rate and organic constant currency are all non-GAAP financial measures. Please refer to the accompanying financial tables in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section for a discussion of why ADP believes these measures are important and for a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to their comparable GAAP financial measures. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Highlights from the year ended June 30, 2023 include: We are a leading global provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management (“HCM”) technology solutions to employers around the world. Our HCM solutions, which include both software and outsourcing services, are designed to help our clients manage their workforce through a dynamic business and regulatory landscape and the changing world of work. We continuously seek to enhance our leading HCM solutions to further support our clients.  We see tremendous growth opportunity ahead as we focus on our three key Strategic Priorities: leading with best-in-class HCM technology, providing unparalleled expertise and outsourcing, and leveraging our global scale for the benefit of our clients.  Executing on our Strategic Priorities will be critical to enabling our growth in the years ahead. During the fiscal year we drove strong progress across a number of key measures and in support of our overall Strategic Priorities. We crossed a major milestone, surpassing the 1 million client mark, driven by continued enhancements to our key solutions like RUN and Workforce Now. We continued the deployment of our unified User Experience to key portions of our portfolio such as the RUN mobile app. We were awarded Top HR Product for the 8 th consecutive year at the annual HR Tech Conference, in recognition for our recently launched Intelligent Self Service Solution. And our HR Outsourcing businesses continued to grow, now with over 3 million worksite employees served. 27 For fiscal 2023, we delivered solid revenue growth of 9%, 10% organic constant currency. Our pays per control metric, which represents the number of employees on ADP clients' payrolls in the United States when measured on a same-store-sales basis for a subset of clients ranging from small to large businesses, grew 4.7% for the year ended June 30, 2023 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2022. PEO average worksite employees increased 6% for the year ended June 30, 2023, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2022.  Additionally, our strong ES new business bookings performance resulted in full year fiscal 2023 growth of 10%, and client satisfaction gains resulted in a full year ES client revenue retention rate of 92.2%, equal to the highest level we have ever reported. We believe these results are largely attributable to improvements made to our platforms and service over multiple years. We have a strong business model, generating significant cash flows with low capital intensity, and offer a suite of products that provide critical support to our clients’ HCM functions. We generate sufficient free cash flow to satisfy our cash dividend and our modest debt obligations, which enables us to absorb the impact of downturns and remain steadfast in our re-investments, longer term strategy, and commitments to shareholder friendly actions. We are committed to building upon our past successes by investing in our business through enhancements in research and development and by driving meaningful transformation in the way we operate. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2023 and we remain well positioned to support our associates and our clients. RESULTS AND ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS Total Revenues For the year ended June 30, respectively: Revenues in fiscal 2023 increased due to new business started from New Business Bookings, an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs, an increase in our pays per control, continued strong client retention, an increase in interest on funds held for clients, and an increase in pricing, partially offset by an unfavorable impact of one percentage point from foreign currency. Refer to “Analysis of Reportable Segments” for additional discussion of the changes in revenue for each of our reportable segments, Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization (“PEO”) Services. Total revenues in fiscal 2023 include interest on funds held for clients of $813.4 million, as compared to $451.8 million in fiscal 2022. The increase in interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from an  increase in our average interest rate earned to 2.4% in fiscal 2023, as compared to 1.4% in fiscal 2022, coupled with an increase in our average client funds balances of 5.1% to $34.1 billion in fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022. 28 Total Expenses For the year ended June 30: Operating expenses increased due to an increase in our PEO Services zero-margin benefits pass-through costs to $3,800.9 million from $3,514.4 million for the years ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Additionally, operating expenses increased due to increased costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency and a net reduction of $12.3 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity. Systems development and programming costs increased for fiscal 2023 due to increased investments and costs to develop, support, and maintain our new and existing products. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased due to the amortization of internally developed software products and new investments in purchased software. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased due to increased selling expenses as a result of investments in our sales organization, increased marketing expenses, and a reversal of COVID-19 credit loss reserves of  $26.0 million in 2022, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency. Interest expense increased due to the increase i n average interest rates on commercial paper issuances and reverse repurchases to 3.7% and 4.3% for the year ended June 30, 2023, as compared to 0.4% and 0.7% for the year ended June 30, 2022, respectively, also coupled with a higher volume of average commercial paper and reverse repurchase borrowings, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2022 . Other (Income)/Expense, net Interest income on corporate funds increased in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, due to higher average interest rates of 2.4% for the year ended June 30, 2023, as compared to 1.0% for the year ended June 30, 2022, coupled with higher average investment balances for the year ended June 30, 2023 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2022. See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on non-service components of pension income, net. 29 In fiscal 2022, the Company recorded impairment charges of $23.0 million, which is comprised of $12.1 million related to software and customer lists which were determined to have no future use and impairment charges of $10.9 million related to operating right-of-use assets associated with exiting certain leases early. Earnings Before Income Taxes ("EBIT") and Adjusted EBIT For the year ended June 30, respectively: Earnings before income taxes increased due to the increases in revenues partially offset by the increases in expenses discussed above. Overall margin increased due to increases in revenues discussed above, and operating efficiencies for costs of servicing our clients on growing revenue, partially offset by increased selling expenses, increased interest expense, and increases in zero-margin pass through costs. Adjusted EBIT and Adjusted EBIT margin exclude interest income and interest expense that are not related to our client funds extended investment strategy, and net charges, including gain on sale of assets related to our broad-based transformation initiatives and the impact of net severance charges relating to these initiatives, as applicable, in the respective periods. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rate in fiscal 2023 and 2022 was 23.1% and 22.5%, respectively. The increase in t he effective tax rate is primarily due to an intercompany transfer of certain assets that resulted in a lower effective tax rate in fiscal 2022 and higher reserves for uncertain tax positions in fiscal 2023. Refer t o Note 11, Income Taxes, within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Adjusted Provision for Income Taxe s The adjusted effective tax rate in fiscal 2023 and 2022 was 23.1% and 22.5%, respectively. The drivers of the adjusted effective tax rate are the same as the drivers of the effective tax rate discussed above. Net Earnings and Diluted EPS, Unadjusted and Adjusted For the year ended June 30, respectively: 30 Adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS reflect the changes in components described above. Diluted EPS increased as a result of the increase in net earnings and the impact of fewer shares outstanding resulting from the repurchase of approximately 4.9 million shares during fiscal 2023 and 9.2 million shares during fiscal 2022, partially offset by the issuances of shares under our employee benefit plans. For fiscal 2023, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS reflect the changes in components described above. ANALYSIS OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS n/m - not meaningful 31 Employer Services Revenues Revenues increased due to new business started from New Business Bookings, an increase in our pays per control of 5%, continued strong client retention, an increase in interest earned on funds held for clients, and an increase in pricing, partially offset by an unfavorable impact of one percentage point from foreign currency. Earnings before Income Taxes Employer Services' earnings before income taxes increased in fiscal 2023 due to increased revenues discussed above, partially offset by increases in expenses. The increases in expenses were due to increased costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue, increases in selling expenses, and investments and costs to develop, support, and maintain our new and existing products. Margin Employer Services' margin increased due to increases in revenues discussed above, and operating efficiencies for costs of servicing our clients on growing revenue, partially offset by an increase in selling expenses. PEO Services Revenues PEO Services' revenues increased 8% for fiscal 2023 due to increases in average worksite employees of 6% for fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, and due to an increase in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs. Earnings before Income Taxes PEO Services’ earnings before income taxes increased 12% in fiscal 2023 due to increases in revenues discussed above and a net reduction of $12.3 million in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity, partially offset by the increases in zero-margin benefits pass-throughs of $286.5 million for fiscal 2023. Margin PEO Services' overall margin increased for fiscal 2023 due to increases in revenues discussed above, lower state unemployment and workers compensation insurance costs, and changes in our estimated losses related to ADP Indemnity, partially offset by increases in selling expenses. 32 ADP Indemnity provides workers’ compensation and employer’s liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services’ worksite employees up to $1 million per occurrence. PEO Services has secured a workers’ compensation and employer’s liability insurance policy that caps the exposure for each claim at $1 million per occurrence and has also secured  aggregate stop loss insurance that caps aggregate losses at a certain level in fiscal years 2012 and prior from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG. We utilize historical loss experience and actuarial judgment to determine the estimated claim liability, and changes in estimated ultimate incurred losses are included in the PEO segment. Additionally, starting in fiscal year 2013, ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited (“Chubb”), to cover substantially all losses incurred by the Company up to the $1 million per occurrence related to the workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' worksite employees. Each of these reinsurance arrangements limits our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit. The Company believes the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote. During fiscal 2023, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $284 million to enter into a reinsurance arrangement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2023 policy year up to $1 million per occurrence. ADP Indemnity recorded a pre-tax benefit of approximately $73 million in fiscal 2023 and a pre-tax benefit of approximately $61 million in fiscal 2022, which were primarily a result of changes in our estimated actuarial losses. ADP Indemnity paid a premium of $269 million in July 2023, to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for fiscal 2024 policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal 2023 reinsurance policy. Other The primary components of “Other” are certain corporate overhead charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, including corporate functions, costs related to our transformation office, severance costs, non-recurring gains and losses, the elimination of intercompany transactions, and all other interest income and expense. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our GAAP results, we use the adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics set forth in the table below to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods: We believe that the exclusion of the identified items helps us reflect the fundamentals of our underlying business model and analyze results against our expectations and against prior periods, and to plan for future periods by focusing on our underlying operations. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance.  The nature of these exclusions is for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations.  Since these adjusted financial measures and other non-GAAP metrics are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to their corresponding U.S. GAAP measures, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures at other companies. 33 (a) In adjusted EBIT, we include the interest income earned on investments associated with our client funds extended investment strategy and interest expense on borrowings related to our client funds extended investment strategy as we believe these amounts to be fundamental to the underlying operations of our business model. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that are not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as “All other interest expense” and “All other interest income.” (b) In fiscal 2023, the charges include consulting costs relating to our company-wide transformation initiatives, partially offset by net reversals relating to severance. Unlike other severance charges which are not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results, these specific charges relate to actions taken as part of our broad-based, company-wide transformation initiatives. (c) Represents net charges (reserves and insurance recovery) from legal matters during fiscal 2023. (d) The income tax (benefit)/provision was calculated based on the marginal rate in effect for the year ended June 30, 2023. (e) The Adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as our Adjusted provision for income taxes divided by the sum of our Adjusted net earnings plus our Adjusted provision for income taxes. The following table reconciles our reported growth rates to the non-GAAP measure of organic constant currency, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, the impact of dispositions, and the impact of foreign currency. The impact of acquisitions and dispositions is calculated by excluding the current year revenues of acquisitions until the one-year anniversary of the transaction and by excluding the prior year revenues of divestitures for the one-year period preceding the transaction.  The impact of foreign currency is determined by calculating the current year results using foreign exchange rates consistent with the 34 prior year. The PEO segment is not impacted by acquisitions, dispositions or foreign currency. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of June 30, 2023, cash and cash equivalent s were $2.1 billion, which were primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds. For corporate liquidity, we expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term and long-term marketable securities, cash flow from operations together with our $9.7 billion of committed credit facilities and our ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet our operating, investing, and financing activities such as regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future. Our financial condition remains solid at June 30, 2023 and we have sufficient liquidity. For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow through our financing arrangements under our U.S. short-term commercial paper program and our U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom short-term reverse repurchase agreements, together with our $9.7 billion of comm itted credit facilities and our ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations.  Please see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a further discussion of the risks related to our client funds extended investment strategy. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including commercial paper. Operating, Investing and Financing Cash Flow s Our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows are summarized as follows: 35 Net cash flows provided by operating activities increased due to growth in our underlying business (net income adjusted for non-cash adjustments), and a net favorable change in the components of operating assets and liabilities primarily due to timing on collections of accounts receivable, and a decrease in incentive compensation payments, as compared to the year ended June 30, 2022 . Net cash flows used in investing activities changed due to the timing of proceeds and purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities of $4,570.2 million, offset by higher payments for capital expenditures in fiscal 2023, and the sale of property, plant, and equipment in fiscal 2022. Net cash flows used in financing activities changed due to a net decrease in the cash flow from client funds obligations of $29,759.5 million, which is due to the timing of impounds from our clients and payments to our clients' employees and other payees, an increase in dividends paid, and a net decrease in reverse repurchase agreements borrowing, offset by a decrease in repurchases of common stock in fiscal 2023. We purchased approximately 4.9 million shares of our common stock at an average price per share of $227.30 during fiscal 2023, as compared to purchases of 9.2 million shares at an average price per share of $214.40 during fiscal 2022. From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase program. The Company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity, cash balances and cash flows, issuances due to employee benefit plan activity, and market conditions. Capital Resources and Client Fund Obligations We have $3.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2025, 2028, and 2030. We may from time to time revisit the long-t erm debt market to refinance existing debt, finance investments including acquisitions for our growth, and maintain the appropriate capital structure. However, there can be no assurance that volatility in the global capital and credit markets would not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. See Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our notes. Our U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securiti es. This commercial paper program provides for the issuance of up to $9.7 billion in aggregate maturity value . Our c ommercial paper program is rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s, Prime-1 (“P-1”) by Moody’s and F1+ by Fitch. These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities. Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to up to 364 days. At June 30, 2023 and 2022, we had no commercial paper borrowing outstanding. Details of the borrowings under the commercial paper program are as follows: Our U.S., Canadian, and United Kingdom short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. These agreements generally have terms ranging from overnight to up to five business days. We have successfully borrowed through the use of reverse repurchase agreements on an as-needed basis to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. At June 30, 2023 and 2022, there were $105.4 million and $136.4 million, respectively, of outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements. Details of the reverse repurchase agreements are as follows: We vary the maturities of our committed credit facilities to limit the refinancing risk of any one facility. We have a $4.25 billion, 364-day credit agreement that matures in June 2024 with a one year term-out option. In addition, we have a five-year $3.2 billion credit facility and a five-year $2.25 billion credit facility maturing in June 2026 and June 2028, respectively, each with an accordion feature under which the aggregate com mitment can be increased by $ 500 million , subject to the availability 36 of additional commitments.  The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary. We had no borrowings through June 30, 2023 under the credit facilities. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the revolving credit agreements to borrow thereunder, and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the $9.7 billion a vailable to us under the revolving credit agreements. See Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including credit facilities. Our investment portfolio does not contain any asset-backed securities with underlying collateral of sub-prime mortgages, alternative-A mortgages, sub-prime auto loans or sub-prime home equity loans, collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, credit default swaps, derivatives, auction rate securities, structured investment vehicles or non-investment grade fixed-income securities. We own AAA-rated senior tranches of primarily fixed rate auto loan, credit card, and equipment lease receivables, secured predominantly by prime collateral. All collateral on asset-backed securities is performing as expected through June 30, 2023. In addition, we own U.S. government securities which primarily include debt directly issued by Federal Farm Credit Banks and Federal Home Loan Banks. Our client funds investment strategy is structured to allow us to average our way through an interest rate cycle by laddering the maturities of our investments out to five years (in the case of the extended portfolio) and out to ten years (in the case of the long portfolio). This investment strategy is supported by our short-term financing arrangements necessary to satisfy short-term funding requirements relating to client funds obligations. See Note 4 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our corporate investments and funds held for clients. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2023 were $206.0 million, as compared to $177.1 million for fiscal 2022. We expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 to be between $200 million and $225 million. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations at June 30, 2023 relate primarily to operating leases (Note 6) and other arrangements recorded in our balance sheet or disclosed in the notes to our financial statements, including benefit plan obligations (Note 10), liabilities for uncertain tax positions (Note 11), purchase obligations (Note 12), debt obligations (Note 9) and $263.5 million of interest payments of our debt, of which $64.3 million is expected to be paid within one year. In addition to the obligations described above, we had obligations for the remittance of funds relating to our payroll and payroll tax filing services. As of June 30, 2023, the obligations relating to these matters, which are expected to be paid in fiscal 2024, total $38,538.6 million and were recorded in client funds obligations on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We had $36,333.6 million of cas h and cash e quivalents and marketable securities that were impounded from our clients to satisfy such obligations recorded in funds held for clients on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2023. Separately, ADP Indemnity paid a p remium of $269 million in July 2023 to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal 2024 policy year. At June 30, 2023, ADP Indemnity had total assets of $660.8 million to satisfy the actuarially estimated unpaid losses of $552.3 million for the policy years since July 1, 2003. ADP Indemnity paid claims of $0.8 million and $1.8 million, net of insurance recoveries, in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. Refer to the “Analysis of Reportable Segments - PEO Services” above for additional information regarding ADP Indemnity. In the normal course of business, we also enter into contracts in which we make representations and warranties that relate to the performance of our services and products. We do not expect any material losses related to such representations and warranties. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Our overall investment portfolio is comprised of corporate investments (cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term marketable securities) and client funds assets (funds that have been collected from clients but have not yet been remitted to the applicable tax authorities, client employees or other payees). Our corporate investments are invested in cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities. These assets are available for our regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions, as well as other corporate operating purposes. All of our short-term and long-term fixed-income securities are classified as available-for-sale securities. Our client funds assets are invested with safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary objectives. Consistent with those objectives, we also seek to maximize interest income and to minimize the volatility of interest income.  Client funds 37 assets are invested in highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, with a maximum maturity of 10 years at the time of purchase, and money market securities and other cash equivalents. We utilize a strategy by which we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for funds held for clients and employ short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations. Our client funds investment strategy is structured to allow us to average our way through an interest rate cycle by laddering the maturities of our investments out to five years (in the case of the extended portfolio) and out to ten years (in the case of the long portfolio). As part of our client funds investment strategy, we use the daily collection of funds from our clients to satisfy other unrelated client funds obligations, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. In circumstances where we experience a reduction in employment levels due to a slowdown in the economy, we may make tactical decisions to sell certain securities in order to reduce the size of the funds held for clients to correspond to client funds obligations. We attempt to minimize the risk of not having funds collected from a client available at the time such client’s obligation becomes due by generally impounding the client’s funds by the time we pay such client’s obligation. When we don’t impound client funds in advance of paying such client obligations, we are at risk of not recovering such funds or a material delay in such recovery.  Through our clients funds investment strategy and client impounding processes, we have consistently maintained the required level of liquidity to satisfy all of our obligations. There are inherent risks and uncertainties involving our investment strategy relating to our client funds assets. Such risks include liquidity risk, including the risk associated with our ability to liquidate, if necessary, our available-for-sale securities in a timely manner in order to satisfy our client funds obligations. However, our investments are made with the safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary goals to minimize the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy all of our client funds obligations. We also believe we have significantly reduced the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy our client funds obligations by consistently maintaining access to other sources of liquidity, including our corporate cash balances, available borrowings under o ur $9.7 billion commercial paper program (rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor’s, P-1 by Moody’s, and F1+ by Fitch, the highest possible short-term credit ratings), our ability to engage in reverse repurchase agreement transactions and available borrowings under our $9.7 billion committe d credit facilities. The reduced availability of financing during periods of economic turmoil, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our ability to access short-term debt markets to meet the liquidity needs of our business. In addition to liquidity risk, our investments are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk, as discussed below. We have established credit quality, maturity, and exposure limits for our investments. The minimum allowed credit rating at time of purchase for corporate, Canadian government agency and Canadian provincial bonds is BBB, for asset-backed securities is AAA, and for municipal bonds is A. The maximum maturity at time of purchase for BBB-rated securities is 5 years, and for single A rated, AA-rated and AAA-rated securities it is 10 years. Time deposits and commercial paper must be rated A-1 and/or P-1. Money market funds must be rated AAA/Aaa-mf. Details regarding our overall investment portfolio are as follows: 38 We are exposed to interest rate risk in relation to securities that mature, as the proceeds from maturing securities are reinvested. Factors that influence the earnings impact of interest rate changes include, among others, the amount of invested funds and the overall portfolio mix between short-term and long-term investments. This mix varies during the fiscal year and is impacted by daily interest rate changes. The annualized interest rate earned on our entire portfolio increased from 1.3% for fiscal 2022 to 2.4% for fiscal 2023. A hy pothetical chan ge in both short-term interest rates (e.g., overnight interest rates or the federal funds rate) and intermediate-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately an $14 million impact to earnings before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending June 30, 2024. A hypothetical change in only short-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average short-term investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately an $5 million impact to earnings before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending June 30, 2024. We are exposed to credit risk in connection with our available-for-sale securities through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the securities. We limit credit risk by investing in investment-grade securities, primarily AAA-rated and AA- rated securities, as rated by Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, DBRS for Canadian dollar denominated securities, and Fitch for asset-backed and commercial-mortgage-backed securities. In addition, we limit amounts that can be invested in any security other than U.S. government and government agency, Canadian government, and United Kingdom government securities. We operate and transact business in various foreign jurisdictions and are therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. We may use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading purposes. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1, Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and other comprehensive income. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information. The estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. These estimates require levels of subjectivity and judgment, which could result in actual results differing from our estimates. The Company believes the following are its critical accounting estimates: Deferred Costs - Assets Recognized from the Costs to Obtain and Fulfill Contracts Description Incremental costs of obtaining a contract (e.g., sales commissions) and cost incurred to implement clients on our solutions (e.g., direct labor) that are expected to be recovered are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the client retention period, depending on the business unit. Judgments and Uncertainties The Company has estimated the amortization periods for deferred costs by using its historical retention rates by business unit to estimate the pattern during which the service transfers. The expected client relationship period ranges from three to eight years. 39 Sensitivity of Estimate to Change As the assumptions used to estimate the amortization period of the deferred costs could have a material impact on timing of recognition, we assess the amortization periods annually using historical retention rates. Actual retention rates were not materially different than those used in our calculation to determine the amortization period.  We regularly review our deferred costs for impairment. There were no impairment losses incurred during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2023, June 30, 2022, or June 30, 2021. Goodwill. Description Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently when an event or circumstance indicates that goodwill might be impaired. Judgments and Uncertainties The Company’s annual goodwill impairment assessment as of June 30, 2023 was performed for all reporting units using a quantitative approach by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value.  We estimated the fair value of each reporting unit using, as appropriate, the income approach, which is derived using the present value of future cash flows discounted at a risk-adjusted weighted-average cost of capital, and the market approach, which is based upon using market multiples of companies in similar lines of business.  Significant assumptions used in determining the fair value of our reporting units include projected revenue growth rates, profitability projections, working capital assumptions, the weighted average cost of capital, the determination of appropriate market comparison companies, and terminal growth rates.  Several of these assumptions including projected revenue growth rates and profitability projections are dependent on our ability to upgrade, enhance, and expand our technology and services to meet client needs and preferences. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management including the weighted-average cost of capital, tax rates, market comparisons, and terminal growth rates. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in material impairments of our goodwill. The assumptions used to assess impairment consider historical trends, macroeconomic conditions, and projections consistent with the Company’s operating strategy. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of fair value which could result in material impairment losses. We completed our annual assessment of goodwill as of June 30, 2023 and determined that there was no impairment of goodwill. We performed a sensitivity analysis and determined that a one percentage point increase in the weighted-average cost of capital would not result in an impairment of goodwill for all reporting units and their fair values substantially exceeded their carrying values. Income Taxes Description Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns (e.g., realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof).  A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Judgments and Uncertainties The Company computes its provision for income taxes based on the statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the “more likely than not” standard has been met when computing the provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and uncertain tax positions. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change While the Company considers all of its tax positions fully supportable, the Company is occasionally challenged by various tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. If certain pending tax matters settle within the next twelve months, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease for all open tax years and jurisdictions. As of June 30, 2023 and 2022, the Company's liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, which include interest and penalti es, were $116.9 million and $98.1 million, respectively. 40