********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations. We routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be materially different than we presently anticipate. The categories of risk we have identified in Item 1A.— include risks associated with our operations, governmental regulation and laws, our indebtedness and financial condition. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with Item 7 .— in this Form 10-K and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected . Risks Associated with our Operations The operation of power generation, distribution and transmission facilities involves significant risks. We are in the business of generating and distributing electricity, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect financial and operating performance, including: • changes in the availability of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to increases in scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, failure of transmission systems, labor disputes, disruptions in fuel supply, poor hydrologic and wind conditions, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, dam failures, tsunamis, explosions, terrorist acts, cyber attacks or other similar occurrences; and • changes in our operating cost structure, including, but not limited to, increases in costs relating to gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation; purchased electricity; operations, maintenance and repair; environmental compliance, including the cost of purchasing emissions offsets and capital expenditures to install environmental emission equipment; transmission access; and insurance. Our businesses require reliable transportation sources (including related infrastructure such as roads, ports and rail), power sources and water sources to access and conduct operations. The availability and cost of this infrastructure affects capital and operating costs and levels of production and sales. Limitations, or interruptions in this infrastructure or at the facilities of our subsidiaries, including as a result of third parties intentionally or unintentionally disrupting this infrastructure or the facilities of our subsidiaries, could impede their ability to produce electricity. In addition, a portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago and may require significant capital expenditures for maintenance. The equipment at our plants requires periodic upgrading, improvement or repair and replacement equipment or parts may be difficult to obtain in circumstances where we rely on a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. The inability to obtain replacement equipment or parts, due to disruption of the supply chain or other factors, may impact the ability of our plants to perform. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of a power purchase or other agreement or incurrence of a liability for liquidated damages and/or other penalties. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, hurricanes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or actions of third parties or other external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans, and specific programs supported by quality control systems, which may not prevent the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazards described above, along with other safety hazards associated with our operations, can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. Furthermore, we and our affiliates are parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. See Item 3.— below. There can be no assurance that the outcomes of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. We do a significant amount of business outside the U.S., including in developing countries. A significant amount of our revenue is generated in developing countries and we intend to expand our business in certain developing countries in which AES or its customers have an existing presence. International operations, particularly in developing countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including: • economic, social and political instability in any particular country or region; • adverse changes in currency exchange rates; • government restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary, fiscal or environmental policies; • high inflation and monetary fluctuations; • restrictions on imports of solar panels, wind turbines, coal, oil, gas or other raw materials; • threatened or consummated expropriation or nationalization of our assets by foreign governments; • unexpected delays in permitting and governmental approvals; • unexpected changes or instability affecting our strategic partners in developing countries; • failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or other applicable anti-bribery regulations; • unwillingness of governments, agencies, similar organizations or other counterparties to honor contracts; • unwillingness of governments, government agencies, courts or similar bodies to enforce contracts that are economically advantageous to AES and less beneficial to government or private party counterparties, against those counterparties; • inability to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative and legal systems; • adverse changes in government tax policy and tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions; • difficulties in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a favorable result in local jurisdictions; and • inability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Developing projects in less developed economies also entails greater financing risks and such financing may only be available from multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies that require governmental guarantees for certain project and sovereign-related risks. There can be no assurance that project financing will be available. Further, our operations may experience volatility in revenues and operating margin caused by regulatory and economic difficulties, political instability and currency devaluations, which may increase the uncertainty of cash flows from these businesses. Any of these factors could have a material, adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the wholesale electricity markets. Some of our businesses sell or buy electricity in the spot markets when they operate at levels that differ from their power sales agreements or retail load obligations or when they do not have any powers sales agreements. Our businesses may also buy electricity in the wholesale spot markets. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. The open market wholesale prices for electricity can be volatile and generally reflect the variable cost of the source generation which could include renewable sources at near zero pricing or thermal sources subject to fluctuating cost of fuels such as coal, natural gas or oil derivative fuels in addition to other factors described below. Consequently, any changes in the generation supply stack and cost of coal, natural gas, or oil derivative fuels may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity may result from, among other things: • plant availability in the markets generally; • availability and effectiveness of transmission facilities owned and operated by third parties; • competition and new entrants; • seasonality, hydrology and other weather conditions; • illiquid markets; • transmission, transportation constraints, inefficiencies and/or availability; • renewables source contribution to the supply stack; • increased adoption of distributed generation; • energy efficiency and demand side resources; • available supplies of coal, natural gas, and crude oil and refined products; • generating unit performance; • natural disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes, pandemics and other catastrophic events; • energy, market and environmental regulation, legislation and policies; • general economic conditions that impact demand and energy consumption; and • bidding behavior and market bidding rules. Wholesale power prices may experience significant volatility in our markets which could impact our operations and opportunities for future growth. The wholesale prices offered for electricity have been volatile in the markets in which we operate due to a variety of factors, including the increased penetration of renewable generation resources, low-priced natural gas and demand side management. The levelized cost of electricity from new solar and wind generation sources has decreased substantially in recent years as solar panel costs and wind turbine costs have declined, while wind and solar capacity factors have increased. These renewable resources have no fuel costs and very low operational costs , while only operating during certain periods of time (daylight) or weather conditions (higher winds). This, combined with changes in oil, gas, and coal pricing, has led to increasingly volatile electricity markets across our markets. A lso, in many markets, new PPAs have been awarded for renewable generation at prices significantly lower than those awarded just a few years ago. This trend of volatility in wholesale prices could continue and could have a material adverse impact on the financial performance of our existing generation assets to the extent they currently sell or buy power into the spot market to serve our contracts or will seek to sell power into the spot market once our contracts expire. The COVID-19 pandemic, or the future outbreak of any other highly infectious or contagious diseases, could impact our business and operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted global economic activity, including electricity and energy consumption. COVID-19 or another pandemic could have material and adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to, among other factors: • further decline in customer demand as a result of general decline in business activity; • further destabilization of the markets and decline in business activity negatively impacting customers’ ability to pay for our services when due or at all, including downstream impacts, whereby the utilities’ customers are unable to pay monthly bills or receiving a moratorium from payment obligations, resulting in inability on the part of utilities to make payments for power supplied by our generation companies; • decline in business activity causing our commercial and industrial customers to experience declining revenues and liquidity difficulties that impede their ability to pay for power that we supply; • government moratoriums or other regulatory or legislative actions that limit changes in pricing, delay or suspend customers’ payment obligations or permit extended payment terms applicable to customers of our utilities or to our offtakers under power purchase agreements, in particular, to the extent that such measures are not mitigated by associated government subsidies or other support to address any shortfall or deficiencies in payments; • claims by our PPA counterparties for delay or relief from payment obligations or other adjustments, including claims based on force majeure or other legal grounds; • further decline in spot electricity prices; • the destabilization of the markets and decline in business activity negatively impacting our customer growth in our service territories at our utilities; • negative impacts on the health of our essential personnel and on our operations as a result of implementing stay-at-home, quarantine, curfew and other social distancing measures; • delays or inability to access, transport and deliver fuel to our generation facilities due to restrictions on business operations or other factors affecting us and our third-party suppliers; • delays or inability to access equipment or the availability of personnel to perform planned and unplanned maintenance or disruptions in supply chain, which can, in turn, lead to disruption in operations; • a deterioration in our ability to ensure business continuity, including increased cybersecurity attacks related to the work-from-home environment; • further delays to our construction projects, including at our renewables projects, and the timing of the completion of renewables projects; • delay or inability to receive the necessary permits for our development projects due to delays or shutdowns of government operations; • delays in achieving our financial goals, strategy and digital transformation; • deterioration of the credit profile of The AES Corporation and/or its subsidiaries and difficulty accessing the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, or at all, and a severe disruption and instability in the global financial markets, or deterioration in credit and financing conditions, which could affect our access to capital necessary to fund business operations or address maturing liabilities on a timely basis; • delays or inability to complete asset sales on anticipated terms or to redeploy capital as set forth in our capital allocation plans; • increased volatility in foreign exchange and commodity markets; • deterioration of economic conditions, demand and other related factors resulting in impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets; and • delay or inability in obtaining regulatory actions and outcomes that could be material to our business, including for recovery of COVID-19 related losses and the review and approval of our rates at our U.S. regulated utilities. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic also depends on factors, including the effectiveness and timing of vaccine development and distribution efforts, the development of more virulent COVID-19 variants as well as third-party actions taken to contain its spread and mitigate its public health effects. The COVID-19 pandemic presents material uncertainty that could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, development projects, energy storage sales by Fluence, and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The COVID-19 pandemic may also heighten many of the other risks described in this section. Adverse economic developments in China could have a negative impact on demand for electricity in many of our markets. The Chinese market has been driving global materials demand and pricing for commodities over the past decade. Many of these commodities are produced in our key electricity markets. After experiencing rapid growth for more than a decade, China’s economy has experienced decreasing foreign and domestic demand, weak investment, factory overcapacity and oversupply in the property market, and has experienced a significant slowdown in recent years. U.S. tariffs have also had a negative impact on China's economic growth. Continued slowing in China’s economic growth, demand for commodities and/or material changes in policy could result in lower economic growth and lower demand for electricity in our key markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may not have adequate risk mitigation and/or insurance coverage for liabilities. Power generation, distribution and transmission involves hazardous activities. We may become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate risk mitigation and/or insurance coverage. Furthermore, through AGIC, AES’ captive insurance company, we take certain insurance risk on our businesses. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is customary, but there can be no assurance it will be sufficient or effective in light of all circumstances, hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Our insurance does not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable. In particular, the availability of insurance for coal-fired generation assets has decreased as certain insurers have opted to discontinue or limit offering insurance for such assets. Certain insurers have also withdrawn from insuring hydroelectric assets. We cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available in the amounts or on terms similar to our current policies. In addition, insurance may not fully cover the liability or the consequences of any business interruptions such as natural catastrophes, equipment failure or labor dispute. The occurrence of a significant adverse event not adequately covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results or operations, financial condition, and prospects. We may not be able to enter into long-term contracts that reduce volatility in our results. Many of our generation plants conduct business under long-term sales and supply contracts, which helps these businesses to manage risks by reducing the volatility associated with power and input costs and providing a stable revenue and cost structure. In these instances, we rely on power sales contracts with one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in some cases all of, the relevant plant's output and revenues over the term of the power sales contract. The remaining terms of the power sales contracts of our generation plants range from one to more than 20 years. In many cases, we also limit our exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices by entering into long-term contracts for fuel with a limited number of suppliers. In these instances, the cash flows and results of operations are dependent on the continued ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract, respectively. Some of our long-term power sales agreements are at prices above current spot market prices and some of our long-term fuel supply contracts are at prices below current market prices. The loss of significant power sales contracts or fuel supply contracts, or the failure by any of the parties to such contracts that prevents us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder, could adversely impact our strategy by resulting in costs that exceed revenue, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, depending on market conditions and regulatory regimes, it may be difficult for us to secure long-term contracts, either where our current contracts are expiring or for new development projects. The inability to enter into long-term contracts could require many of our businesses to purchase inputs at market prices and sell electricity into spot markets, which may not be favorable. We have sought to reduce counterparty credit risk under our long-term contracts by entering into power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of strong credit quality and by obtaining guarantees from certain sovereign governments of the customer's obligations; however, many of our customers do not have or have not maintained, investment-grade credit ratings. Our generation businesses cannot always obtain government guarantees and if they do, the government may not have an investment grade credit rating. We have also located our plants in different geographic areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns; however, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be effective. Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties. Wind, solar, and energy storage projects are subject to substantial risks. Some of these business lines are dependent upon favorable regulatory incentives to support continued investment, and there is significant uncertainty about the extent to which such favorable regulatory incentives will be available in the future. In particular, in the U.S., AES’ renewable energy generation growth strategy depends in part on federal, state and local government policies and incentives that support the development, financing, ownership and operation of renewable energy generation projects, including investment tax credits, production tax credits, accelerated depreciation, renewable portfolio standards, feed-in-tariffs and similar programs, renewable energy credit mechanisms, and tax exemptions. If these policies and incentives are changed or eliminated, or AES is unable to use them, there could be a material adverse impact on AES’ U.S. renewable growth opportunities, including fewer future PPAs or lower prices in future PPAs, decreased revenues, reduced economic returns on certain project company investments, increased financing costs, and/or difficulty obtaining financing. Furthermore, production levels for our wind and solar projects may be dependent upon adequate wind or sunlight resulting in volatility in production levels and profitability. For our wind projects, wind resource estimates are based on historical experience when available and on wind resource studies conducted by an independent engineer. These wind resource estimates are not expected to reflect actual wind energy production in any given year, but long-term averages of a resource. As a result, these types of projects face considerable risk, including that favorable regulatory regimes expire or are adversely modified. At the development or acquisition stage, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and the projects may not perform as predicted. There are also risks associated with the fact that some of these projects exist in markets where long-term fixed-price contracts for the major cost and revenue components may be unavailable, which in turn may result in these projects having relatively high levels of volatility. These projects can be capital-intensive and generally are designed with a view to obtaining third-party financing, which may be difficult to obtain. As a result, these capital constraints may reduce our ability to develop or obtain third-party financing for these projects. Our acquisitions may not perform as expected. Acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth strategy historically and more recently as we grow our renewables business. Although acquired businesses may have significant operating histories, we may have limited or no history of owning and operating certain of these businesses, and possibly limited or no experience operating in the country or region where these businesses are located. We also may encounter challenges in integrating and realizing the expected benefits of these acquisitions as well as integration or other one-time costs that are greater than expected. Such businesses may not generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them; and the rate of return from such businesses may not justify our investment of capital to acquire them. In addition, some of these businesses may have been government owned and some may be operated as part of a larger integrated utility prior to their acquisition. If we were to acquire any of these types of businesses, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership or that we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities. Competition is increasing and could adversely affect us. The power production markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to, or greater than, ours. Further, in recent years, the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring existing power generation assets. In certain markets, these factors have caused reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets through competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets and the development of highly efficient gas-fired power plants and renewables such as wind and solar have also caused, and could continue to cause, price pressure in certain power markets where we sell or intend to sell power. In addition, the introduction of low-cost disruptive technologies or the entry of non-traditional competitors into our sector and markets could adversely affect our ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Supplier and/or customer concentration may expose us to significant financial credit or performance risks. We often rely on a single contracted supplier or a small number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of some of our facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, we would seek to meet our fuel requirements by purchasing fuel at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price, which could adversely impact the profitability of the affected business and our results of operations, and could result in a breach of agreements with other counterparties, including, without limitation, offtakers or lenders. Further, our suppliers may source certain materials from areas impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which may cause delays and/or disruptions to our development projects or operations. The financial performance of our facilities is dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance by, suppliers and customers. At times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility's output, in some cases under long-term agreements that account for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a given facility. Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable to perform their obligations, due to bankruptcy, insolvency, financial distress or other factors. Furthermore, in the event of a bankruptcy or similar insolvency-type proceeding, our counterparty can seek to reject our existing PPA under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar bankruptcy laws, including those in Puerto Rico. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements, and may have to sell power at market prices. A counterparty's breach by of a PPA or other agreement could also result in the breach of other agreements, including the affected businesses debt agreements. Any failure of a supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may incur significant expenditures to adapt to our businesses to technological changes. Emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, or may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services and products that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. Technological changes that could impact our businesses include: • technologies that change the utilization of electric generation, transmission and distribution assets, including the expanded cost-effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects), and energy storage technology; • advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage that reduce demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation or impact our customers’ performance of long-term agreements; and • more cost-effective batteries for energy storage, advances in solar or wind technology, and advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources. Emerging technologies may also allow new competitors to more effectively compete in our markets or disintermediate the services we provide our customers, including traditional utility and centralized generation services. If we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, or if implemented technology fails to operate as intended, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Cyber-attacks and data security breaches could harm our business. Our business relies on electronic systems and network technologies to operate our generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure. We also use various financial, accounting and other infrastructure systems. Our infrastructure may be targeted by nation states, hacktivists, criminals, insiders or terrorist groups. Such an attack, by hacking, malware or other means, may interrupt our operations, cause property damage, affect our ability to control our infrastructure assets, cause the release of sensitive customer information or limit communications with third parties. Any loss or corruption of confidential or proprietary data through a breach may: • impact our operations, revenue, strategic objectives, customer and vendor relationships; • expose us to legal claims and/or regulatory investigations and proceedings; • require extensive repair and restoration costs for additional security measures to avert future attacks; and • impair our reputation and limit our competitiveness for future opportunities. • impact our financial and accounting systems and, subsequently, our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. We have implemented measures to help prevent unauthorized access to our systems and facilities, including certain measures to comply with mandatory regulatory reliability standards. To date, cyber-attacks have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results. We continue to assess potential threats and vulnerabilities and make investments to address them, including global monitoring of networks and systems, identifying and implementing new technology, improving user awareness through employee security training, and updating our security policies as well as those for third-party providers. We cannot guarantee the extent to which our security measures will prevent future cyber-attacks and security breaches or that our insurance coverage will adequately cover any losses we may experience. Further, we do not control certain of joint ventures or our equity method investments and cannot guarantee that their efforts will be effective. Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and hydrology. Our businesses are affected by variations in general weather patterns and unusually severe weather. Our businesses forecast electric sales based on best available information and expectations for weather, which represents a long-term historical average. While we also consider possible variations in normal weather patterns and potential impacts on our facilities and our businesses, there can be no assurance that such planning can prevent these impacts, which can adversely affect our business. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less demand for electricity than forecasted. Significant variations from normal weather where our businesses are located could have a material impact on our results of operations. Changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, our wind and solar facilities. For example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. Because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, our results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and our results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. To the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. In addition, we are dependent upon hydrological conditions prevailing from time to time in the broad geographic regions in which our hydroelectric generation facilities are located. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions also could affect the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. To the extent that hydrological conditions result in droughts or other conditions negatively affect our hydroelectric generation business, such as has happened in Panama in 2019, our results of operations can be materially adversely affected. Additionally, our contracts in certain markets where hydroelectric facilities are prevalent may require us to purchase power in the spot markets when our facilities are unable to operate at anticipated levels and the price of such spot power may increase substantially in times of low hydrology. Severe weather and natural disasters may present significant risks to our business. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events, earthquakes, dam failures and tsunamis can be destructive and could prevent us from operating our business in the normal course by causing power outages and property damage, reducing revenue, affecting the availability of fuel and water, causing injuries and loss of life, and requiring us to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. Our power plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, including heatwaves, fewer cold temperature extremes, abnormal levels of precipitation resulting in river and coastal urban floods in North America or reduced water availability and increased flooding across Central and South America, and changes in coast lines due to sea level change. Depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; releases of natural gas, natural gas odorant, or other greenhouse gases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. Such incidents may also impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide electricity and natural gas to our customers. A disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent us from operating our business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. At our businesses where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Our development projects are subject to substantial uncertainties. We are in various stages of developing and constructing power plants and renewables projects. Certain of these projects have signed long-term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity. Successful completion of the development of these projects depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including risks relating to siting, financing, engineering and construction, permitting, governmental approvals, commissioning delays, supply chain related disruptions to our access to materials, or the potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones. In certain cases, our subsidiaries may enter into obligations in the development process even though they have not yet secured financing, PPAs, or other important elements for a successful project. For example, our subsidiaries may instruct contractors to begin the construction process or seek to procure equipment without having financing, a PPA or critical permits in place (or enter into a PPA, procurement agreement or other agreement without agreed financing). If the project does not proceed, our subsidiaries may retain certain liabilities. Furthermore, we may undertake significant development costs and subsequently not proceed with a particular project. We believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable; however, there can be no assurance that any individual project reach commercial operation. If development efforts are not successful, we may abandon certain projects, resulting in, writing off the costs incurred, expensing related capitalized development costs incurred and incurring additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. We do not control certain aspects of our joint ventures or our equity method investments. We have invested in some joint ventures in which our subsidiaries share operational, management, investment and/or other control rights with our joint venture partners. In many cases, we may exert influence over the joint venture pursuant to a management contract, by holding positions on the board of the joint venture company or on management committees and/or through certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we do not always have this type of influence over the project or business and we may be dependent on our joint venture partners or the management team of the joint venture to operate, manage, invest or otherwise control such projects or businesses. Our joint venture partners or the management team of our joint ventures may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects or businesses optimally, and they may not share our business priorities. In some joint venture agreements in which we do have majority control of the voting securities, we have entered into shareholder agreements granting minority rights to the other shareholders. The approval of joint venture partners also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from jointly owned entities or to transfer our interest in projects or businesses. The control or influence exerted by our joint venture partners may result in operational management and/or investment decisions that are different from the decisions we would make and could impact the profitability and value of these joint ventures. In addition, if a joint venture partner becomes insolvent or bankrupt or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations to or share of liabilities for the joint venture, we may be responsible for meeting certain obligations of the joint ventures to the extent provided for in our governing documents or applicable law. Further, we have a significant equity method investment in Fluence. As a publicly listed company, Fluence is governed by its own Board of Directors, whose members have fiduciary duties to the Fluence shareholders. While we have certain rights to appoint representatives to the Fluence Board of Directors, the interests of the Fluence shareholders, as represented by the Fluence Board of Directors, may not align with our interests or the interests of our securityholders. In addition, we are generally dependent on the management team of our equity method investments to operate and control such projects or businesses. While we may exert influence pursuant to having positions on the boards of such investments and/or through certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions, we do not always have this type of influence and the scope and impact of such influence may be limited. The management teams of our equity method investments may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects or businesses optimally, and they may not share our business priorities, which could have a material adverse effect on value of such investments as well as our growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact our financial results and position. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity's functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of several of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies where our foreign subsidiaries report could cause significant fluctuations in our results. In addition, while our foreign operations expenses are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, we have transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in the subsidiary's functional currency. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities to lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price or indexed forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We also enter into contracts which help us manage our interest rate exposure. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price or interest rate volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Furthermore, the risk management practices we have in place may not always perform as planned. In particular, if prices of commodities or interest rates significantly deviate from historical prices or interest rates or if the price or interest rate volatility or distribution of these changes deviates from historical norms, our risk management practices may not protect us from significant losses. As a result, fluctuating commodity prices or interest rates may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged or inadequately hedged positions. In addition, certain types of economic hedging activities may not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP, resulting in increased volatility in our net income. The Company may also suffer losses associated with "basis risk," which is the difference in performance between the hedge instrument and the underlying exposure (usually the pricing node of the generation facility). Furthermore, there is a risk that the current counterparties to these arrangements may fail or are unable to perform part or all of their obligations under these arrangements, while we seek to protect against that by utilizing strong credit requirements and exchange trades, these protections may not fully cover the exposure in the event of a counterparty default. For our businesses with PPA pricing that does not completely pass through our fuel costs, the businesses attempt to manage the exposure through flexible fuel purchasing and timing of entry and terms of our fuel supply agreements; however, these risk management efforts may not be successful and the resulting commodity exposure could have a material impact on these businesses and/or our results of operations. Our utilities businesses may experience slower growth in customers or in customer usage. Customer growth and customer usage in our utilities businesses are affected by external factors, including mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. A lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity may cause us to not realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions. We have 32 defined benefit plans, five at U.S. subsidiaries and the remaining plans at foreign subsidiaries, which cover substantially all of the employees at these subsidiaries. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be incorrect, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. We periodically evaluate the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund the respective pension obligations. Downturns in the debt and/or equity markets, or the inaccuracy of any of our significant assumptions underlying the estimates of our subsidiaries' pension plan obligations, could result in a material increase in pension expense and future funding requirements. Our subsidiaries that participate in these plans are responsible for satisfying the funding requirements required by law in their respective jurisdictions for any shortfall of pension plan assets as compared to pension obligations under the pension plan, which may necessitate additional cash contributions to the pension plans that could adversely affect our and our subsidiaries' liquidity. See Item 7.— and Note 15— included in Item 8.— . Impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $1.2 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 4% of our total assets. Goodwill is not amortized, but is evaluated for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. We may be required to evaluate the potential impairment of goodwill outside of the required annual evaluation process if we experience situations, such as: deterioration in general economic conditions or our operating or regulatory environment; increased competitive environment; lower forecasted revenue; increase in fuel costs, particularly costs that we are unable to pass through to customers; increase in environmental compliance costs; negative or declining cash flows; loss of a key contract or customer, particularly when we are unable to replace it on equally favorable terms; developments in our strategy; divestiture of a significant component of our business; or adverse actions or assessments by a regulator. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment. Additionally, goodwill may be impaired if our acquisitions do not perform as expected. Long-lived assets are initially recorded at fair value, are amortized or depreciated over their estimated useful lives, and are evaluated for impairment only when impairment indicators, similar to those described above for goodwill, are present. Any impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Risks associated with Governmental Regulation and Laws Our operations are subject to significant government regulation and could be adversely affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes. Our ability to predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law or regulatory schemes, including obtaining expected or contracted increases in electricity tariff or contract rates or tariff adjustments for increased expenses, could adversely impact our results of operations. Furthermore, changes in laws or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation of regulatory provisions in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly at our utilities where electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review or approval, could adversely affect our business, including: • changes in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as reimbursable or pass-through costs to be included in the rates we charge our customers, including but not limited to costs incurred to upgrade our power plants to comply with more stringent environmental regulations; • changes in the determination of an appropriate rate of return on invested capital or that a utility's operating income or the rates it charges customers are too high, resulting in a rate reduction or consumer rebates; • changes in the definition or determination of controllable or non-controllable costs; • changes in tax law; • changes in law or regulation that limit or otherwise affect the ability of our counterparties (including sovereign or private parties) to fulfill their obligations (including payment obligations) to us; • changes in environmental law that impose additional costs or limit the dispatch of our generating facilities; • changes in the definition of events that qualify as changes in economic equilibrium; • changes in the timing of tariff increases; • other changes in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions; • other changes related to licensing or permitting which affect our ability to conduct business; or • other changes that impact the short- or long-term price-setting mechanism in the our markets. Furthermore, in many countries where we conduct business, the regulatory environment is constantly changing and it may be difficult to predict the impact of the regulations on our businesses. The impacts described above could also result from our efforts to comply with European Market Infrastructure Regulation, which includes regulations related to the trading, reporting and clearing of derivatives and similar regulations may be passed in other jurisdictions where we conduct business. Any of the above events may result in lower operating margins and financial results for the affected businesses. Several of our businesses are subject to potentially significant remediation expenses, enforcement initiatives, private party lawsuits and reputational risk associated with CCR. CCR generated at our current and former coal-fired generation plant sites, is currently handled and/or has been handled by: placement in onsite CCR ponds; disposal and beneficial use in onsite and offsite permitted, engineered landfills; use in various beneficial use applications, including encapsulated uses and structural fill; and used in permitted offsite mine reclamation. CCR currently remains onsite at several of our facilities, including in CCR ponds. The EPA's final CCR rule provides that enforcement actions can be commenced by the EPA, states, or territories, and private lawsuits. Compliance with the U.S. federal CCR rule; amendments to the federal CCR rule; or federal, state, territory, or foreign rules or programs addressing CCR may require us to incur substantial costs. In addition, the Company and our businesses may face CCR-related lawsuits in the United States and/or internationally that may expose us to unexpected potential liabilities. Furthermore, CCR-related litigation may also expose us to unexpected costs. In addition, CCR, and its production at several of our facilities, have been the subject of significant interest from environmental non-governmental organizations and have received national and local media attention. The direct and indirect effects of such media attention, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may divert management time and attention. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Some of our U.S. businesses are subject to the provisions of various laws and regulations administered by FERC, NERC and by state utility commissions that can have a material effect on our operations. The AES Corporation is a registered electric holding company under the PUHCA 2005 as enacted as part of the EPAct 2005. PUHCA 2005 eliminated many of the restrictions that had been in place under the U.S. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, while continuing to provide FERC and state utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain utility holding companies. PUHCA 2005 also creates additional potential challenges and opportunities. By removing some barriers to mergers and other potential combinations, the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility holding companies is more likely. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and therefore an increased ability to compete with us in the U.S.. Other parts of the EPAct 2005 allow FERC to remove the PURPA purchase/sale obligations from utilities if there are adequate opportunities to sell into competitive markets. FERC has exercised this power with a rebuttable presumption that utilities located within the control areas of MISO, PJM, ISO New England, Inc., the New York Independent System Operator, Inc., and ERCOT are not required to purchase or sell power from or to QFs above a certain size. Additionally, FERC has the power to remove the purchase/sale obligations of individual utilities on a case-by-case basis. While these changes do not affect existing contracts, certain of our QFs that have had sales contracts expire are now facing a more difficult market environment and that is likely to continue for other AES QFs with existing contracts that will expire over time. FERC strongly encourages competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased competition may have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps, FERC has encouraged RTOs and ISOs to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for responding to peak electric demand. These programs may reduce the value of generation assets. Similarly, FERC is encouraging the construction of new transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions of EPAct 2005. Although new transmission lines may increase market opportunities, they may also increase the competition in our existing markets. FERC has civil penalty authority over violations of any provision of Part II of the FPA, which concerns wholesale generation or transmission, as well as any rule or order issued thereunder. The FPA also provides for the assessment of criminal fines and imprisonment for violations under the FPA. This penalty authority was enhanced in EPAct 2005. As a result, FERC is authorized to assess a maximum penalty authority established by statute and such penalty authority has been and will continue to be adjusted periodically to account for inflation. With this expanded enforcement authority, violations of the FPA and FERC's regulations could potentially have more serious consequences than in the past. Pursuant to EPAct 2005, the NERC has been certified by FERC as the ERO to develop mandatory and enforceable electric system reliability standards applicable throughout the U.S. to improve the overall reliability of the electric grid. These standards are subject to FERC review and approval. Once approved, the reliability standards may be enforced by FERC independently, or, alternatively, by the ERO and regional reliability organizations with responsibility for auditing, investigating and otherwise ensuring compliance with reliability standards, subject to FERC oversight. Violations of NERC reliability standards are subject to FERC's penalty authority under the FPA and EPAct 2005. Our U.S. utility businesses face significant regulation by their respective state utility commissions. The regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in both Indiana and Ohio and includes regulation as to services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of certain securities, the acquisition and sale of some public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. These businesses face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See Item 1. — . Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations by many federal, regional, state and local authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These laws and regulations generally concern emissions into the air, effluents into the water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, endangered species and noise regulation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to obtain or comply with any associated environmental permits could result in fines or other sanctions. For example, in recent years, the EPA has issued NOVs to a number of coal-fired generating plants alleging wide-spread violations of the new source review and prevention of significant deterioration provisions of the CAA. The EPA has brought suit against and obtained settlements with many companies for allegedly making major modifications to a coal-fired generating units without proper permit approvals and without installing best available control technology. The primary focus of these NOVs has been emissions of SO 2 and NO x and the EPA has imposed fines and required companies to install improved pollution control technologies to reduce such emissions. In addition, state regulatory agencies and non-governmental environmental organizations have pursued civil lawsuits against power plants in situations that have resulted in judgments and/or settlements requiring the installation of expensive pollution controls or the accelerated retirement of certain electric generating units. Furthermore, Congress and other domestic and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly those involving air emissions and water discharges. These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our power plants. See Item 1.— . We have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations. Changes in, or new development of, environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition, including recorded asset values or results of operations, would not be materially and adversely affected. Concerns about GHG emissions and the potential risks associated with climate change have led to increased regulation and other actions that could impact our businesses. International, federal and various regional and state authorities regulate GHG emissions and have created financial incentives to reduce them. In 2021, the Company's subsidiaries operated businesses that had total CO 2 emissions of approximately 47 million metric tonnes, approximately 16 million of which were emitted by our U.S. businesses (both figures are ownership adjusted). The Company uses CO 2 emission estimation methodologies supported by "The Greenhouse Gas Protocol" reporting standard on GHG emissions. For existing power generation plants, CO 2 emissions data are either obtained directly from plant continuous emission monitoring systems or calculated from actual fuel heat inputs and fuel type CO 2 emission factors. The estimated annual CO 2 emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric power generation facilities of the Company's subsidiaries that are in construction or development are approximately 4 million metric tonnes (ownership adjusted). This estimate is based on a number of projections and assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, such as the forecasted dispatch, anticipated plant efficiency, fuel type, CO 2 emissions rates and our subsidiaries' achieving completion of such construction and development projects. While actual emissions may vary substantially; the projects under construction or development when completed will increase emissions of our portfolio and therefore could increase the risks associated with regulation of GHG emissions. There currently is no U.S. federal legislation imposing mandatory GHG emission reductions (including for CO 2 ) that affects our electric power generation facilities; however, in 2015, the EPA promulgated a rule establishing New Source Performance Standards for CO 2 emissions for newly constructed and modified/reconstructed fossil-fueled electric utility steam generating units larger than 25 MW and in 2018 proposed revisions to the rule. In 2019, the EPA promulgated the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) Rule which establishes heat rate improvement measures as the best system of emissions reductions for existing coal-fired electric generating units. On January 19, 2021, the D.C. Circuit vacated and remanded to EPA the ACE Rule although the parties have the opportunity to request a rehearing at the D.C. Circuit or seek a review of the decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. The impact of this decision and potential new or revised rules from the current Administration remains uncertain. In 2010, the EPA adopted regulations pertaining to GHG emissions that require new and existing sources of GHG emissions to potentially obtain new source review permits from the EPA prior to construction or modification. In 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that such permitting would only be required if such sources also must obtain a new source review permit for increases in other regulated pollutants. For further discussion of the regulation of GHG emissions, see Item 1. — above. The Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change's Paris Agreement established a long-term goal of keeping the increase in global average temperature well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. We anticipate that the Paris Agreement will continue the trend toward efforts to decarbonize the global economy and to further limit GHG emissions. The impact of GHG regulation on our operations will depend on a number of factors, including the degree and timing of GHG emissions reductions required under any such legislation or regulation, the cost of emissions reduction equipment and the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on the ability of our subsidiaries to recover costs incurred through rate increases or otherwise. The costs of compliance could be substantial. Our non-utility, generation subsidiaries seek to pass on any costs arising from CO 2 emissions to contract counterparties. Likewise, our utility subsidiaries seek to pass on any costs arising from CO 2 emissions to customers. However, there can be no assurance that we will effectively pass such costs onto the contract counterparties or customers, respectively, or that the cost and burden associated with any dispute over which party bears such costs would not be burdensome and costly. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow-fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, and changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect our business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at our electric power transmission and distribution assets and facilities. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, would also be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease our revenues. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. In addition to government regulators, many groups, including politicians, environmentalists, the investor community and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. New regulation, such as the initiatives in Chile, Hawaii, and the Puerto Rico Energy Public Policy Act, may adversely affect our operations. See Item 7. — . Responding to these decarbonization initiatives, including developments in our strategy in line with these initiatives may present challenges to our business. We may be unable to develop our renewables platform as quickly as anticipated. Further, we may be unable to dispose of coal-fired generation assets at anticipated prices, the estimated useful lives of these assets may decrease, and the value of such assets may be impaired. These initiatives could also result in the early retirement of coal-fired generation facilities, which could result in stranded costs if regulators disallow full recovery of investments. Negative public perception of our GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our relationships with third parties, our ability to attract additional customers, our business development opportunities, and our ability to access finance and insurance for our coal-fired generation assets. In addition, plaintiffs previously brought tort lawsuits that were dismissed against the Company because of its subsidiaries' GHG emissions. Future similar lawsuits may prevail or result in damages awards or other relief. We may also be subject to risks associated with the impact on weather conditions. See Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and hydrology and Severe weather and natural disasters may present significant risks to our business and adversely affect our financial results within this section for more information. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition,cash flows and reputation. Concerns about data privacy have led to increased regulation and other actions that could impact our businesses. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identifiable information about customers, employees, customer energy usage and other information as well as information regarding business partners and other third parties, some of which may constitute confidential information. The theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data collected by us can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm o ur reputation. Although we maintain technical and organizational measures to protect personal identifiable information and other confidential information, breaches of, or disruptions to, our information technology systems could result in legal claims, liability or penalties under privacy laws or damage to operations or to the company's reputation, which could adversely affect our business. We are also subject to various data privacy and security laws and regulations globally, as well as contractual requirements, as a result of having access to and processing confidential and personal identifiable information in the course of business. If we are unable to comply with applicable laws and regulations or with our contractual commitments, as well as maintain reliable information technology systems and appropriate controls with respect to privacy and security requirements, we may suffer regulatory consequences that could be costly or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, any actual or perceived failure on the part of one of our equity affiliates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and prospects. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect us. We operate in the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions and are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and of many non-U.S. jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative measures may be enacted that could adversely our overall tax positions regarding income or other taxes, our effective tax rate or tax payments. For example, in the third quarter of 2021, both the United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives passed $3.5 trillion budget resolutions as a first step to the budget reconciliation process that could include U.S. corporate and international tax reforms. As part of the reconciliation process, the House Ways and Means Committee marked up a version of the “Build Back Better Act”. The Build Back Better Act included U.S. corporate and international tax reform proposals that would increase the U.S. corporate income tax rate, modify the Global Intangible Low Taxed Income rules, create additional interest deduction limitations and provide clean energy incentives, among others. The Company believes it would benefit from the clean energy initiatives, though the tax implications may be unfavorable in the short term. As of the filing date, the Build Back Better Act had not been voted on in the United States Senate. With respect to international tax reform, in the third quarter of 2021,132 member countries of the OECD “Inclusive Framework” group released a statement announcing a coordinated framework that would reallocate taxing rights over the profits of multinational corporations and establish a global minimum tax at a 15% rate. On December 20, 2021 the OECD released a set of Model Rules related to the so-called Pillar 2 global minimum tax known as the Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE). On December 22, 2021, the European Commission proposed a draft Directive establishing a global minimum level of taxation. The proposal, if approved by all 27 EU Member States, would require each Member State to transpose the Directive into their respective national laws by December 31, 2022 for the Income Inclusion Rule to come into effect as of January 1, 2023 and the Under Taxed Payments Rule to come into effect January 1, 2024. The Subject to Tax Rule was excluded from the draft Directive. These Rules, collectively, comprise the main facets of the GloBE. The potential impact to the Company is not known, but may be material. Implementation of the framework would require multilateral agreement and/or country specific legislative action, including in the U.S. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and Financial Condition We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $19 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. All outstanding borrowings under The AES Corporation's revolving credit facility are unsecured. Most of the debt of The AES Corporation's subsidiaries, however, is secured by substantially all of the assets of those subsidiaries. A substantial portion of cash flow from operations must be used to make payments on our debt. Furthermore, since a significant percentage of our assets are used to secure this debt, this reduces the amount of collateral available for future secured debt or credit support and reduces our flexibility in operating these secured assets. This level of indebtedness and related security could have other consequences, including: • making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse industry and economic conditions, including adverse changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices; • reducing available cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and • limiting, along with financial and other restrictive covenants relating to such indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, limit, but do not prohibit the incurrence of additional indebtedness. If we were to become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements may be greater than expected and our cash flows may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due. In that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, raise equity or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms to refinance our debt as it becomes due. In addition, our ability to refinance existing or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. Any refinancing of our debt could result in higher interest rates or more onerous covenants that restrict our business operations. See Note 11 — included in Item 8. — for a schedule of our debt maturities. The AES Corporation's ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness is dependent upon the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries. The AES Corporation is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Almost all of The AES Corporation's cash flow is generated by the operating activities of its subsidiaries. Therefore, The AES Corporation's ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund its other obligations is dependent not only on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate cash, but also on the ability of the subsidiaries to distribute cash to it in the form of dividends, fees, interest, tax sharing payments, loans or otherwise.Our subsidiaries face various restrictions in their ability to distribute cash. Most of the subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to loan agreements, indentures or non-recourse financing arrangements, to satisfy certain restricted payment covenants or other conditions before they may make distributions. Business performance and local accounting and tax rules may also limit dividend distributions. Subsidiaries in foreign countries may also be prevented from distributing funds as a result of foreign governments restricting the repatriation of funds or the conversion of currencies. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, unless they have expressly guaranteed The AES Corporation's indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to such debt or to make any funds available whether by dividends, fees, loans or other payments. Existing and potential future defaults by subsidiaries or affiliates could adversely affect us. We attempt to finance our domestic and foreign projects through non-recourse debt or "non-recourse financing" that requires the loans to be repaid solely from the project's revenues and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts and cash flow of that project subsidiary or affiliate. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $19 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $3.8 billion was recourse debt of the Parent Company and approximately $14.8 billion was non-recourse debt. In some non-recourse financings, the Parent Company has explicitly agreed, in the form of guarantees, indemnities, letters of credit, letter of credit reimbursement agreements and agreements to pay, to undertake certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities, most of which will only be effective or will be terminated upon the occurrence of future events. Certain of our subsidiaries are in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in our Consolidated Balance Sheets related to such defaults was $237 million as of December 31, 2021. While the lenders under our non-recourse financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, such defaults under non-recourse financings can: • reduce the Parent Company's receipt of subsidiary dividends, fees, interest payments, loans and other sources of cash because a subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the Parent Company during the pendency of any default; • trigger The AES Corporation's obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; • trigger defaults in the Parent Company's outstanding debt. For example, The AES Corporation's revolving credit facility and outstanding senior notes include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries and relating to accelerations of outstanding material debt of material subsidiaries or any subsidiaries that in the aggregate constitute a material subsidiary; or • result in foreclosure on the assets that are pledged under the non-recourse financings, resulting in write-downs of assets and eliminating any and all potential future benefits derived from those assets. None of the projects that are in default are owned by subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, meet the applicable standard of materiality in The AES Corporation's revolving credit facility or other debt agreements to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of future mix of distributions, write-down of assets, dispositions and other changes to our financial position and results of operations, one or more of these subsidiaries, individually or in the aggregate, could fall within the applicable standard of materiality and thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiary's debt, trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of Parent Company indebtedness. The AES Corporation has significant cash requirements and limited sources of liquidity. The AES Corporation requires cash primarily to fund: principal repayments of debt, interest, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions, construction and other project commitments, other equity commitments (including business development investments); equity repurchases; taxes and Parent Company overhead costs. Our principal sources of liquidity are: dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, proceeds from financings at the Parent Company, and proceeds from asset sales. See Item 7.— . We believe that these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations for the foreseeable future, based on a number of material assumptions about access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, our ability to sell assets, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions; however, there can be no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay our debt obligations at maturity and we may have to refinance such obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such refinancing on acceptable terms. Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to raise capital on favorable terms. We rely on the capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our ability to arrange for financing on either a recourse or non-recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: general economic and capital market conditions; the availability of bank credit; the availability of tax equity partners; the financial condition, performance and prospects of AES as well as our competitors; and changes in tax and securities laws. Should access to capital not be available to us, we may have to sell assets or cease further investments, including the expansion or improvement of existing facilities, any of which would affect our future growth. A downgrade in the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect our access to the capital markets, interest expense, liquidity or cash flow. If any of the credit ratings of the The AES Corporation and its subsidiaries were to be downgraded, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be impaired and our borrowing costs could increase. Furthermore, counterparties may no longer be willing to accept general unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support. Accordingly, we may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit and/or collateral, to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES Corporation, which reduces our available credit. There can be no assurance that counterparties will accept such guarantees or other assurances. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price and trading volumes of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to factors including general economic conditions, conditions in our industry and our markets, environmental and economic developments, and general credit and capital markets conditions, as well as developments specific to us, including risks described in this section, failing to meet our publicly announced guidance or key trends and other matters described in Item 7.— .

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Executive Summary In 2021, AES delivered on its strategic and financial objectives. We completed construction or the acquisition of 2.1 GW of renewables generation and signed long-term PPAs for an additional 5 GW of new renewables. Fluence completed its IPO and began trading in November 2021. See Overview of our Strategy included in Item 1.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Compared with last year, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations decreased $0.68, from $0.06 to a loss of $0.62. This decrease reflects the loss on deconsolidation of Alto Maipo in the current period, higher current year impairments, and lower contributions from Brazil due to the prior year revision of the GSF liability and drier hydrology; partially offset by higher margins at our US and Utilities SBU including new renewables, Southland Energy, and Southland, lower Parent Company interest expense due to realized gains on de-designated interest rate swaps and lower interest rates, gains on Fluence capital raisings, a gain on remeasurement of our interest in sPower's development platform, and lower income tax expense. Adjusted EPS, a non-GAAP measure, increased $0.08, from $1.44 to $1.52, mainly reflecting higher contributions from our US and Utilities SBU, including new renewables and Southland Energy, higher generation at Chivor due to the life extension project completed in the prior year and better hydrology, and lower Parent Company interest expense due to realized gains on de-designated interest rate swaps and lower interest rates; partially offset by a higher adjusted tax rate, lower contributions from Brazil due to the prior year revision of the GSF liability and drier hydrology, the prior year impacts of a gain on sale of land in the U.S., incremental capitalized interest in Chile, and recovery of previously expensed payments from customers in Chile; and the impact of the inclusion of shares underlying the purchase contract component of our March 2021 equity units issuance. Review of Consolidated Results of Operations Components of Revenue, Cost of Sales and Operating Margin — Revenue includes revenue earned from the sale of energy from our utilities and the production and sale of energy from our generation plants, which are classified as regulated and non-regulated, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Revenue also includes the gains or losses on derivatives associated with the sale of electricity. Cost of sales includes costs incurred directly by the businesses in the ordinary course of business. Examples include electricity and fuel purchases, operations and maintenance costs, depreciation and amortization expenses, bad debt expense and recoveries, and general administrative and support costs (including employee-related costs directly associated with the operations of the business). Cost of sales also includes the gains or losses on derivatives (including embedded derivatives other than foreign currency embedded derivatives) associated with the purchase of electricity or fuel. Operating margin is defined as revenue less cost of sales. Consolidated Revenue and Operating Margin Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 Revenue (in millions) Consolidated Revenue — Revenue increased $1.5 billion, or 15%, in 2021 compared to 2020, driven by: • $417 million in US and Utilities driven by higher sales at Southland Energy primarily due to the CCGT units operating under active PPAs during the full 2021 period; higher demand in El Salvador due to the economic recovery from the COVID-19 impact; higher fuel revenues and higher demand from favorable weather at AES Indiana; increases in capacity sales and in realized gains resulting from the commercial hedging strategy at Southland; and higher sales at AES Clean Energy due to the supply agreement with Google; partially offset by decreased capacity at DPL due to its exit from the generation business; • $391 million in MCAC driven by higher contract sales, fuel prices, and LNG sales, driven by the Eastern Pipeline COD in 2020, in the Dominican Republic; higher pass-through fuel prices in Mexico; and higher energy prices and contract sales due to increased demand in Panama; partially offset by the impact from the sale of Itabo in April 2021; • $382 million in South America primarily driven by the revenue recognized at Angamos for the early termination of contracts with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence; higher generation and prices (Resolution 440/2021) in Argentina; higher availability, from higher reservoir levels, in Colombia; and higher volume and generation at AES Brasil, partially due to the acquisition of the Ventus and Cubico wind complexes; partially offset by unfavorable FX impact and by the prior period recovery of previously expensed payments from customers in Chile; and • $295 million in Eurasia mainly driven by higher energy prices and generation in Bulgaria and higher generation in Vietnam. Operating Margin (in millions) Consolidated Operating Margin — Operating margin increased $18 million, or 1%, in 2021 compared to 2020, driven by: • $154 million in US and Utilities primarily from higher sales at Southland Energy due to the CCGT units operating under active PPAs during the full 2021 period; increases in capacity sales and in realized gains resulting from the commercial hedging strategy at Southland; and higher demand in El Salvador due to the economic recovery from the COVID-19 impact; partially offset by increased costs associated with growing and accelerating the development pipeline at AES Clean Energy and by higher maintenance expenses at AES Indiana; • $46 million at Corporate and Other, mainly eliminated at consolidated level, driven by increases in IT costs reallocated to the operating segments and premiums earned by the AES self-insurance company; and • $30 million in Eurasia mainly driven by higher energy prices and generation in Bulgaria and improved operational performance in Vietnam. These favorable impacts were partially offset by a decrease of: • $174 million in South America primarily due to unfavorable FX impact; higher energy purchases due to drier hydrology and a prior period GSF settlement at Tietê; and higher spot prices on energy prices and prior period recovery of previously expensed payments from customers in Chile; partially offset by revenue recognized at Angamos for the early termination of contracts with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence; higher generation and prices (Resolution 440/2021) in Argentina; lower fixed costs in Chile; and higher availability, from higher reservoir levels, in Colombia; and • $38 million in MCAC mainly driven by the impact from the sale of Itabo in April 2021; decreased capacity and higher fixed costs in the Dominican Republic; decreased availability and higher fixed costs in Mexico; and higher fuel costs, drier hydrology, and the disconnection of the Estrella del Mar I power barge in the prior year in Panama; partially offset by higher LNG sales in the Dominican Republic driven by the Eastern Pipeline COD in 2020 and higher demand and positive impact from new renewables businesses in Panama. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 Revenue (in millions) Consolidated Revenue — Revenue decreased $529 million, or 5%, in 2020 compared to 2019, driven by: • $219 million in Eurasia driven by the sale of the Northern Ireland businesses in June 2019 and lower generation in Vietnam; • $140 million in US and Utilities mainly driven by a decrease in energy pass-through rates and lower demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic in El Salvador, lower regulated rates as a result of the changes in AES Ohio's ESP, lower retail sales demand at AES Indiana and DPL primarily due to milder weather and COVID-19 pandemic impacts, and decreased capacity sales, at Southland due to unit retirements, and at DPL due to the sale and closure of generation facilities. These decreases were partially offset by increased capacity sales at Southland Energy due to the commencement of the PPAs; • $116 million in MCAC mainly driven by lower generation and volume pass-through fuel revenue in Mexico, the disconnection of the Estrella del Mar I power barge from the grid in Panama, and lower market prices, spot sales and demand in both the Dominican Republic and at the Colon combined cycle facility in Panama. These decreases were partially offset by higher LNG sales in the Dominican Republic, driven by the Eastern Pipeline COD in 2020; and • $49 million in South America driven by unfavorable FX impact, drier hydrology and lower generation in Colombia due to a life extension project being performed at the Chivor hydro plant, lower pass-through coal prices, spot prices, and lower generation in Chile, and lower energy and capacity prices (Resolution 31/2020) in Argentina, partially offset by revenue recognized at Angamos for the early termination of contracts with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence and recovery of previously expensed payments from customers in Chile. Operating Margin (in millions) Consolidated Operating Margin — Operating margin increased $344 million, or 15%, in 2020 compared to 2019, driven by: • $370 million in South America primarily due to the drivers discussed above, as well as a $184 million favorable revision to the GSF liability at Tietê related to the passage of a regulation providing concession extensions to hydro plants as compensation for prior period non-hydrological risk charges incorrectly assessed by the regulator; and • $72 million in MCAC mostly due to higher availability at Changuinola due to the tunnel lining upgrade in 2019, improved hydrology in Panama, and higher LNG sales in the Dominican Republic, partially offset by prior year insurance recoveries associated with the lightning incident at the Andres facility in 2018, current year outage due to Andres steam turbine failure, and the disconnection of the Estrella del Mar I power barge from the grid in Panama. These favorable impacts were partially offset by a decrease of $116 million in US and Utilities mostly due to lower regulated rates as a result of the changes in AES Ohio's ESP, lower retail sales demand at DPL and AES Indiana primarily due to milder weather and COVID-19 pandemic impacts, lower capacity sales due to the retirement of units at Southland, a favorable revision to the ARO at DPL, and cost recoveries from DPL's joint owners of Stuart and Killen in 2019, partially offset by increased capacity sales at Southland Energy due to the commencement of the PPAs, and lower depreciation expense at Southland due to the extension of the water board permits. See Item 7. — of this Form 10-K for additional discussion and analysis of operating results for each SBU. Consolidated Results of Operations — Other General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses include expenses related to corporate staff functions and initiatives, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, and information systems, as well as global development costs. General and administrative expenses increased $1 million, or 1%, to $166 million for 2021 compared to $165 million for 2020, with no material drivers. General and administrative expenses decreased $31 million, or 16%, to $165 million for 2020 compared to $196 million for 2019, primarily due to a higher reallocation of information technology costs to the SBUs and lower professional fees, partially offset by higher development costs. Interest expense Interest expense decreased $127 million, or 12%, to $911 million for 2021, compared to $1,038 million for 2020 primarily due to realized gains on de-designated interest rate swaps, lower interest rates related to refinancing at the Parent Company and lower monetary correction due to the GSF settlement in March 2021. Interest expense decreased $12 million, or 1%, to $1,038 million for 2020, compared to $1,050 million for 2019 primarily due to incremental capitalized interest in Chile and lower interest rates due to refinancing at the Parent Company, partially offset by lower capitalized interest due to the commencement of operations at the Alamitos and Huntington Beach facilities in February 2020. Interest income Interest income increased $30 million, or 11%, to $298 million for 2021, compared to $268 million for 2020 primarily due to the arbitration proceeding in Chile, the commencement of a sales-type lease at the AES Energy Storage Alamitos project in January 2021, and higher CAMMESA interest rates on receivables in Argentina, partially offset by a lower loan receivable balance in Vietnam. Interest income decreased $50 million, or 16%, to $268 million for 2020, compared to $318 million for 2019 primarily due to the decrease of the LIBOR rate on receivables in Argentina, a lower loan receivable balance at Mong Duong, and a lower average interest rate at AES Brasil. Loss on extinguishment of debt Loss on extinguishment of debt decreased $108 million, or 58%, to $78 million for 2021, compared to $186 million for 2020. This decrease was primarily due to prior year losses of $145 million and $ 34 million at the Parent Company and DPL, respectively, resulting from the redemption of senior notes and a $ 16 million loss resulting from the Panama refinancing. These decreases were partially offset in 2021 by a loss of $27 million due to the prepayment at AES Brasil, losses at Argentina and AES Andes of $17 million and $14 million, respectively, due to repayments, and a refinancing resulting in a loss at Andres of $14 million. Loss on extinguishment of debt increased $17 million, or 10% to $186 million for 2020, compared to $169 million for 2019. This increase was primarily due to the increases mentioned above partially offset by losses of $45 million at DPL, $31 million at Mong Duong, $29 million at AES Andes, $28 million at Colon, and $24 million at Cochrane in 2019 resulting from the redemption or refinancing of senior notes. See Note 11— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Other income Other income increased $335 million to $410 million for 2021, compared to $75 million for 2020 primarily due to the current year gain on remeasurement of our equity interest in the sPower development platform to its acquisition-date fair value, recognized as part of the merger to form AES Clean Energy Development, legal arbitration at Alto Maipo, and the gain on remeasurement of contingent consideration of the Great Cove Solar acquisition at Clean Energy, partially offset by the prior year gain on sale of Redondo Beach land at Southland. Other income decreased $70 million, or 48% to $75 million for 2020, compared to $145 million for 2019 primarily due to 2019 gains on insurance recoveries associated with property damage at the Andres facility and upgrading the tunnel lining at Changuinola, partially offset by the 2020 gain on sale of Redondo Beach land at Southland. Other expense Other expense increased $7 million, or 13%, to $60 million for 2021, compared to $53 million for 2020 primarily due to a current year loss recognized at commencement of a sales-type lease at AES Renewable Holdings and an increase in loss on sale and disposal of assets, partially offset by lower losses on sales of Stabilization Fund receivables in Chile and compliance with an arbitration decision in 2020. Other expense decreased $27 million, or 34% to $53 million for 2020, compared to $80 million for 2019 primarily due to 2019 losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases at AES Renewable Holdings, the 2019 loss on disposal of assets at Changuinola associated with upgrading the tunnel lining, and lower defined benefit plan costs at AES Indiana in 2020, partially offset by a loss on sale of Stabilization Fund receivables in Chile and compliance with an arbitration decision in 2020. See Note 21— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Gain (loss) on disposal and sale of business interests Loss on disposal and sale of business interests increased $1,588 million to $1,683 million for 2021, compared to $95 million for 2020, primarily due to the $2,074 million loss on the deconsolidation of Alto Maipo, partially offset by the issuance of new shares by Fluence, our equity method investment, to new investors, which AES has accounted for as a gain on the partial disposition of its investment in Fluence, and the gain on the sale of Guacolda. Loss on disposal and sale of business interests was $95 million for 2020, primarily due to the loss on sale of Uruguaiana and the loss on the settlement of the arbitration related to the sale of Kazakhstan HPPs, partially offset by the gain on sale of OPGC; as compared to a gain of $28 million for 2019, primarily due to the gain on sale of a portion of our interest in sPower's operating assets, the gain on the merger of Simple Energy to form Uplight, and the gain on transfer of Stuart and Killen, partially offset by the loss on sale of Kilroot and Ballylumford. See Note 24— and Note — included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Asset impairment expense Asset impairment expense increased $711 million to $1,575 million for 2021, compared to $864 million for 2020. This increase was primarily due to impairments of $649 million and $155 million related to AES Andes’ commitment to accelerate the retirement of the Ventanas 3 & 4 and Angamos coal-fired plants, respectively, a $475 million impairment at Puerto Rico associated with the economic costs and reputational risks of disposal of coal combustion residuals off island, impairments of $29 million, $73 million, and $91 million at Buffalo Gap I, II, and III wind generation facilities, respectively, due to an expired PPA and volatile spot prices in the ERCOT market, and a $67 million impairment at the Mountain View I & II wind facilities related to a repowering project that will result in decommissioning the majority of the existing wind turbines in advance of their depreciable lives. The increase was partially offset by the $564 million and $213 million impairments related to the Angamos and Ventanas 1 & 2 coal-fired plants in Chile in the prior year and the $38 million impairment of the generation facility in Hawaii during 2020. Asset impairment expense increased $679 million to $864 million for 2020, compared to $185 million for 2019. This increase was primarily driven by a $781 million impairment related to certain coal-fired plants at AES Andes and a $30 million impairment of the Estrella del Mar I power barge in Panama, compared to a $115 million impairment at Kilroot and Ballylumford upon meeting the held-for-sale criteria in 2019. See Note 22— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) in millions were as follows: _____________________________ (1) Primarily associated with the peso-denominated energy receivable indexed to the USD through the FONINVEMEM agreement which is considered a foreign currency derivative. See Note 7— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. (2) Includes gains of $12 million and $57 million, and losses of $31 million on foreign currency derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. The Company recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily driven by the depreciation of the Argentine peso, unrealized losses on foreign currency derivatives related to government receivables in Argentina, and unrealized losses at the Parent Company resulting from the depreciation of intercompany receivables denominated in Euro, partially offset by unrealized derivative gains on foreign currency derivatives due to the depreciating Colombian peso. The Company recognized net foreign currency transaction gains of $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily driven by realized and unrealized gains on foreign currency derivatives related to government receivables in Argentina and unrealized gains at the Parent Company resulting from the appreciation of intercompany receivables denominated in Euro. The Company recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily driven by unrealized losses on foreign currency derivatives related to government receivables in Argentina and unrealized losses associated with the devaluation of long-term receivables denominated in the Argentine peso. Other non-operating expense Other non-operating expense was $202 million and $92 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, due to the other-than-temporary impairment of the OPGC equity method investment. In December 2019, an other-than-temporary impairment of $92 million was identified at OPGC primarily due to the estimated market value of the Company's investment and other negative developments impacting future expected cash flows at the investee. In March 2020, the Company recognized an additional $43 million other-than-temporary impairment due to the economic slowdown. In June 2020, the Company agreed to sell its entire stake in the OPGC investment, resulting in an other-than-temporary impairment of $158 million. There were no other non-operating expenses during the year ended December 31, 2021. See Note 8— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Income tax benefit (expense) Income tax benefit was $133 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, compared to income tax expense of $216 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. The Company's effective tax rates were 13% and 44% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The net change in the 2021 effective tax rate was primarily due to the 2021 impacts of the deconsolidation of Alto Maipo and the asset impairment at Puerto Rico. These impacts were partially offset by the income tax benefit related to effective settlement resulting from the exam closure of the Company’s U.S. 2017 tax return. Additionally offsetting the aforementioned impacts was the benefit associated with the release of valuation allowance due to a change in expected realizability of net operating loss carryforwards at one of our Brazilian subsidiaries. The 2020 effective tax rate was impacted by the other-than-temporary impairment of the OPGC equity method investment and the loss on sale of the Company’s entire interest in AES Uruguaiana, partially offset by the recognition of a federal ITC for the Na Pua Makani wind facility in Hawaii. See Note 22— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for details of the asset impairment. See Note 24— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for details of the sale of the Company's entire interest of AES Uruguaiana and the deconsolidation of Alto Maipo. Income tax expense decreased $136 million to $216 million in 2020 as compared to $352 million for 2019. The Company's effective tax rates were 44% and 35% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. The net increase in the 2020 effective tax rate was primarily due to the 2020 impacts of the drivers cited above. Further, the 2019 rate was impacted by the nondeductible losses on the sale of the Company's entire 100% interest in the Kilroot coal and oil-fired plant and energy storage facility and the Ballylumford gas-fired plant in the United Kingdom and associated asset impairments. Further impacting the 2019 effective tax rate were the effects of the Argentine peso devaluation to tax expense, as well as to pretax income for nondeductible unrealized losses on foreign currency derivatives related to government receivables in Argentina. See Note 24— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for details of the sales. Our effective tax rate reflects the tax effect of significant operations outside the U.S., which are generally taxed at rates different than the U.S. statutory rate. Foreign earnings may be taxed at rates higher than the U.S. corporate rate of 21% and are also subject to current U.S. taxation under the GILTI rules introduced by the TCJA. A future proportionate change in the composition of income before income taxes from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions could impact our periodic effective tax rate. The Company also benefits from reduced tax rates in certain countries as a result of satisfying specific commitments regarding employment and capital investment. See Note 23— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these reduced rates. Net equity in losses of affiliates Net equity in losses of affiliates decreased $99 million, or 80%, to $24 million in 2021, compared to $123 million in 2020. This was primarily driven by earnings at sPower in 2021 of $79 million, compared to losses in the prior year, driven by renewable projects that came online and prior year impairments of certain development projects, and $81 million of losses at AES Andes in 2020 mainly due to a long-lived asset impairment and the suspension of equity method accounting at Guacolda. This decrease in losses was partially offset by an increase in losses at Fluence of $45 million due to shipping issues, cost overruns and delays at projects under construction, and an increase in costs associated with the growing business, as well as an increase in losses at Uplight of $10 million due to higher costs associated with the growing business. Net equity in losses of affiliates decreased $49 million, or 28%, to $123 million in 2020, compared to $172 million in 2019. This was primarily driven by a $31 million increase in earnings due to lower long-lived asset impairments at Guacolda, AES Andes' 50%-owned equity affiliate, during 2020 as compared to 2019. See Note 8— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable stock of subsidiaries Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable stock of subsidiaries decreased $648 million to a loss of $542 million in 2021, compared to income of $106 million in 2020. This decrease was primarily due to: • Loss on deconsolidation of Alto Maipo due to loss of control after Chapter 11 filing; • Asset impairments at Buffalo Gap; • Increased costs associated with growing and accelerating the U.S. renewables development pipeline; • Lower earnings in Brazil due to the prior year favorable revision of the GSF liability; and • Lower earnings in the Dominican Republic due to the sale of Itabo in the second quarter. These decreases were partially offset by: • Allocation of earnings at Southland Energy to noncontrolling interests; • Higher earnings in Panama primarily due to the prior year asset impairment and loss on extinguishment of debt; and • Higher earnings in Colombia due to the life extension project at the Chivor hydroelectric plant completed in the prior year and better hydrology. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable stock of subsidiaries decreased $69 million, or 39%, to $106 million in 2020, compared to $175 million in 2019. This decrease was primarily due to: • Lower earnings in Chile due to long-lived asset impairments at AES Andes, partially offset by net gains from early contract terminations at Angamos and lower interest expense due to incremental capitalized interest; • Lower earnings in Colombia due to drier hydrology and a life extension project at the Chivor hydroelectric plant; • Prior year insurance recoveries net of outages at Andres; and • HLBV allocation of losses to noncontrolling interests at AES Renewable Holdings. These decreases were partially offset by: • Higher earnings in Brazil due to the favorable revision of the GSF liability; and • Prior year losses on extinguishment of debt at Mong Duong and Colon. Net income attributable to The AES Corporation Net income attributable to The AES Corporation decreased $455 million to a loss of $409 million in 2021, compared to income of $46 million in 2020. This decrease was primarily due to: • Loss on deconsolidation of Alto Maipo due to loss of control after Chapter 11 filing; • Higher asset impairments in the current year; and • Lower margins at our South America SBU primarily due to the prior year revision of the GSF liability at Brazil. These decreases were partially offset by: • Gain due to the initial public offering of Fluence; • Gain on remeasurement of our equity interest in the sPower development platform to acquisition-date fair value; • Prior year other-than-temporary impairment of OPGC; • Lower Parent interest expense due to realized gains on de-designated interest rate swaps and lower interest rates; • Prior year losses on extinguishment of debt at the Parent and DPL; • Higher margins at our US and Utilities SBU primarily due to favorable price variances under the commercial hedging strategy at Southland and at Southland Energy mainly due to the CCGT units operating under active PPAs during the full 2021 period; and • Lower income tax expense. Net income attributable to The AES Corporation decreased $257 million, or 85% to $46 million in 2020, compared to $303 million in 2019. This decrease was primarily due to: • Long-lived asset impairments at AES Andes and Panama; • Net impact of current and prior year other-than-temporary impairments of OPGC; • Higher losses on extinguishment of debt in the current year, primarily due to major refinancings at the Parent Company; • Lower margins at our US and Utilities SBU; • Losses on sale of Uruguaiana and the Kazakhstan HPPs as a result of the final arbitration decision; and • Prior year net insurance recoveries at Andres. These decreases were partially offset by: • Prior year long-lived asset impairments at Kilroot and Ballylumford; • Net impact of current and prior year long-lived asset impairments at Guacolda; • Prior year unrealized losses on foreign currency derivatives related to government receivables in Argentina; • Higher margins at our South America and MCAC SBUs; • Lower income tax expense; • Lower interest expense due to incremental capitalized interest in Chile; and • Gain on sale of land held by AES Redondo Beach at Southland. SBU Performance Analysis Segments We are organized into four market-oriented SBUs: US and Utilities (United States, Puerto Rico and El Salvador); South America (Chile, Colombia, Argentina and Brazil); MCAC (Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean); and Eurasia (Europe and Asia). Non-GAAP Measures Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted PTC and Adjusted EPS are non-GAAP supplemental measures that are used by management and external users of our Consolidated Financial Statements such as investors, industry analysts and lenders. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company updated the definition of Adjusted EPS item (g) tax benefit or expense related to the enactment effects of 2017 U.S. tax law reform and related regulations and any subsequent period adjustments related to enactment effects to include the 2021 tax benefit on reversal of uncertain tax positions effectively settled upon the closure of the Company's 2017 U.S. tax return exam. Effective January 1, 2021, the Company changed the definitions of Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted PTC, and Adjusted EPS to remove the adjustment for costs directly associated with a major restructuring program, including, but not limited to, workforce reduction efforts, relocations, and office consolidation. As this adjustment was specific to the major restructuring program announced by the Company in 2018, we believe removing this adjustment from our non-GAAP definitions provides simplification and clarity for our investors. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company changed the definitions of Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted PTC and Adjusted EPS to exclude net gains at Angamos, one of our businesses in the South America SBU, associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence. We believe the inclusion of the effects of this non-recurring transaction would result in a lack of comparability in our results of operations and would distort the metrics that our investors use to measure us. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company changed the definitions of Adjusted PTC and Adjusted EPS to exclude gains and losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases. We believe these transactions are economically similar to sales of business interests and excluding these gains or losses better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company. Adjusted Operating Margin We define Adjusted Operating Margin as Operating Margin, adjusted for the impact of NCI, excluding (a) unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions; (b) benefits and costs associated with dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, including early plant closures; and (c) net gains at Angamos, one of our businesses in the South America SBU, associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence. The allocation of HLBV earnings to noncontrolling interests is not adjusted out of Adjusted Operating Margin. See Review of Consolidated Results of Operations for definitions of Operating Margin and cost of sales. The GAAP measure most comparable to Adjusted Operating Margin is Operating Margin . We believe that Adjusted Operating Margin better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company. Factors in this determination include the impact of NCI, where AES consolidates the results of a subsidiary that is not wholly owned by the Company, as well as the variability due to unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions and strategic decisions to dispose of or acquire business interests. Adjusted Operating Margin should not be construed as an alternative to Operating Margin, which is determined in accordance with GAAP. _____________________________ (1) The allocation of HLBV earnings to noncontrolling interests is not adjusted out of Adjusted Operating Margin. Adjusted PTC We define Adjusted PTC as pre-tax income from continuing operations attributable to The AES Corporation excluding gains or losses of the consolidated entity due to (a) unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions and equity securities; (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses; (c) gains, losses, benefits and costs associated with dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, including early plant closures, and gains and losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases; (d) losses due to impairments; (e) gains, losses and costs due to the early retirement of debt; and (f) net gains at Angamos, one of our businesses in the South America SBU, associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence. Adjusted PTC also includes net equity in earnings of affiliates on an after-tax basis adjusted for the same gains or losses excluded from consolidated entities. Adjusted PTC reflects the impact of NCI and excludes the items specified in the definition above. In addition to the revenue and cost of sales reflected in Operating Margin, Adjusted PTC includes the other components of our Consolidated Statement of Operations, such as general and administrative expenses in the Corporate segment, as well as business development costs, interest expense and interest income, other expense and other income, realized foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and net equity in earnings of affiliates . The GAAP measure most comparable to Adjusted PTC is income from continuing operations attributable to The AES Corporation . We believe that Adjusted PTC better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company and is the most relevant measure considered in the Company's internal evaluation of the financial performance of its segments. Factors in this determination include the variability due to unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions or equity securities remeasurement, unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, losses due to impairments, strategic decisions to dispose of or acquire business interests or retire debt, and the non-recurring nature of the impact of the early contract terminations at Angamos, which affect results in a given period or periods. In addition, Adjusted PTC represents the business performance of the Company before the application of statutory income tax rates and tax adjustments, including the effects of tax planning, corresponding to the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Given its large number of businesses and complexity, the Company concluded that Adjusted PTC is a more transparent measure that better assists investors in determining which businesses have the greatest impact on the Company's results. Adjusted PTC should not be construed as an alternative to income from continuing operations attributable to The AES Corporation , which is determined in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EPS We define Adjusted EPS as diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding gains or losses of both consolidated entities and entities accounted for under the equity method due to (a) unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions and equity securities; (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses; (c) gains, losses, benefits and costs associated with dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, including early plant closures, the tax impact from the repatriation of sales proceeds, and gains and losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases; (d) losses due to impairments; (e) gains, losses and costs due to the early retirement of debt; (f) net gains at Angamos, one of our businesses in the South America SBU, associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence; and (g) tax benefit or expense related to the enactment effects of 2017 U.S. tax law reform and related regulations and any subsequent period adjustments related to enactment effects, including the 2021 tax benefit on reversal of uncertain tax positions effectively settled upon the closure of the Company's U.S. tax return exam. The GAAP measure most comparable to Adjusted EPS is diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. We believe that Adjusted EPS better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company and is considered in the Company's internal evaluation of financial performance. Factors in this determination include the variability due to unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions or equity securities remeasurement, unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, losses due to impairments, strategic decisions to dispose of or acquire business interests or retire debt, the one-time impact of the 2017 U.S. tax law reform and subsequent period adjustments related to enactment effects, and the non-recurring nature of the impact of the early contract terminations at Angamos, which affect results in a given period or periods. Adjusted EPS should not be construed as an alternative to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, which is determined in accordance with GAAP. The Company reported a loss from continuing operations of $0.62 for the year ended December 31, 2021. For purposes of measuring diluted loss per share under GAAP, common stock equivalents were excluded from weighted average shares as their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. However, for purposes of computing Adjusted EPS, the Company has included the impact of dilutive common stock equivalents. The table below reconciles the weighted average shares used in GAAP diluted loss per share to the weighted average shares used in calculating the non-GAAP measure of Adjusted EPS. _____________________________ (1) Amount primarily relates to unrealized derivative losses in Argentina of $89 million, or $0.13 per share, mainly associated with foreign currency derivatives on government receivables. (2) Amount primarily relates to unrealized FX losses in Argentina of $25 million, or $0.04 per share, mainly associated with the devaluation of long-term receivables denominated in Argentine pesos, and unrealized FX losses at the Parent Company of $12 million, or $0.02 per share, mainly associated with intercompany receivables denominated in Euro. (3) Amount primarily relates to loss on deconsolidation of Alto Maipo of $1.5 billion, or $2.09 per share, loss on Uplight transaction with shareholders of $25 million, or $0.04 per share, and a day-one loss recognized at commencement of a sales-type lease at AES Renewable Holdings of $13 million, or $0.02 per share, partially offset by gain on initial public offering of Fluence of $325 million, or $0.46 per share, gain on remeasurement of our equity interest in sPower to acquisition-date fair value of $249 million, or $0.35 per share, gain on Fluence issuance of shares of $60 million, or $0.09 per share, and gain on sale of Guacolda of $22 million, or $0.03 per share. (4) Amount primarily relates to loss on sale of Uruguaiana of $85 million, or $0.13 per share, loss on sale of the Kazakhstan HPPs of $30 million, or $0.05 per share, as a result of the final arbitration decision, and advisor fees associated with the successful acquisition of additional ownership interest in AES Brasil of $9 million, or $0.01 per share; partially offset by gain on sale of OPGC of $23 million, or $0.03 per share. (5) Amount primarily relates to losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases at AES Renewable Holdings of $36 million, or $0.05 per share, and loss on sale of Kilroot and Ballylumford of $31 million, or $0.05 per share; partially offset by gain on sale of a portion of our interest in sPower’s operating assets of $28 million, or $0.04 per share, gain on disposal of Stuart and Killen at DPL of $20 million, or $0.03 per share, and gain on sale of ownership interest in Simple Energy as part of the Uplight merger of $12 million, or $0.02 per share. (6) Amount primarily relates to asset impairments at AES Andes of $540 million, or $0.77 per share, at Puerto Rico of $475 million, or $0.68 per share, at Mountain View of $67 million, or $0.10 per share, at our sPower equity affiliate, impacting equity earnings by $24 million, or $0.03 per share, at Buffalo Gap of $22 million, or $0.03 per share, at Clean Energy of $14 million, or $0.02 per share, and at Laurel Mountain of $7 million, or $0.01 per share. (7) Amount primarily relates to asset impairments at AES Andes of $527 million, or $0.79 per share, other-than-temporary impairment of OPGC of $201 million, or $0.30 per share, impairments at our Guacolda and sPower equity affiliates, impacting equity earnings by $85 million, or $0.13 per share, and $57 million, or $0.09 per share, respectively; impairment at AES Hawaii of $38 million, or $0.06 per share, and impairment at Panama of $15 million, or $0.02 per share. (8) Amount primarily relates to asset impairments at Kilroot and Ballylumford of $115 million, or $0.17 per share, and at AES Hawaii of $60 million, or $0.09 per share; impairments at our Guacolda and sPower equity affiliates, impacting equity earnings by $105 million, or $0.16 per share, and $21 million, or $0.03 per share, respectively; and other-than-temporary impairment of OPGC of $92 million, or $0.14 per share. (9) Amount primarily relates to losses on early retirement of debt at AES Brasil of $27 million, or $0.04 per share, at Argentina of $17 million, or $0.02 per share, at AES Andes of $15 million, or $0.02 per share, and at Andres and Los Mina of $15 million, or $0.02 per share. (10) Amount primarily relates to losses on early retirement of debt at the Parent Company of $146 million, or $0.22 per share, DPL of $32 million, or $0.05 per share, Angamos of $17 million, or $0.02 per share, and Panama of $11 million, or $0.02 per share. (11) Amount primarily relates to losses on early retirement of debt at DPL of $45 million, or $0.07 per share, AES Andes of $35 million, or $0.05 per share, Mong Duong of $17 million, or $0.03 per share, and Colon of $14 million, or $0.02 per share. (12) Amounts relate to net gains at Angamos associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence of $256 million, or $0.37 per share, and $182 million, or $0.27 per share, for the periods ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (13) Amount relates to the tax benefit on reversal of uncertain tax positions effectively settled upon the closure of the Company's 2017 U.S. tax return exam of $176 million, or $0.25 per share. (14) Amount represents adjustment to tax law reform remeasurement due to incremental deferred taxes related to DPL of $16 million, or $0.02 per share. (15) Amount primarily relates to income tax benefits associated with the loss on deconsolidation of Alto Maipo of $209 million, or $0.30 per share, income tax benefits associated with the impairments at AES Andes of $146 million, or $0.21 per share, at Puerto Rico of $20 million, or $0.03 per share, and at Mountain View of $15 million, or $0.02 per share, partially offset by income tax expense associated with the gain on initial public offering of Fluence of $73 million, or $0.10 per share, income tax expense related to net gains at Angamos associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence of $69 million, or $0.10 per share, and income tax expense associated with the gain on remeasurement of our equity interest in sPower of $55 million, or $0.08 per share. (16) Amount primarily relates to income tax benefits associated with the impairments at AES Andes and Guacolda of $164 million, or $0.25 per share, and income tax benefits associated with losses on early retirement of debt at the Parent Company of $31 million, or $0.05 per share; partially offset by income tax expense related to net gains at Angamos associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence of $49 million, or $0.07 per share. (17) Amount primarily relates to the income tax benefits associated with the impairments at OPGC of $23 million, or $0.03 per share, Guacolda of $13 million, or $0.02 per share, AES Hawaii of $13 million, or $0.02 per share, and Kilroot and Ballylumford of $11 million, or $0.02 per share, and income tax benefits associated with losses on early retirement of debt of $24 million, or $0.04 per share; partially offset by an adjustment to income tax expense related to 2018 gains on sales of business interests, primarily Masinloc, of $25 million, or $0.04 per share. US and Utilities SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin, Adjusted Operating Margin and Adjusted PTC (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted for the impact of NCI. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. Fiscal year 2021 versus 2020 Operating Margin increased $154 million, or 24%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin increased $40 million primarily due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI, primarily related to the sale of ownership interest in Southland Energy, and unrealized gains and losses on derivatives. Adjusted PTC increased $155 million, primarily driven by the increase in Adjusted Operating Margin described above, an increase at our U.S. renewables businesses due to contributions from newly operational projects, lower interest expenses at Southland Energy attributable to NCI allocation in 2021, non-service pension income at AES Indiana, and lower interest expense at DPL. These increases were partially offset by a gain in 2020 on sale of land held by AES Redondo Beach at Southland. Fiscal year 2020 versus 2019 Operating Margin decreased $116 million, or 15%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin decreased $82 million primarily due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI and excluding unrealized gains and losses on derivatives and costs associated with dispositions of business interests. Adjusted PTC decreased $64 million, primarily driven by the decrease in Adjusted Operating Margin described above and increased interest expense primarily at Southland Energy due to lower capitalized interest following completion of the CCGT units and new debt issuances, partially offset by a gain on sale of land held by AES Redondo Beach at Southland, lower pension expense at AES Indiana, and an increase in allocation of earnings from equity affiliates driven by renewable projects that came online in 2020 at sPower. South America SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin, Adjusted Operating Margin and Adjusted PTC (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted for the impact of NCI. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. AES' indirect beneficial interest in AES Brasil increased from 24.35% to 44.13% in 2020 and to 46.7% in 2021. See Item 1. — . Fiscal year 2021 versus 2020 Operating Margin decreased $174 million, or 14%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin decreased $118 million primarily due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI and net gains on early contract terminations at Angamos. Adjusted PTC decreased $111 million, mainly driven by the decrease in Adjusted Operating Margin described above, incremental capitalized interest at Alto Maipo in the prior period, lower equity earnings at Guacolda due to the suspension of equity method accounting, and higher interest expense in Brazil. These negative variances were partially offset by a favorable award in an arbitration proceeding in Chile and higher interest income in Argentina due to increase in rates and higher sales. Fiscal year 2020 versus 2019 Operating Margin increased $370 million, or 42%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin increased $51 million primarily due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI and the net gains on early contract terminations at Angamos. Adjusted PTC increased $30 million, mainly driven by the increase in Adjusted Operating Margin described above, as well as lower interest expense due to incremental capitalized interest at Alto Maipo. These positive impacts were partially offset by realized FX losses and lower interest income primarily driven by lower interest rates on CAMMESA receivables in Argentina, and higher interest expense in Brazil due to higher inflation rates. MCAC SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin, Adjusted Operating Margin and Adjusted PTC (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted for the impact of NCI. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. Fiscal year 2021 versus 2020 Operating Margin decreased $38 million, or 7%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin increased $4 million primarily due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI. Adjusted PTC increased $27 million, mainly driven by the increase in Adjusted Operating Margin described above, as well as a legal settlement in Panama in 2020 and a current year gain on pension plan buyout in Mexico. Fiscal year 2020 versus 2019 Operating Margin increased $72 million, or 15%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin increased $42 million primarily due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI. Adjusted PTC decreased $80 million, mainly driven by insurance recoveries associated with property damage at Andres and Changuinola in 2019, partially offset by the increase in Adjusted Operating Margin described above. Eurasia SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin, Adjusted Operating Margin and Adjusted PTC (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure, adjusted for the impact of NCI. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. Fiscal year 2021 versus 2020 Operating Margin increased $30 million, or 16%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin increased $20 million due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI. Adjusted PTC increased $19 million driven by the increase in Adjusted Operating Margin described above. Fiscal year 2020 versus 2019 Operating Margin decreased $2 million, or 1%, which was driven primarily by the following (in millions): Adjusted Operating Margin decreased $6 million due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI. Adjusted PTC increased $18 million, primarily driven by lower interest expense due to regular debt repayments in Bulgaria and a positive variance in OPGC equity earnings, partially offset by the decrease in Adjusted Operating Margin discussed above. Key Trends and Uncertainties During 2022 and beyond, we expect to face the following challenges at certain of our businesses. Management expects that improved operating performance at certain businesses, growth from new businesses, and global cost reduction initiatives may lessen or offset their impact. If these favorable effects do not occur, or if the challenges described below and elsewhere in this section impact us more significantly than we currently anticipate, or if volatile foreign currencies and commodities move more unfavorably, then these adverse factors (or other adverse factors unknown to us) may have a material impact on our operating margin, net income attributable to The AES Corporation and cash flows. We continue to monitor our operations and address challenges as they arise. For the risk factors related to our business, see Item 1.— and Item 1A.— of this Form 10-K. Operational COVID-19 Pandemic — The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted global economic activity, including electricity and energy consumption, and caused significant volatility in financial markets intermittently in the last two years. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic we have conducted our essential operations without significant disruption. We derive approximately 85% of our total revenues from our regulated utilities and long-term sales and supply contracts or PPAs at our generation businesses, which contributes to a relatively stable revenue and cost structure at most of our businesses. In 2021, our operational locations continued to experience the impact of, and recovery from, the COVID-19 pandemic. Across our global portfolio, our utilities businesses have generally performed in line with our expectations consistent with a recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. While we cannot predict the length and magnitude of the pandemic, including the impact of current or future variants, or how it could impact global economic conditions, a delayed recovery with respect to demand may adversely impact our financial results for 2022. Also see Item 1A.— of this Form 10-K. We continue to monitor and manage our credit exposures in a prudent manner. Our credit exposures have continued in-line with historical levels and within the customary 45-60 day grace period. We have not experienced material credit-related impacts from our PPA offtakers due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our supply chain management has remained robust during this challenging time and we continue to closely manage and monitor developments. We continue to experience certain minor delays in some of our development projects, primarily in permitting processes and the implementation of interconnections, due to governments and other authorities having limited capacity to perform their functions. Operational Sensitivity to Dry Hydrological Conditions — Our hydroelectric generation facilities are sensitive to changes in the weather, particularly the level of water inflows into generation facilities. While our operations in Panama, Colombia, Brazil, and Chile have experienced challenges arising from dry hydrology from time to time, the current dry hydrological conditions in Brazil have exceeded historical levels. If these hydrological conditions continue to persist, we may need to purchase energy at higher prices to fulfill our contractual arrangements. Trade Restrictions and Supply Chain — In recent years, increased tensions between the U.S. and China have resulted in policies that restrict or increase costs on trade, such as tariffs and import restrictions, that have impacted the renewable energy industry. While we have been able to largely mitigate any material impacts so far, China is the largest supplier of raw materials and components used in solar panels. Imports of solar panels into the U.S. from China and Southeast Asia have been delayed or challenged in certain instances. In addition, substantial shortages in shipping services and disruptions in global supply chain, recent disruptions specific to solar panel imports including the uncertainty around the application of additional tariffs on solar panel imports from Southeast Asia, and the potential detainment of panels by U.S. Customs and Border Protection has further challenged the supply chain related to renewable energy. While we have contracted and substantially secured our expected requirements for U.S. solar panels for 2022, these disruptions may persist and impact our suppliers’ ability or willingness to meet their contractual agreements. AES will continue to monitor developments and take prudent steps towards maintaining a robust supply chain for our renewables projects. Macroeconomic and Political The macroeconomic and political environments in some countries where our subsidiaries conduct business have changed during 2021. This could result in significant impacts to tax laws and environmental and energy policies. Additionally, we operate in multiple countries and as such are subject to volatility in exchange rates at the subsidiary level. See Item 7A.— for further information. Argentina — In the run up to the 2019 Presidential elections, the Argentine peso devalued significantly and the government of Argentina imposed capital controls and announced a restructuring of Argentina’s debt payments. Restrictions on the flow of capital have limited the availability of international credit, and economic conditions in Argentina have further deteriorated, triggering additional devaluation of the Argentine peso and a deterioration of the country’s risk profile. Following the election of Alberto Fernández in October 2019, the administration has been evaluating solutions to the Argentine economic crisis. On February 27, 2020, the Secretariat of Energy passed Resolution No. 31/2020 that includes the denomination of tariffs in local currency indexed by local inflation, and reductions in capacity payments received by generators. These regulatory changes have negatively impacted our financial results. In addition, Argentina restructured its public debt in 2020 through an agreement with its international creditors. Although the situation in Argentina remains challenging, it has not had a material impact on our current exposures to date, and payments on the long-term receivables for the FONINVEMEM Agreements are current. For further information, see Note 7— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. Chile — On December 19, 2021, Gabriel Boric was elected president of Chile with 56 percent of the vote in the second round. Boric will take office on March 11, 2022, after two years of political and social turmoil in Chile driven by massive protests over inequality, leading the country through the process of writing a new constitution. Boric has declared his goal of introducing significant reforms in key areas such as pensions, education, labor, and health services. To mitigate the fiscal impact of these initiatives, Boric also declared his intention to introduce a tax reform to increase mining royalties and increase income, emissions, and wealth taxes among other changes. These and other initiatives could result in regulatory or policy changes that may affect our results of operations in Chile. The Chilean government held a referendum in October 2020, which determined that a new constitution will be drafted by a constitutional convention. A second vote was held alongside municipal and gubernatorial elections in April 2021 to elect the members of the constitutional convention. A third vote, which is expected to occur in 2022, would accept or reject the new constitution after it is drafted. In November 2019, the Chilean government enacted Law 21,185 that establishes a Stabilization Fund for regulated energy prices. Historically, the government updated the prices for regulated energy contracts every six months to reflect the indexation the contracts have to exchange rates and commodities prices. The new law freezes regulated prices and does not allow the pass-through of these contractual indexation updates to customers beyond the pricing in effect at July 1, 2019, until new lower-cost renewable contracts are incorporated into pricing in 2023. Consequently, costs incurred in excess of the July 1, 2019 price will be accumulated and borne by generators. The receivables will be paid by distribution companies and the face value will be recognized by a Tariff Decree issued by the regulator every six months. In December 2020, AES Andes executed an agreement for the sale of the receivables generated pursuant the Tariff Stabilization Law at a discount. See Note — included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Puerto Rico — Our subsidiaries in Puerto Rico have long-term PPAs with state-owned PREPA, which has been facing economic challenges that could result in a material adverse effect on our business in Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (“PROMESA”) was enacted to create a structure for exercising federal oversight over the fiscal affairs of U.S. territories and created procedures for adjusting debt accumulated by the Puerto Rico government and, potentially, other territories (“Title III”). PROMESA also expedites the approval of key energy projects and other critical projects in Puerto Rico. PROMESA allowed for the establishment of an Oversight Board with broad powers of budgetary and financial control over Puerto Rico. The Oversight Board filed for bankruptcy on behalf of PREPA under Title III in July 2017. As a result of the bankruptcy filing, AES Puerto Rico and AES Ilumina’s non-recourse debt of $201 million and $29 million, respectively, continue to be in technical default and are classified as current as of December 31, 2021. The Company is in compliance with its debt payment obligations as of December 31, 2021. On January 2, 2020, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed a bill that prohibits the disposal and unencapsulated beneficial use of coal combustion residuals in Puerto Rico. Prior to this bill's approval, the Company had put in place arrangements to dispose or beneficially use its coal ash and combustion residual outside of Puerto Rico. New factors arose in the first quarter of 2021 associated with the economic costs and operational and reputational risks of disposal of coal combustion residuals off island. In addition, new legislative initiatives surrounding the prohibition of coal generation assets in Puerto Rico were introduced. Collectively, these factors along with management’s decision on how to best achieve our decarbonization goals resulted in an indicator of impairment at its asset group in Puerto Rico. The Company performed an impairment analysis and determined that the carrying amount of its coal-fired long-lived assets was not recoverable. As a result, the Company recognized asset impairment expense of $475 million. Considering the information available as of the filing date, management believes the carrying amount of our long-lived assets in Puerto Rico of $79 million is recoverable as of December 31, 2021. Reference Rate Reform — In July 2017, the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR. In the U.S., the Alternative Reference Rate Committee at the Federal Reserve identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as its preferred alternative rate for LIBOR; alternative reference rates in other key markets are under development. On March 5, 2021, the Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA") announced the future cessation or non-representativeness of the LIBOR benchmark settings, to cease publication of one-week and two-month USD LIBOR rates by December 31, 2021, and extending the cessation dates for the overnight, one-month, three-month, six-month, and 12-month USD LIBOR rates through June 30, 2023. AES holds a substantial amount of debt and derivative contracts referencing LIBOR as an interest rate benchmark. In order to facilitate an organized transition from LIBOR to alternative benchmark rate(s), AES has established a process to measure and mitigate risks associated with the cessation of LIBOR. As part of this initiative, alternative benchmark rates have been, and continue to be, assessed, and implemented for newly executed agreements. Many of AES’ existing agreements include provisions designed to facilitate an orderly transition from LIBOR, and interest rate derivatives address the LIBOR transition through the adoption of the ISDA 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol and subsequent amendments. To the extent that the terms of the credit agreements and derivative instruments do not align following the cessation of LIBOR rates, AES will seek to negotiate contract amendments with counterparties or additional derivatives contracts. Global Tax — The macroeconomic and political environments in the U.S. and some countries where our subsidiaries conduct business have changed during 2020 and 2021. This could result in significant impacts to tax law. For example, the “American Rescue Plan Act of 2021” was signed into law on March 11, 2021. The $1.9 trillion act includes COVID-19 relief as well as broader stimulus, but also includes several revenue-raising and business tax provisions. Two corporate income tax increases partially offset the cost of the bill: the elimination of a beneficial foreign tax credit rule, and the expansion of executive compensation deduction limits effective in 2027. In the third quarter of 2021, both the United States Senate and the United States House of Representatives passed $3.5 trillion budget resolutions as a first step to the budget reconciliation process that could include U.S. corporate and international tax reforms. As part of the reconciliation process, the House Ways and Means Committee marked up a version of the “Build Back Better Act”. The Build Back Better Act included U.S. corporate and international tax reform proposals that would increase the U.S. corporate income tax rate, modify the GILTI rules, create additional interest deduction limitations and provide clean energy incentives, among others. The Company believes it would benefit from the clean energy initiatives, though the tax implications may be unfavorable in the short term. As of the filing date, this legislation has not been voted on in the United States Senate. With respect to international tax reform, in the third quarter of 2021,132 member countries of the OECD “Inclusive Framework” group released a statement announcing a coordinated framework that would reallocate taxing rights over the profits of multinational corporations and establish a global minimum tax at a 15% rate. On December 20, 2021 the OECD released a set of Model Rules related to the so-called Pillar 2 global minimum tax known as the Global Anti-Base Erosion (GloBE) . On December 22, 2021, the European Commission proposed a draft Directive establishing a global minimum level of taxation. The proposal, if approved by all 27 EU Member States, would require each Member State to transpose the Directive into their respective national laws by December 31, 2022 for the Income Inclusion Rule to come into effect as of January 1, 2023 and the Under Taxed Payments Rule to come into effect January 1, 2024. The Subject to Tax Rule was excluded from the draft Directive. These Rules, collectively, comprise the main facets of the GloBE. The potential impact to the Company is not known, but may be material. Implementation of the framework would require multilateral agreement and/or country specific legislative action, including in the U.S. Inflation — In the markets in which we operate, there have been higher rates of inflation in recent months. While most of our contracts in our international businesses are indexed to inflation, in general, our U.S.-based generation contracts are not indexed to inflation. If inflation continues to increase in our markets, it may increase our expenses that we may not be able to pass through to customers. It may also increase the costs of some of our development projects that could negatively impact their competitiveness. Our utility businesses do allow for recovering of operations and maintenance costs through the regulatory process, which may have timing impacts on recovery. Alto Maipo The Company's subsidiary, Alto Maipo, is currently constructing a hydroelectric facility near Santiago, Chile which is approximately 99% complete and started generating energy in the fourth quarter of 2021 as part of the commissioning process. The Alto Maipo project (the “Project”) has experienced significant construction difficulties, which resulted in a substantial increase in project costs over the original budget and led to a series of negotiations that resulted in securing additional funding from creditors and additional equity injections from AES Andes. On March 17, 2017, Alto Maipo completed the first financial and legal restructuring of the Project. Following this restructuring, Alto Maipo terminated a construction contract with Constructora Nuevo Maipo S.A. (“CNM”) as a result of CNM’s failure to perform. On July 3, 2017, CNM filed a claim against Alto Maipo before the International Chamber of Commerce (“ICC”) for cost overruns and contract termination. Prior to this claim, Alto Maipo issued an arbitration request before the ICC for multiple contract breaches by CNM. See Item 3.— in this Form 10-K for further information and status of the proceedings. In February 2018, Alto Maipo signed an amended EPC contract with Strabag, which increased the scope of the original contract to incorporate CNM’s work and was approved by the creditors in May 2018 as part of the second restructuring of the Project. On August 27, 2021, Alto Maipo updated its creditors with respect to the construction budget and long-term business plan for the Project, which considers different scenarios for spot prices, decarbonization initiatives, and hydrological conditions, among other significant variables. Under some of these scenarios, Alto Maipo may experience reduced future cash flows, which would limit its ability to repay debt. Alto Maipo’s management initiated negotiations with its creditors to restructure its obligations and achieve a sustainable long-term capital structure for Alto Maipo. On November 17, 2021, Alto Maipo SpA commenced a reorganization proceeding in accordance with Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, through a voluntary petition. Consequently, after Chapter 11 filing, The AES Corporation is no longer considered to have control over Alto Maipo and, therefore, derecognized Alto Maipo from its Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognized an after-tax loss of approximately $1.2 billion, net of noncontrolling interests, in the Consolidated Statement of Operations in the fourth quarter of 2021, associated with the loss of control attributable to the former controlling interest. Alto Maipo is party to a restructuring support agreement to which holders of more than 78% of the outstanding senior indebtedness are party, and which contemplates a plan of reorganization in which AES Andes will own all of the equity of the reorganized company. If Alto Maipo is unable to renegotiate the terms of its financial arrangements with its creditors and is unable to meet its obligations under those arrangements as they come due, the creditors may enforce their rights under the credit agreements. These finance agreements are non-recourse with respect to The AES Corporation. Decarbonization Initiatives Several initiatives have been announced by regulators and offtakers in recent years, with the intention of reducing GHG emissions generated by the energy industry. Our strategy of shifting towards clean energy platforms, including renewable energy, energy storage, LNG, and modernized grids is designed to position us for continued growth while reducing our carbon intensity. The shift to renewables has caused certain customers to migrate to other low-carbon energy solutions and this trend may continue. Certain of our contracts contain clauses designed to compensate for early contract terminations, but we cannot guarantee full recovery. In February 2022, the Company announced its intent to exit coal generation by year-end 2025 versus our prior expectation of a reduction to below 10% by year-end 2025, subject to necessary approvals. Although the Company cannot currently estimate the financial impact of these decarbonization initiatives, new legislative or regulatory programs further restricting carbon emissions could require material capital expenditures, result in a reduction of the estimated useful life of certain coal facilities, or have other material adverse effects on our financial results. For further discussion of our strategy of shifting towards clean energy platforms see Item 1— . Chilean Decarbonization Plan — The Chilean government has announced an initiative to phase out coal power plants by 2040 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2050. On June 4, 2019, AES Andes signed an agreement with the Chilean government to cease the operation of two coal units for a total of 322 MW as part of the phase-out. Under the agreement, Ventanas 1 (114 MW) will cease operation in November 2022 and Ventanas 2 (208 MW) in May 2024; however AES Andes has announced its intention to accelerate the disconnection of these units. On December 26, 2020, the Chilean government issued Supreme Decree Number 42, which allows coal plants to remain connected to the grid in “strategic reserve status” for five years after ceasing operations, receive a reduced capacity payment, and dispatch, if necessary, to ensure the electric system’s reliability. On December 29, 2020, Ventanas 1 ceased operation and entered "strategic reserve status." Ventanas 2 is also expected to enter "strategic reserve status" in September 2022. On July 6, 2021, AES Andes and the Chilean government signed an amendment to the decarbonization agreement to include the Ventanas 3 (267 MW), Ventanas 4 (270 MW), Angamos 1 (277 MW), and Angamos 2 (281 MW) plants. The plants will be available for disconnection after January 2025, subject to system reliability and sufficiency. The Company performed an impairment analysis at June 30, 2021 and determined the carrying amounts of these asset groups were not recoverable. As a result, AES Andes recognized asset impairment expense of $804 million ($540 million net of NCI). See Item 1— for further discussion. Considering the information available as of the filing date, management believes the carrying amount of our coal-fired long-lived assets in Chile of $1.1 billion is recoverable as of December 31, 2021. Puerto Rico Energy Public Policy Act — On April 11, 2019, the Governor of Puerto Rico signed the Puerto Rico Energy Public Policy Act (“the Act”) establishing guidelines for grid efficiency and eliminating coal as a source for electricity generation by January 1, 2028. The Act supports the accelerated deployment of renewables through the Renewable Portfolio Standard and the conversion of coal generating facilities to other fuel sources, with compliance targets of 40% by 2025, 60% by 2040, and 100% by 2050. AES Puerto Rico’s long-term PPA with PREPA expires November 30, 2027. PREPA and AES Puerto Rico have discussed different strategic alternatives, but have yet to reach any agreement. Any agreement that may be reached would be subject to lender and regulatory approval, including that of the Oversight Board that filed for bankruptcy on behalf of PREPA. As described under Macroeconomic and Political above, additional factors arose in the first quarter of 2021 with respect to the disposal of coal combustion residuals, which contributed to the Company recognizing an asset impairment expense of $475 million. Considering the information available as of the filing date, management believes the carrying amount of our long-lived assets in Puerto Rico of $79 million is recoverable as of December 31, 2021. Hawaii — In July 2020, the Hawaii State Legislature passed a bill that will prohibit AES Hawaii from generating electricity from coal after December 31, 2022. This bill will restrict the Company from contracting the asset beyond the expiration of its existing PPA, and as a result, AES plans to retire the AES Hawaii coal facility in 2022. Considering the information available as of the filing date, management believes the carrying amount of our coal-fired long-lived assets in Hawaii of $14 million is recoverable as of December 31, 2021. For further information about the risks associated with decarbonization initiatives, see Item 1A.— — Concerns about GHG emissions and the potential risks associated with climate change have led to increased regulation and other actions that could impact our businesses included in this Form 10-K. Regulatory AES Maritza PPA Review — DG Comp is conducting a preliminary review of whether AES Maritza’s PPA with NEK is compliant with the European Union's State Aid rules. No formal investigation has been launched by DG Comp to date. However, AES Maritza has been engaging in discussions with the DG Comp case team and the Government of Bulgaria ("GoB") to attempt to reach a negotiated resolution of the DG Comp’s review ("PPA Discussions"). The PPA Discussions are ongoing and the PPA continues to remain in place. However, there can be no assurance that, in the context of the PPA Discussions, the other parties will not seek a prompt termination of the PPA. We do not believe termination of the PPA is justified. Nevertheless, the PPA Discussions involve a range of potential outcomes, including but not limited to the termination of the PPA and payment of some level of compensation to AES Maritza. Any negotiated resolution would be subject to mutually acceptable terms, lender consent, and DG Comp approval. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of the PPA Discussions or when those discussions will conclude. Nor can we predict how DG Comp might resolve its review if the PPA Discussions fail to result in an agreement concerning the agency's review. AES Maritza believes that its PPA is legal and in compliance with all applicable laws, and it will take all actions necessary to protect its interests, whether through negotiated agreement or otherwise. However, there can be no assurance that this matter will be resolved favorably; if it is not, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows. Considering the information available as of the filing date, management believes the carrying value of our long-lived assets at Maritza of approximately $959 million is recoverable as of December 31, 2021. Foreign Exchange Rates We operate in multiple countries and as such are subject to volatility in exchange rates at varying degrees at the subsidiary level and between our functional currency, the USD, and currencies of the countries in which we operate. In 2019 there was a significant devaluation in the Argentine peso against the USD, which had an impact on our 2019 results. Continued material devaluation of the Argentine peso against the USD could have an impact on our future results. The Argentine economy continues to be considered highly inflationary under U.S. GAAP; as such, all of our Argentine businesses are reported using the USD as the functional currency. For additional information, refer to Item 7A.— . Impairments Long-lived Assets — During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recognized asset impairment expense of $1.6 billion. See Note 22— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. After recognizing these impairment expenses, the carrying value of our long-lived assets that were assessed for impairment in 2021 totaled $243 million at December 31, 2021. Events or changes in circumstances that may necessitate recoverability tests and potential impairments of long-lived assets may include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, unfavorable changes in power prices or fuel costs, increased competition due to additional capacity in the grid, technological advancements, declining trends in demand, evolving industry expectations to transition away from fossil fuel sources for generation, or an expectation it is more likely than not the asset will be disposed of before the end of its estimated useful life. Goodwill — The Company currently has no reporting units considered to be "at risk". A reporting unit is considered "at risk" when its fair value does not exceed its carrying amount by 10%. The Company monitors its reporting units at risk of impairment for interim impairment indicators, and believes that the estimates and assumptions used in the calculations are reasonable as of December 31, 2021. Should the fair value of any of the Company’s reporting units fall below its carrying amount because of reduced operating performance, market declines, changes in the discount rate, regulatory changes, or other adverse conditions, goodwill impairment charges may be necessary in future periods. Capital Resources and Liquidity Overview As of December 31, 2021, the Company had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $943 million, of which $41 million was held at the Parent Company and qualified holding companies. The Company had $232 million in short-term investments, held primarily at subsidiaries, and restricted cash and debt service reserves of $541 million. The Company also had non-recourse and recourse aggregate principal amounts of debt outstanding of $14.8 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. Of the $1.4 billion of our current non-recourse debt, $1.1 billion was presented as such because it is due in the next twelve months and $237 million relates to debt considered in default due to covenant violations. None of the defaults are payment defaults but are instead technical defaults triggered by failure to comply with covenants or other requirements contained in the non-recourse debt documents, of which $230 million is due to the bankruptcy of the offtaker. We expect current maturities of non-recourse debt to be repaid from net cash provided by operating activities of the subsidiary to which the debt relates, through opportunistic refinancing activity, or some combination thereof. We have $25 million of recourse debt which matures within the next twelve months. From time to time, we may elect to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise when management believes that such securities are attractively priced. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, and other factors. The amounts involved in any such repurchases may be material. We rely mainly on long-term debt obligations to fund our construction activities. We have, to the extent available at acceptable terms, utilized non-recourse debt to fund a significant portion of the capital expenditures and investments required to construct and acquire our electric power plants, distribution companies, and related assets. Our non-recourse financing is designed to limit cross-default risk to the Parent Company or other subsidiaries and affiliates. Our non-recourse long-term debt is a combination of fixed and variable interest rate instruments. Debt is typically denominated in the currency that matches the currency of the revenue expected to be generated from the benefiting project, thereby reducing currency risk. In certain cases, the currency is matched through the use of derivative instruments. The majority of our non-recourse debt is funded by international commercial banks, with debt capacity supplemented by multilaterals and local regional banks. Given our long-term debt obligations, the Company is subject to interest rate risk on debt balances that accrue interest at variable rates. When possible, the Company will borrow funds at fixed interest rates or hedge its variable rate debt to fix its interest costs on such obligations. In addition, the Company has historically tried to maintain at least 70% of its consolidated long-term obligations at fixed interest rates, including fixing the interest rate through the use of interest rate swaps. These efforts apply to the notional amount of the swaps compared to the amount of related underlying debt. Presently, the Parent Company's only material unhedged exposure to variable interest rate debt relates to drawings of $365 million under its revolving credit facility. On a consolidated basis, of the Company's $18.8 billion of total gross debt outstanding as of December 31, 2021, approximately $2.4 billion bore interest at variable rates that were not subject to a derivative instrument which fixed the interest rate. Brazil holds $1.1 billion of our floating rate non-recourse exposure as variable rate instruments act as a natural hedge against inflation in Brazil. In addition to utilizing non-recourse debt at a subsidiary level when available, the Parent Company provides a portion, or in certain instances all, of the remaining long-term financing or credit required to fund development, construction or acquisition of a particular project. These investments have generally taken the form of equity investments or intercompany loans, which are subordinated to the project's non-recourse loans. We generally obtain the funds for these investments from our cash flows from operations, proceeds from the sales of assets and/or the proceeds from our issuances of debt, common stock and other securities. Similarly, in certain of our businesses, the Parent Company may provide financial guarantees or other credit support for the benefit of counterparties who have entered into contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity, equipment, or other services with our subsidiaries or lenders. In such circumstances, if a business defaults on its payment or supply obligation, the Parent Company will be responsible for the business' obligations up to the amount provided for in the relevant guarantee or other credit support. As of December 31, 2021, the Parent Company had provided outstanding financial and performance-related guarantees or other credit support commitments to or for the benefit of our businesses, which were limited by the terms of the agreements, of approximately $2.2 billion in aggregate (excluding those collateralized by letters of credit and other obligations discussed below). As a result of the Parent Company's split rating, some counterparties may be unwilling to accept our general unsecured commitments to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, the Parent Company may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace our credit support. The Parent Company may not be able to provide adequate assurances to such counterparties. To the extent we are required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties, this will reduce the amount of credit available to us to meet our other liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2021, we had $119 million in letters of credit outstanding provided under our unsecured credit facilities, and $48 million in letters of credit outstanding provided under our revolving credit facility. These letters of credit operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project development and construction activities and business operations. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company paid letter of credit fees ranging from 1% to 3% per annum on the outstanding amounts. We expect to continue to seek, where possible, non-recourse debt financing in connection with the assets or businesses that we or our affiliates may develop, construct or acquire. However, depending on local and global market conditions and the unique characteristics of individual businesses, non-recourse debt may not be available on economically attractive terms or at all. If we decide not to provide any additional funding or credit support to a subsidiary project that is under construction or has near-term debt payment obligations and that subsidiary is unable to obtain additional non-recourse debt, such subsidiary may become insolvent, and we may lose our investment in that subsidiary. Additionally, if any of our subsidiaries lose a significant customer, the subsidiary may need to withdraw from a project or restructure the non-recourse debt financing. If we or the subsidiary choose not to proceed with a project or are unable to successfully complete a restructuring of the non-recourse debt, we may lose our investment in that subsidiary. Many of our subsidiaries depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage their liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty may have material adverse effects on the financial condition and results of operations of those subsidiaries. In addition, changes in the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions could affect the cash flows and results of operations of our businesses. Long-Term Receivables As of December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $58 million of gross accounts receivable classified as Other noncurrent assets . These noncurrent receivables mostly consist of accounts receivable in Argentina and Chile that, pursuant to amended agreements or government resolutions, have collection periods that extend beyond December 31, 2022, or one year from the latest balance sheet date. The majority of Argentine receivables have been converted into long-term financing for the construction of power plants. Noncurrent receivables in Chile pertain primarily to revenues recognized on regulated energy contracts that were impacted by the Stabilization Fund created by the Chilean government. A portion relates to the extension of existing PPAs with the addition of renewable energy. See Note 7— included in Item 8.— , Item 1.— , and Item 7.— of this Form 10-K for further information. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately $1.2 billion of loans receivable primarily related to a facility constructed under a BOT contract in Vietnam. This loan receivable represents contract consideration related to the construction of the facility, which was substantially completed in 2015, and will be collected over the 25-year term of the plant's PPA. In December 2020, Mong Duong met the held-for-sale criteria and the loan receivable balance, net of CECL reserve, was reclassified to held-for-sale assets. As of December 31, 2021, $91 million of the loan receivable balance was classified as Current held-for-sale assets and $1.1 billion was classified as Noncurrent held-for-sale assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 20— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Cash Sources and Uses The primary sources of cash for the Company in the year ended December 31, 2021 were debt financings, cash flows from operating activities, proceeds from the issuance of Equity Units, and sales of short-term investments. The primary uses of cash in the year ended December 31, 2021 were repayments of debt, capital expenditures, acquisitions of business interests, and purchases of short-term investments. The primary sources of cash for the Company in the year ended December 31, 2020 were debt financings, cash flows from operating activities, sales of short-term investments, and sales to noncontrolling interests. The primary uses of cash in the year ended December 31, 2020 were repayments of debt, capital expenditures, and purchases of short-term investments. The primary sources of cash for the Company in the year ended December 31, 2019 were debt financings, cash flows from operating activities, and sales of short-term investments. The primary uses of cash in the year ended December 31, 2019 were repayments of debt, capital expenditures, and purchases of short-term investments. A summary of cash-based activities are as follows (in millions): Consolidated Cash Flows The following table reflects the changes in operating, investing, and financing cash flows for the comparative twelve month periods (in millions): Operating Activities Fiscal Year 2021 versus 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $853 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to December 31, 2020. Operating Cash Flows (1) (in millions) (1) Amounts included in the chart above include the results of discontinued operations, where applicable. (2) The change in adjusted net income is defined as the variance in net income , net of the total adjustments to net income as shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. (3) The change in working capital is defined as the variance in total c hanges in operating assets and liabilities as shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. • Adjusted net income increased $799 million, primarily due to higher margins at our US and Utilities SBU, a decrease in current income tax expense at Angamos due to a timing difference in recognition of the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence, and a decrease in interest expense, partially offset by lower margins at our South America SBU. • Working capital requirements increased $1.7 billion, primarily due to a decrease in deferred income at Angamos due to revenue recognized from early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence in 2020, and a decrease in income tax liabilities. Fiscal Year 2020 versus 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities increased $289 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to December 31, 2019. Operating Cash Flows (1) (in millions) (1) Amounts included in the chart above include the results of discontinued operations, where applicable. (2) The change in adjusted net income is defined as the variance in net income , net of the total adjustments to net income as shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. (3) The change in working capital is defined as the variance in total c hanges in operating assets and liabilities as shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. • Adjusted net income decreased $40 million, primarily due to lower margins at our US and Utilities SBU and prior year gains on insurance proceeds associated with the lightning incident at the Andres facility in 2018 and the Changuinola tunnel leak, partially offset by higher margins at our South America and MCAC SBUs. • Working capital requirements decreased $329 million, primarily due to an increase in deferred income at Angamos as a result of the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence. Investing Activities Fiscal Year 2021 versus 2020 Net cash used in investing activities increased $756 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. Investing Cash Flows (in millions) • Acquisitions of business interests increased $522 million, primarily due to the AES Clean Energy acquisitions of New York Wind and Community Energy and the acquisitions of wind complexes at AES Brasil, partially offset by the prior year AES Panama acquisition of Penonome I. • Contributions and loans to equity affiliates increased $95 million, primarily due to higher contributions to Fluence and Uplight, our equity method investments, partially offset by higher prior year contributions to sPower and to Gas Natural Atlántico II, which was previously recorded as an equity investment in Panama in the prior year and is now consolidated by AES. • Repayments from equity affiliates increased $162 million, primarily due to an increase in loan repayments from sPower and Fluence, our equity method investments. • Cash from short-term investing activities increased $123 million, primarily at AES Brasil as a result of lower net short-term investment purchases in 2021. • Capital expenditures increased $216 million, discussed further below. Capital Expenditures (in millions) • Growth expenditures increased $190 million, primarily driven by higher TDSIC investments at AES Ohio and AES Indiana, and renewable projects at AES Clean Energy, AES Brasil, and AES Andes. This impact was partially offset by the completion of renewable energy projects in Argentina and the completion of the Southland repowering project. • Maintenance expenditures increased $33 million, primarily due to increased expenditures at AES Andes, DPL, El Salvador, and Mexico, partially offset by prior year expenditures at Andres as a result of the steam turbine lightning damage, and by decreased expenditures at AES Indiana and Itabo, due to its sale in the current year. • Environmental expenditures decreased $7 million, primarily due to the timing of payments in the prior year related to projects at AES Indiana. Fiscal Year 2020 versus 2019 Net cash used in investing activities decreased $426 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019. Investing Cash Flows (in millions) (1) Insurance proceeds are included within "Other investing" within the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. • Cash from short-term investing activities increased $78 million, primarily at Tietê as a result of lower net short-term investment purchases in 2020. • Insurance proceeds decreased $141 million, largely due to prior year insurance proceeds associated with the lightning incident at the Andres facility in 2018 and the Changuinola tunnel leak. • Capital expenditures decreased $505 million, discussed further below. Capital Expenditures (in millions) • Growth expenditures decreased $356 million, primarily driven by the timing of payments for the Southland repowering project, renewable energy projects in Argentina, and a pipeline project at Andres, as well as the completion of solar projects at AES Brasil, a wind project at AES Hawaii, and the Colon LNG facility in Panama. This impact was partially offset by higher investments at IPALCO and in renewable projects in Chile. • Maintenance expenditures decreased $143 million, primarily due to prior year expenditures at Andres as a result of the steam turbine lightning damage and in Panama as a result of the Changuinola tunnel lining upgrade, as well as due to the timing of payments in the prior year at IPALCO. • Environmental expenditures decreased $6 million, primarily due to the timing of payments in the prior year related to projects in Chile. Financing Activities Fiscal Year 2021 versus 2020 Net cash provided by financing activities increased $875 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. Financing Cash Flows (in millions) See Notes 11— and 17— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for more information regarding significant debt and equity transactions, respectively. • The $1 billion impact from issuance of preferred stock is due to the issuance of Equity Units at the Parent Company. • The $405 million impact from Parent Company revolver transactions is primarily due to higher net borrowings in the current year. • The $364 million impact from contributions from noncontrolling interests is primarily due to contributions from minority interests at AES Clean Energy, IPALCO, and AES Andes, due to the preemptive rights offering to fund its renewable growth program. • The $142 million impact from acquisitions of noncontrolling interests is due to the prior year acquisition of an additional 19.8% ownership interest in AES Brasil, partially offset by the first installment for the acquisition of the remaining 49.9% minority ownership interest in Colon. • The $912 million impact from non-recourse debt transactions is primarily due to lower net borrowings at Panama, Southland Energy, Vietnam, and Argentina, and higher net repayments at AES Brasil, partially offset by higher net borrowings at AES Clean Energy and lower net repayments in Chile. • The $380 million impact from sales to noncontrolling interests is primarily due to prior year proceeds received from the sale of a 35% ownership interest in Southland Energy. • The $242 million impact from other financing activities is primarily driven by a decrease in distributions to noncontrolling interests, due to lower distributions to minority interests at AES Andes, AES Brasil, and Itabo, due to its sale in April 2021. Fiscal Year 2020 versus 2019 Net cash used in financing activities decreased $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019. Financing Cash Flows (in millions) See Notes 11— and 17— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for more information regarding significant debt and equity transactions, respectively. • The $503 million impact from recourse debt transactions is primarily due to higher net borrowings at the Parent Company. • The $425 million impact from sales to noncontrolling interests is primarily due to the proceeds received from the sale of a 35% ownership interest in Southland Energy. • The $112 million impact from issuance of preferred shares in subsidiaries is due to proceeds from the issuance of preferred shares to minority interests of Cochrane. • The $453 million impact from non-recourse debt transactions is primarily due to lower net borrowings at Southland and Chile, partially offset by a decrease in net repayments at AES Brasil and DPL and higher net borrowings at AES Renewable Holdings, Panama, and Vietnam. • The $290 million impact from Parent Company revolver transactions is primarily due to higher net repayments in the current year. • The $259 million impact from acquisitions of noncontrolling interests is primarily due to the acquisition of an additional 19.8% ownership interest in AES Brasil. Parent Company Liquidity The following discussion is included as a useful measure of the liquidity available to The AES Corporation, or the Parent Company, given the non-recourse nature of most of our indebtedness. Parent Company Liquidity as outlined below is a non-GAAP measure and should not be construed as an alternative to Cash and cash equivalents, which is determined in accordance with GAAP. Parent Company Liquidity may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies. The principal sources of liquidity at the Parent Company level are dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, including refinancing proceeds, proceeds from debt and equity financings at the Parent Company level, including availability under our revolving credit facility, and proceeds from asset sales. Cash requirements at the Parent Company level are primarily to fund interest and principal repayments of debt, construction commitments, other equity commitments, common stock repurchases, acquisitions, taxes, Parent Company overhead and development costs, and dividends on common stock. The Company defines Parent Company Liquidity as cash available to the Parent Company, including cash at qualified holding companies, plus available borrowings under our existing credit facility. The cash held at qualified holding companies represents cash sent to subsidiaries of the Company domiciled outside of the U.S. Such subsidiaries have no contractual restrictions on their ability to send cash to the Parent Company. Parent Company Liquidity is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, Cash and cash equivalents , at the periods indicated as follows (in millions): The Parent Company paid dividends of $0.60 per outstanding share to its common stockholders during the year ended December 31, 2021. While we intend to continue payment of dividends and believe we will have sufficient liquidity to do so, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends, or if continued, the amount of such dividends. Recourse Debt Our total recourse debt was $3.8 billion and $3.4 billion at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See Note 11— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional detail. We believe that our sources of liquidity will be adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. This belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, currency exchange rates, power market pool prices, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries' ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us (at the Parent Company level) is subject to certain limitations contained in loans, governmental provisions and other agreements. We can provide no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that the actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. We have met our interim needs for shorter-term and working capital financing at the Parent Company level with our revolving credit facility. See Item 1A.— — The AES Corporation's ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness is dependent upon the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries, of this Form 10-K. Various debt instruments at the Parent Company level, including our revolving credit facility, contain certain restrictive covenants. The covenants provide for, among other items, limitations on liens; restrictions and limitations on mergers and acquisitions and the disposition of assets; maintenance of certain financial ratios; and financial and other reporting requirements. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with these covenants at the Parent Company level. Non-Recourse Debt While the lenders under our non-recourse debt financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, defaults thereunder can still have important consequences for our results of operations and liquidity, including, without limitation: • reducing our cash flows as the subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the Parent Company during the time period of any default; • triggering our obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support we have provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; • causing us to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; and • triggering defaults in our outstanding debt at the Parent Company. For example, our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt securities at the Parent Company include events of default for certain bankruptcy-related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, our revolving credit agreement at the Parent Company includes events of default related to payment defaults and accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total non-recourse debt classified as current in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts to $1.4 billion. The portion of current debt related to such defaults was $237 million at December 31, 2021, all of which was non-recourse debt related to three subsidiaries — AES Puerto Rico, AES Ilumina, and AES Jordan Solar. None of the defaults are payment defaults, but are instead technical defaults triggered by failure to comply with other covenants or other conditions contained in the non-recourse debt documents, of which $230 million is due to the bankruptcy of the offtaker. See Note 11— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional detail. None of the subsidiaries that are currently in default are subsidiaries that met the applicable definition of materiality under the Parent Company's debt agreements as of December 31, 2021, in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under the Parent Company's indebtedness. However, as a result of additional dispositions of assets, other significant reductions in asset carrying values or other matters in the future that may impact our financial position and results of operations or the financial position of the individual subsidiary, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under the Parent Company's outstanding debt securities. A material subsidiary is defined in the Parent Company's revolving credit facility as any business that contributed 20% or more of the Parent Company's total cash distributions from businesses for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters. As of December 31, 2021, none of the defaults listed above, individually or in the aggregate, results in or is at risk of triggering a cross-default under the recourse debt of the Parent Company. Contractual Obligations and Parent Company Contingent Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations, commitments and other liabilities as of December 31, 2021 is presented below (in millions): _____________________________ (1) Includes recourse and non-recourse debt presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. These amounts exclude finance lease liabilities which are included in the finance lease category. (2) Excludes any businesses classified as held-for-sale. See Note 24— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional information related to held-for-sale businesses. (3) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2021 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or new debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2021. (4) These amounts do not include current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet except for the current portion of uncertain tax obligations. Noncurrent uncertain tax obligations are reflected in the "Other" column of the table above as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the future payments. In addition, these amounts do not include: (1) regulatory liabilities (See Note 10— ), (2) contingencies (See Note 13— ), (3) pension and other postretirement employee benefit liabilities (see Note 15— ), (4) derivatives and incentive compensation (See Note 6— ) or (5) any taxes (See Note 23— ) except for uncertain tax obligations, as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future payments. See the indicated notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional information on the items excluded. (5) For further information see the note referenced below in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. The following table presents our Parent Company's contingent contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021: _____________________________ (1) Excludes normal and customary representations and warranties in agreements for the sale of assets (including ownership in associated legal entities) where the associated risk is considered to be nominal. We have a diverse portfolio of performance-related contingent contractual obligations. These obligations are designed to cover potential risks and only require payment if certain targets are not met or certain contingencies occur. The risks associated with these obligations include change of control, construction cost overruns, subsidiary default, political risk, tax indemnities, spot market power prices, sponsor support and liquidated damages under power sales agreements for projects in development, in operation and under construction. While we do not expect that we will be required to fund any material amounts under these contingent contractual obligations beyond 2021, many of the events which would give rise to such obligations are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to fund our obligations under these contingent contractual obligations if we are required to make substantial payments thereunder. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. AES' significant accounting policies are described in Note 1— to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made, different estimates reasonably could have been used, or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could materially differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee, as appropriate. Listed below are the Company's most significant critical accounting estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes — We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each tax jurisdiction when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. Accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amounts of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may be materially different than the reserve amounts. Because we have a wide range of statutory tax rates in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, any changes in our geographical earnings mix could materially impact our effective tax rate. Furthermore, our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof and such changes may be more likely or become more likely in view of recent economic trends in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, no taxes have been recorded on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. Should the earnings be remitted as dividends, the Company may be subject to additional foreign withholding and state income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of the existing assets and liabilities, and their respective income tax bases. The Company establishes a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company has elected to treat GILTI as an expense in the period in which the tax is accrued. Accordingly, no deferred tax assets or liabilities are recorded related to GILTI. Impairments — Our accounting policies on goodwill and long-lived assets are described in detail in Note 1— , included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The Company makes considerable judgments in its impairment evaluations of goodwill and long-lived assets, starting with determining if an impairment indicator exists. Events that may result in an impairment analysis being performed include, but are not limited to: adverse changes in the regulatory environment, unfavorable changes in power prices or fuel costs, increased competition due to additional capacity in the grid, technological advancements, declining trends in demand, evolving industry expectations to transition away from fossil fuel sources for generation, or an expectation it is more likely than not that the asset will be disposed of before the end of its previously estimated useful life. The Company exercises judgment in determining if these events represent an impairment indicator requiring the computation of the fair value of goodwill and/or the recoverability of long-lived assets. The fair value determination is typically the most judgmental part in an impairment evaluation. Please see Fair Value below for further detail. As part of the impairment evaluation process, management analyzes the sensitivity of fair value to various underlying assumptions. The level of scrutiny increases as the gap between fair value and carrying amount decreases. Changes in any of these assumptions could result in management reaching a different conclusion regarding the potential impairment, which could be material. Our impairment evaluations inherently involve uncertainties from uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. Further discussion of the impairment charges recognized by the Company can be found within Note 9— and Note 22— to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Depreciation — Depreciation, after consideration of salvage value and asset retirement obligations, is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which are determined on a composite or component basis. The Company considers many factors in its estimate of useful lives, including expected usage, physical deterioration, technological changes, existence and length of off-taker agreements, and laws and regulations, among others. In certain circumstances, these estimates involve significant judgment and require management to forecast the impact of relevant factors over an extended time horizon. Useful life estimates are continually evaluated for appropriateness as changes in the relevant factors arise, including when a long-lived asset group is tested for recoverability. Depreciation studies are performed periodically for assets subject to composite depreciation. Any change to useful lives is considered a change in accounting estimate and is made on a prospective basis. Fair Value — For information regarding the fair value hierarchy, see Note 1— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Fair Value of Financial Instruments — A significant number of the Company's financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or other comprehensive income each period. Investments are generally fair valued based on quoted market prices or other observable market data such as interest rate indices. The Company's investments are primarily certificates of deposit and mutual funds. Derivatives are valued using observable data as inputs into internal valuation models. The Company's derivatives primarily consist of interest rate swaps, foreign currency instruments, and commodity and embedded derivatives. Additional discussion regarding the nature of these financial instruments and valuation techniques can be found in Note 5— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Fair Value of Nonfinancial Assets and Liabilities — Significant estimates are made in determining the fair value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets (i.e., property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill) during the impairment evaluation process. In addition, the majority of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination and asset acquisitions by VIEs are required to be recognized at fair value under the relevant accounting guidance. The Company may engage an independent valuation firm to assist management with the valuation. The Company generally utilizes the income approach to value nonfinancial assets and liabilities, specifically a Discounted Cash Flow ("DCF") model to estimate fair value by discounting cash flow forecasts, adjusted to reflect market participant assumptions, to the extent necessary, at an appropriate discount rate. Management applies considerable judgment in selecting several input assumptions during the development of our cash flow forecasts. Examples of the input assumptions that our forecasts are sensitive to include macroeconomic factors such as growth rates, industry demand, inflation, exchange rates, power prices, and commodity prices. Whenever appropriate, management obtains these input assumptions from observable market data sources (e.g., Economic Intelligence Unit) and extrapolates the market information if an input assumption is not observable for the entire forecast period. Many of these input assumptions are dependent on other economic assumptions, which are often derived from statistical economic models with inherent limitations such as estimation differences. Further, several input assumptions are based on historical trends which often do not recur. It is not uncommon that different market data sources have different views of the macroeconomic factor expectations and related assumptions. As a result, macroeconomic factors and related assumptions are often available in a narrow range; however, in some situations these ranges become wide and the use of a different set of input assumptions could produce significantly different budgets and cash flow forecasts. A considerable amount of judgment is also applied in the estimation of the discount rate used in the DCF model. To the extent practical, inputs to the discount rate are obtained from market data sources (e.g., Bloomberg). The Company selects and uses a set of publicly traded companies from the relevant industry to estimate the discount rate inputs. Management applies judgment in the selection of such companies based on its view of the most likely market participants. It is reasonably possible that the selection of a different set of likely market participants could produce different input assumptions and result in the use of a different discount rate. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities — We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. See Note 6— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information on the classification. The fair value measurement standard requires the Company to consider and reflect the assumptions of market participants in the fair value calculation. These factors include nonperformance risk (the risk that the obligation will not be fulfilled) and credit risk, both of the reporting entity (for liabilities) and of the counterparty (for assets). Credit risk for AES is evaluated at the level of the entity that is party to the contract. Nonperformance risk on the Company's derivative instruments is an adjustment to the fair value position that is derived from internally developed valuation models that utilize market inputs that may or may not be observable. As a result of uncertainty, complexity, and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning nonperformance, volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings, and future foreign exchange rates. Refer to Note 5— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional details. The fair value of our derivative portfolio is generally determined using internal and third party valuation models, most of which are based on observable market inputs, including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. The Company derives most of its financial instrument market assumptions from market efficient data sources (e.g., Bloomberg, Reuters and Platt's). In some cases, where market data is not readily available, management uses comparable market sources and empirical evidence to derive market assumptions to determine a financial instrument's fair value. In certain instances, published pricing may not extend through the remaining term of the contract and management must make assumptions to extrapolate the curve. Specifically, where there is limited forward curve data with respect to foreign exchange contracts beyond the traded points, the Company utilizes the interest rate differential approach to construct the remaining portion of the forward curve. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. Regulatory Assets — Management continually assesses whether regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, any asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Consolidation — The Company enters into transactions impacting the Company's equity interests in its affiliates. In connection with each transaction, the Company must determine whether the transaction impacts the Company's consolidation conclusion by first determining whether the transaction should be evaluated under the variable interest model or the voting model. In determining which consolidation model applies to the transaction, the Company is required to make judgments about how the entity operates, the most significant of which are whether (i) the entity has sufficient equity to finance its activities, (ii) the equity holders, as a group, have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, and (iii) whether the entity has non-substantive voting rights. If the entity is determined to be a variable interest entity, the most significant judgment in determining whether the Company must consolidate the entity is whether the Company, including its related parties and de facto agents, collectively have power and benefits. If AES is determined to have power and benefits, the entity will be consolidated by AES. Alternatively, if the entity is determined to be a voting model entity, the most significant judgments involve determining whether the non-AES shareholders have substantive participating rights. The assessment of shareholder rights and whether they are substantive participating rights requires significant judgment since the rights provided under shareholders' agreements may include selecting, terminating, and setting the compensation of management responsible for implementing the subsidiary's policies and procedures, and establishing operating and capital decisions of the entity, including budgets, in the ordinary course of business. On the other hand, if shareholder rights are only protective in nature (referred to as protective rights), then such rights would not overcome the presumption that the owner of a majority voting interest shall consolidate its investee. Significant judgment is required to determine whether minority rights represent substantive participating rights or protective rights that do not affect the evaluation of control. While both represent an approval or veto right, a distinguishing factor is the underlying activity or action to which the right relates. Pension and Other Postretirement Plans — The Company recognizes a net asset or liability reflecting the funded status of pension and other postretirement plans with current-year changes in actuarial gains or losses recognized in AOCL, except for those plans at certain of the Company's regulated utilities that can recover portions of their pension and postretirement obligations through future rates. The valuation of the Company's benefit obligation, fair value of plan assets, and net periodic benefit costs requires various estimates and assumptions, the most significant of which include the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. These assumptions are reviewed by the Company on an annual basis. Refer to Note 1— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information. Revenue Recognition — The Company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of energy, capacity, and other services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. In applying the revenue model, we determine whether the sale of energy, capacity, and other services represent a single performance obligation based on the individual market and terms of the contract. Generally, the promise to transfer energy and capacity represent a performance obligation that is satisfied over time and meets the criteria to be accounted for as a series of distinct goods or services. Progress toward satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured using output methods, such as MWhs delivered or MWs made available, and when we are entitled to consideration in an amount that corresponds directly to the value of our performance completed to date, we recognize revenue in the amount to which we have the right to invoice. For further information regarding the nature of our revenue streams and our critical accounting policies affecting revenue recognition, see Note 1— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Leases — The Company recognizes operating and finance right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for most leases with an initial term of greater than 12 months. Lease liabilities and their corresponding right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected lease term. Our subsidiaries’ incremental borrowing rates are used in determining the present value of lease payments when the implicit rate is not readily determinable. Certain adjustments to the right-of-use asset may be required for items such as prepayments, lease incentives, or initial direct costs. For further information regarding the nature of our leases and our critical accounting policies affecting leases, see Note 1— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Credit Losses — The Company uses a forward-looking "expected loss" model to recognize allowances for credit losses on trade and other receivables, held-to-maturity debt securities, loans, and other instruments. For available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, the Company continues to measure credit losses as it was done under previous GAAP, except that unrealized losses due to credit-related factors are now recognized as an allowance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with a corresponding adjustment to earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For further information regarding credit losses, see Note 1— included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information about new accounting pronouncements adopted during 2021 and accounting pronouncements issued, but not yet effective.