********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations. We routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be materially different than we presently anticipate. The categories of risk we have identified in Item 1A.— include risks associated with our operations, governmental regulation and laws, our indebtedness and financial condition. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with Item 7 .— in this Form 10-K and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected . Risks Associated with our Operations The operation of power generation, distribution and transmission facilities involves significant risks. We are in the business of generating and distributing electricity, which involves certain risks that can adversely affect financial and operating performance, including: • changes in the availability of our generation facilities or distribution systems due to increases in scheduled and unscheduled plant outages, equipment failure, failure of transmission systems, labor disputes, disruptions in fuel supply, poor hydrologic and wind conditions, inability to comply with regulatory or permit requirements, or catastrophic events such as fires, floods, storms, hurricanes, earthquakes, dam failures, tsunamis, explosions, terrorist acts, vandalism, cyber-attacks or other similar occurrences; and • changes in our operating cost structure, including, but not limited to, increases in costs relating to gas, coal, oil and other fuel; fuel transportation; purchased electricity; operations, maintenance and repair; environmental compliance, including the cost of purchasing emissions offsets and capital expenditures to install environmental emission equipment; transmission access; and insurance. Our businesses require reliable transportation sources (including related infrastructure such as roads, ports and rail), power sources and water sources to access and conduct operations. The availability and cost of this infrastructure affects capital and operating costs and levels of production and sales. Limitations or interruptions in this infrastructure or at the facilities of our subsidiaries, including as a result of third parties intentionally or unintentionally disrupting this infrastructure or the facilities of our subsidiaries, could impede their ability to produce electricity. In addition, a portion of our generation facilities were constructed many years ago and may require significant capital expenditures for maintenance. The equipment at our plants requires periodic upgrading, improvement or repair and replacement equipment or parts may be difficult to obtain in circumstances where we rely on a single supplier or a small number of suppliers. The inability to obtain replacement equipment or parts, due to disruption of the supply chain or other factors, may impact the ability of our plants to perform. Breakdown or failure of one of our operating facilities may prevent the facility from performing under applicable power sales agreements which, in certain situations, could result in termination of a power purchase or other agreement or incurrence of a liability for liquidated damages and/or other penalties. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, hurricanes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error or actions of third parties or other external events. The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans, and specific programs supported by quality control systems, which may not prevent the occurrence and impact of these risks. In addition, our battery storage operations also involve risks associated with lithium-ion batteries. On rare occasions, lithium-ion batteries can rapidly release the energy they contain by venting smoke and flames in a manner that can ignite nearby materials as well as other lithium-ion batteries. While more recent design developments for our storage projects seek to minimize the impact of such events, these events are inherent risks of our battery storage operations. The hazards described above, along with other safety hazards associated with our operations, can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. Furthermore, we and our affiliates are parties to material litigation and regulatory proceedings. See Item 3.— below. There can be no assurance that the outcomes of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. We do a significant amount of business outside the U.S., including in developing countries. A significant amount of our revenue is generated in developing countries and we intend to expand our business in certain developing countries in which AES or its customers have an existing presence. International operations, particularly in developing countries, entail significant risks and uncertainties, including: • economic, social and political instability in any particular country or region; • adverse changes in currency exchange rates; • government restrictions on converting currencies or repatriating funds; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulations or in trade, monetary, fiscal or environmental policies; • high inflation and monetary fluctuations; • restrictions on imports of solar panels, wind turbines, coal, oil, gas or other raw materials; • threatened or consummated expropriation or nationalization of our assets by foreign governments; • unexpected delays in permitting and governmental approvals; • unexpected changes or instability affecting our strategic partners in developing countries; • failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or other applicable anti-bribery regulations; • unwillingness of governments, agencies, similar organizations or other counterparties to honor contracts; • unwillingness of governments, government agencies, courts or similar bodies to enforce contracts that are economically advantageous to AES and less beneficial to government or private party counterparties, against those counterparties; • inability to obtain access to fair and equitable political, regulatory, administrative and legal systems; • adverse changes in government tax policy and tax consequences of operating in multiple jurisdictions; • difficulties in enforcing our contractual rights or enforcing judgments or obtaining a favorable result in local jurisdictions; and • inability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Developing projects in less developed economies also entails greater financing risks and such financing may only be available from multilateral or bilateral international financial institutions or agencies that require governmental guarantees for certain project and sovereign-related risks. There can be no assurance that project financing will be available or that, once secured, will provide similar terms or flexibility as would be expected from a commercial lender. Further, our operations may experience volatility in revenues and operating margin caused by regulatory and economic difficulties, political instability and currency devaluations, which may increase the uncertainty of cash flows from these businesses. Any of these factors could have a material, adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our businesses may incur substantial costs and liabilities and be exposed to price volatility as a result of risks associated with the wholesale electricity markets. Some of our businesses sell or buy electricity in the spot markets when they operate at levels that differ from their power sales agreements or retail load obligations or when they do not have any powers sales agreements. Our businesses may also buy electricity in the wholesale spot markets. As a result, we are exposed to the risks of rising and falling prices in those markets. The open market wholesale prices for electricity can be volatile and generally reflect the variable cost of the source generation which could include renewable sources at near zero pricing or thermal sources subject to fluctuating cost of fuels such as coal, natural gas or oil derivative fuels in addition to other factors described below. Consequently, any changes in the generation supply stack and cost of coal, natural gas, or oil derivative fuels may impact the open market wholesale price of electricity. Volatility in market prices for fuel and electricity may result from, among other things: • plant availability in the markets generally; • availability and effectiveness of transmission facilities owned and operated by third parties; • competition and new entrants; • seasonality, hydrology and other weather conditions; • illiquid markets; • transmission, transportation constraints, inefficiencies and/or availability; • renewables source contribution to the supply stack; • increased adoption of distributed generation; • energy efficiency and demand side resources; • available supplies of coal, natural gas, and crude oil and refined products; • generating unit performance; • natural disasters, terrorism, wars, embargoes, pandemics and other catastrophic events; • energy, market and environmental regulation, legislation and policies; • general economic conditions that impact demand and energy consumption; and • bidding behavior and market bidding rules. Wholesale power prices may experience significant volatility in our markets which could impact our operations and opportunities for future growth. The wholesale prices offered for electricity have been volatile in the markets in which we operate due to a variety of factors, including the increased penetration of renewable generation and energy storage resources, low-priced natural gas, demand side management, new regulations and market rules. The levelized cost of electricity from new solar and wind generation sources has decreased substantially over the past decade as solar panel costs and wind turbine costs have declined, while wind and solar capacity factors have increased. These renewable resources have no fuel costs and very low operational costs , while only operating during certain periods of time (daylight) or weather conditions (higher winds). This, combined with changes in oil, gas, and coal pricing, has led to increasingly volatile electricity markets across our markets. Changing weather conditions can also directly impact electricity supply, demand, and generations sources, leading to price volatility . This trend of volatility in wholesale prices could continue and could have a material adverse impact on the financial performance of our existing generation assets to the extent they currently sell or buy power into the spot market to serve our contracts or will seek to sell power into the spot market once our contracts expire. Adverse economic developments in China could have a negative impact on demand for electricity in many of our markets. The Chinese market has been driving global materials demand and pricing for commodities over the past decade. Many of these commodities are produced in our key electricity markets. After experiencing rapid growth for more than a decade, China’s economy has experienced decreasing foreign and domestic demand, weak investment, factory overcapacity and oversupply in the property market, and has experienced a significant slowdown in recent years. U.S. tariffs have also had a negative impact on China's economic growth. Further, China's Zero COVID strategy contributed to a significant decrease in GDP growth in 2022 and its GDP growth in 2023 was below growth rates in the years preceding the pandemic. Continued slowing in China’s economic growth, demand for commodities and/or material changes in policy could result in lower economic growth and lower demand for electricity in our key markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may not have adequate risk mitigation or insurance coverage for liabilities. Power generation, distribution and transmission involves hazardous activities. We may become exposed to significant liabilities for which we may not have adequate risk mitigation and/or insurance coverage. Furthermore, through AGIC, AES’ captive insurance company, we take certain insurance risk on our businesses. We maintain an amount of insurance protection that we believe is customary, but there can be no assurance it will be sufficient or effective in light of all circumstances, hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Our insurance does not cover every potential risk associated with our operations. Adequate coverage at reasonable rates is not always obtainable. In particular, the availability of insurance for coal-fired generation assets has decreased as certain insurers have opted to discontinue or limit offering insurance for such assets. Certain insurers have also withdrawn from insuring hydroelectric assets. We cannot provide assurance that insurance coverage will continue to be available in the amounts or on terms similar to our current policies. In addition, insurance may not fully cover the liability or the consequences of any business interruptions such as natural catastrophes, equipment failure or labor dispute. The occurrence of a significant adverse event not adequately covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results or operations, financial condition, and prospects. We may not be able to enter into long-term contracts that reduce volatility in our results. Many of our generation plants conduct business under long-term sales and supply contracts, which helps these businesses to manage risks by reducing the volatility associated with power and input costs and providing a stable revenue and cost structure. In these instances, we rely on power sales contracts with one or a limited number of customers for the majority of, and in some cases all of, the relevant plant's output and revenues over the term of the power sales contract. The remaining terms of the power sales contracts of our generation plants range from one to more than 20 years. In many cases, we also limit our exposure to fluctuations in fuel prices by entering into long-term contracts for fuel with a limited number of suppliers. In these instances, the cash flows and results of operations are dependent on the continued ability of customers and suppliers to meet their obligations under the relevant power sales contract or fuel supply contract, respectively. Some of our long-term power sales agreements are at prices above current spot market prices and some of our long-term fuel supply contracts are at prices below current market prices. The loss of significant power sales contracts or fuel supply contracts, or the failure by any of the parties to such contracts that prevents us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder, could adversely impact our strategy by resulting in costs that exceed revenue, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, depending on market conditions and regulatory regimes, it may be difficult for us to secure long-term contracts, either where our current contracts are expiring or for new development projects. The inability to enter into long-term contracts could require many of our businesses to purchase inputs at market prices and sell electricity into spot markets, which may not be favorable. We have sought to reduce counterparty credit risk under our long-term contracts by entering into power sales contracts with utilities or other customers of strong credit quality and by obtaining guarantees from certain sovereign governments of the customer's obligations; however, many of our customers do not have or have not maintained, investment-grade credit ratings. Our generation businesses cannot always obtain government guarantees and if they do, the government may not have an investment grade credit rating. We have also located our plants in different geographic areas in order to mitigate the effects of regional economic downturns; however, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be effective. Our renewable energy projects and other initiatives face considerable uncertainties. Wind, solar, hydrogen, and energy storage projects are subject to substantial risks. Some of these business lines are dependent upon favorable regulatory incentives to support continued investment, and there is significant uncertainty about the extent to which such favorable regulatory incentives will be available in the future. In particular, in the U.S., AES’ renewable energy generation growth strategy depends in part on federal, state and local government policies and incentives that support the development, financing, ownership and operation of renewable energy generation projects, including investment tax credits, production tax credits, accelerated depreciation, renewable portfolio standards, feed-in-tariffs and similar programs, renewable energy credit mechanisms, and tax exemptions. If these policies and incentives are changed or eliminated, or AES is unable to use them, there could be a material adverse impact on AES’ U.S. renewable growth opportunities, including fewer future PPAs or lower prices in future PPAs, decreased revenues, reduced economic returns on certain project company investments, increased financing costs, and/or difficulty obtaining financing. In addition,new tariffs, duties or other assessments could be imposed on the imports of solar cells, modules, batteries or other equipment utilized in our renewable energy projects. Any such developments could impede the realization of our U.S. renewables strategy by resulting in, among other items, lack of a satisfactory market for the development and/or financing of our U.S. renewable energy projects, abandoning the development of certain U.S. renewable energy projects, a loss of our investments in the projects, and/or reduced project returns. Furthermore, production levels for our wind and solar projects may be dependent upon adequate wind or sunlight resulting in volatility in production levels and profitability. For our wind projects, wind resource estimates are based on historical experience when available and on wind resource studies conducted by an independent engineer. These wind resource estimates are not expected to reflect actual wind energy production in any given year, but long-term averages of a resource. As a result, these types of projects face considerable risk, including that favorable regulatory regimes expire or are adversely modified. At the development or acquisition stage, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and the projects may not perform as predicted. There are also risks associated with the fact that some of these projects exist in markets where long-term fixed-price contracts for the major cost and revenue components may be unavailable, which in turn may result in these projects having relatively high levels of volatility. These projects can be capital-intensive and generally are designed with a view to obtaining third-party financing, which may be difficult to obtain. As a result, these capital constraints may reduce our ability to develop or obtain third-party financing for these projects. Further, in the U.S., the tax credits associated with certain renewables projects are earned when the project is placed in service. Delays in executing our renewables projects can result in delays in recognizing those tax credits and adversely impact our short-term financial results. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our development projects are subject to substantial uncertainties. We are in various stages of developing and constructing renewables projects and power plants. Certain of these projects have signed long-term contracts or made similar arrangements for the sale of electricity. Successful completion of the development of these projects depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including risks relating to siting, financing, engineering and construction, permitting, interconnection and transmission, governmental approvals, commissioning delays, supply chain related disruptions to our access to materials, or the potential for termination of the power sales contract as a result of a failure to meet certain milestones. Objections of or challenges by local communities or interest groups may delay or impede permitting for our development projects. Additionally, in the U.S., there is a significant backlog of interconnection requests for renewables projects and the average time for receiving interconnection approvals is over four years, with significant variations across projects. There are also severe bottlenecks in the transmission system and the build-out of renewables to meet policy goals for renewable deployment will require substantial upgrades to the transmission network. In certain cases, our subsidiaries may enter into obligations in the development process even though they have not yet secured financing, PPAs, or other important elements for a successful project. For example, our subsidiaries may instruct contractors to begin the construction process or seek to procure equipment without having financing, a PPA or critical permits in place (or enter into a PPA, procurement agreement or other agreement without agreed financing). If the project does not proceed, our subsidiaries may retain certain liabilities. Furthermore, we may undertake significant development costs and subsequently not proceed with a particular project. We believe that capitalized costs for projects under development are recoverable; however, there can be no assurance that any individual project will reach commercial operation. If development efforts are not successful, we may abandon certain projects, resulting in, writing off the costs incurred, expensing related capitalized development costs incurred and incurring additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. Our acquisitions may not perform as expected. Acquisitions have been a significant part of our growth strategy historically and more recently as we grow our renewables business. Although acquired businesses may have significant operating histories, we may have limited or no history of owning and operating certain of these businesses, and possibly limited or no experience operating in the country or region where these businesses are located. We also may encounter challenges in integrating and realizing the expected benefits of these acquisitions as well as integration or other one-time costs that are greater than expected. Such businesses may not generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them; and the rate of return from such businesses may not justify our investment of capital to acquire them. In addition, some of these businesses may have been government owned and some may be operated as part of a larger integrated utility prior to their acquisition. If we were to acquire any of these types of businesses, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in transitioning them to private ownership or that we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities. The COVID-19 pandemic, or the future outbreak of any other highly infectious or contagious diseases, could impact our business and operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted global economic activity in recent years, including electricity and energy consumption. COVID-19 or another pandemic could have material and adverse effects on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows due to, among other factors: • further decline in customer demand as a result of general decline in business activity; • further destabilization of the markets and decline in business activity negatively impacting customers’ ability to pay for our services when due or at all, including downstream impacts, whereby the utilities’ customers are unable to pay monthly bills or receiving a moratorium from payment obligations, resulting in inability on the part of utilities to make payments for power supplied by our generation companies; • decline in business activity causing our commercial and industrial customers to experience declining revenues and liquidity difficulties that impede their ability to pay for power that we supply; • government moratoriums or other regulatory or legislative actions that limit changes in pricing, delay or suspend customers’ payment obligations or permit extended payment terms applicable to customers of our utilities or to our offtakers under power purchase agreements, in particular, to the extent that such measures are not mitigated by associated government subsidies or other support to address any shortfall or deficiencies in payments; • claims by our PPA counterparties for delay or relief from payment obligations or other adjustments, including claims based on force majeure or other legal grounds; • further decline in spot electricity prices; • the destabilization of the markets and decline in business activity negatively impacting our customer growth in our service territories at our utilities; • negative impacts on the health of our essential personnel and on our operations as a result of implementing stay-at-home, quarantine, curfew and other social distancing measures; • delays or inability to access, transport and deliver fuel to our generation facilities due to restrictions on business operations or other factors affecting us and our third-party suppliers; • delays or inability to access equipment or the availability of personnel to perform planned and unplanned maintenance or disruptions in supply chain, which can, in turn, lead to disruption in operations; • a deterioration in our ability to ensure business continuity, including increased cybersecurity attacks related to the work-from-home environment; • further delays to our construction projects, including at our renewables projects, and the timing of the completion of renewables projects; • delay or inability to receive the necessary permits for our development projects due to delays or shutdowns of government operations; • delays in achieving our financial goals, strategy and digital transformation; • deterioration of the credit profile of The AES Corporation and/or its subsidiaries and difficulty accessing the capital and credit markets on favorable terms, or at all, and a severe disruption and instability in the global financial markets, or deterioration in credit and financing conditions, which could affect our access to capital necessary to fund business operations or address maturing liabilities on a timely basis; • delays or inability to complete asset sales on anticipated terms or to redeploy capital as set forth in our capital allocation plans; • increased volatility in foreign exchange and commodity markets; • deterioration of economic conditions, demand and other related factors resulting in impairments to long-lived assets; and • delay or inability in obtaining regulatory actions and outcomes that could be material to our business, including for recovery of COVID-19 related losses and the review and approval of our rates at our U.S. regulated utilities. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic also depends on factors, including the effectiveness and timing of updated vaccines to address new variants, the development of more virulent COVID-19 variants as well as third-party actions taken to contain its spread and mitigate its public health effects. A resurgence or material worsening of the COVID-19 pandemic could present material uncertainty that could adversely affect our generation facilities, transmission and distribution systems, development projects, energy storage sales by Fluence, and results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The COVID-19 pandemic may also heighten many of the other risks described in this section. Competition is increasing and could adversely affect us. The power production markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to, or greater than, ours. Further, in recent years, the power production industry has been characterized by strong and increasing competition with respect to both obtaining power sales agreements and acquiring existing power generation assets. In certain markets, these factors have caused reductions in prices contained in new power sales agreements and, in many cases, have caused higher acquisition prices for existing assets through competitive bidding practices. The evolution of competitive electricity markets and the development of highly efficient gas-fired power plants and renewables such as wind and solar have also caused, and could continue to cause, price pressure in certain power markets where we sell or intend to sell power. In addition, the introduction of low-cost disruptive technologies or the entry of non-traditional competitors into our sector and markets could adversely affect our ability to compete, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Supplier and/or customer concentration may expose us to significant financial credit or performance risks. We often rely on a single contracted supplier or a small number of suppliers for the provision of fuel, transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of some of our facilities. If these suppliers cannot perform, we would seek to meet our fuel requirements by purchasing fuel at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price, which could adversely impact the profitability of the affected business and our results of operations, and could result in a breach of agreements with other counterparties, including, without limitation, offtakers or lenders. Further, our suppliers may source certain materials from areas impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which may cause delays and/or disruptions to our development projects or operations. The financial performance of our facilities is dependent on the credit quality of, and continued performance by, suppliers and customers. At times, we rely on a single customer or a few customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a facility's output, in some cases under long-term agreements that account for a substantial percentage of the anticipated revenue from a given facility. Counterparties to these agreements may breach or may be unable to perform their obligations, due to bankruptcy, insolvency, financial distress or other factors. Furthermore, in the event of a bankruptcy or similar insolvency-type proceeding, our counterparty can seek to reject our existing PPA under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code or similar bankruptcy laws, including those in Puerto Rico. We may not be able to enter into replacement agreements on terms as favorable as our existing agreements, and may have to sell power at market prices. A counterparty's breach by of a PPA or other agreement could also result in the breach of other agreements, including the affected businesses debt agreements. Any failure of a supplier or customer to fulfill its contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may incur significant expenditures to adapt our businesses to technological changes. Emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, or may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services and products that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards. Technological changes that could impact our businesses include: • technologies that change the utilization of electric generation, transmission and distribution assets, including the expanded cost-effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects), and energy storage technology; • advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage that reduce demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation or impact our customers’ performance of long-term agreements; and • more cost-effective batteries for energy storage, advances in solar or wind technology, and advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources. Emerging technologies may also allow new competitors to more effectively compete in our markets or disintermediate the services we provide our customers, including traditional utility and centralized generation services. If we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, or if implemented technology fails to operate as intended, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Cyber-attacks and data security breaches could harm our business. Our business relies on electronic systems and network technologies to operate our generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure. We also use various financial, accounting and other infrastructure systems. Our infrastructure may be targeted by nation states, hacktivists, criminals, insiders or terrorist groups. In particular, there has been an increased focus on the U.S. energy grid believed to be related to the Russia/Ukraine conflict. Such an attack, by hacking, malware or other means, may interrupt our operations, cause property damage, affect our ability to control our infrastructure assets, cause the release of sensitive customer information or limit communications with third parties. Any loss or corruption of confidential or proprietary data through a breach may: • impact our operations, revenue, strategic objectives, customer and vendor relationships; • expose us to legal claims and/or regulatory investigations and proceedings; • require extensive repair and restoration costs for additional security measures to avert future attacks; • impair our reputation and limit our competitiveness for future opportunities; and • impact our financial and accounting systems and, subsequently, our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. We have implemented measures to help prevent unauthorized access to our systems and facilities, including certain measures to comply with mandatory regulatory reliability standards. To date, cyber-attacks have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results. We continue to assess potential threats and vulnerabilities and make investments to address them, including global monitoring of networks and systems, identifying and implementing new technology, improving user awareness through employee security training, and updating our security policies as well as those for third-party providers. We cannot guarantee the extent to which our security measures will prevent future cyber-attacks and security breaches or that our insurance coverage will adequately cover any losses we may experience. Further, we do not control certain of joint ventures or our equity method investments and cannot guarantee that their efforts will be effective. Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and hydrology. Our businesses are affected by variations in general weather patterns and unusually severe weather. Our businesses forecast electric sales based on best available information and expectations for weather, which represents a long-term historical average. While we also consider possible variations in normal weather patterns and potential impacts on our facilities and our businesses, there can be no assurance that such planning can prevent these impacts, which can adversely affect our business. Generally, demand for electricity peaks in winter and summer. Typically, when winters are warmer than expected and summers are cooler than expected, demand for energy is lower, resulting in less demand for electricity than forecasted. Significant variations from normal weather where our businesses are located could have a material impact on our results of operations. Changes in weather can also affect the production of electricity at power generation facilities, including, but not limited to, our wind and solar facilities. For example, the level of wind resource affects the revenue produced by wind generation facilities. Because the levels of wind and solar resources are variable and difficult to predict, our results of operations for individual wind and solar facilities specifically, and our results of operations generally, may vary significantly from period to period, depending on the level of available resources. To the extent that resources are not available at planned levels, the financial results from these facilities may be less than expected. In addition, we are dependent upon hydrological conditions prevailing from time to time in the broad geographic regions in which our hydroelectric generation facilities are located. Changes in temperature, precipitation and snow pack conditions also could affect the amount and timing of hydroelectric generation. To the extent that hydrological conditions result in droughts or other conditions negatively affect our hydroelectric generation business, such as has happened in Panama in 2019 and Brazil in 2021, our results of operations can be materially adversely affected. Additionally, our contracts in certain markets where hydroelectric facilities are prevalent may require us to purchase power in the spot markets when our facilities are unable to operate at anticipated levels and the price of such spot power may increase substantially in times of low hydrology. Severe weather and natural disasters may present significant risks to our business. Weather conditions directly influence the demand for electricity and natural gas and other fuels and affect the price of energy and energy-related commodities. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, icing events, earthquakes, dam failures and tsunamis can be destructive and could prevent us from operating our business in the normal course by causing power outages and property damage, reducing revenue, affecting the availability of fuel and water, causing injuries and loss of life, and requiring us to incur additional costs, for example, to restore service and repair damaged facilities, to obtain replacement power and to access available financing sources. Our power plants could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate produce unusual variations in temperature and weather patterns, resulting in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, including heatwaves, fewer cold temperature extremes, abnormal levels of precipitation resulting in river and coastal urban floods in North America or reduced water availability and increased flooding across Central and South America, and changes in coast lines due to sea level change. Depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; releases of natural gas, natural gas odorant, or other greenhouse gases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. Such incidents may also impact our business partners, supply chains and transportation, which could negatively impact construction projects and our ability to provide electricity and natural gas to our customers. A disruption or failure of electric generation, transmission or distribution systems or natural gas production, transmission, storage or distribution systems in the event of a hurricane, tornado or other severe weather event, or otherwise, could prevent us from operating our business in the normal course and could result in any of the adverse consequences described above. At our businesses where cost recovery is available, recovery of costs to restore service and repair damaged facilities is or may be subject to regulatory approval, and any determination by the regulator not to permit timely and full recovery of the costs incurred. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. We do not control certain aspects of our joint ventures or our equity method investments. We have invested in some joint ventures in which our subsidiaries share operational, management, investment and/or other control rights with our joint venture partners. In many cases, we may exert influence over the joint venture pursuant to a management contract, by holding positions on the board of the joint venture company or on management committees and/or through certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions. However, we do not always have this type of influence over the project or business and we may be dependent on our joint venture partners or the management team of the joint venture to operate, manage, invest or otherwise control such projects or businesses. Our joint venture partners or the management team of our joint ventures may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects or businesses optimally, and they may not share our business priorities. In some joint venture agreements in which we do have majority control of the voting securities, we have entered into shareholder agreements granting minority rights to the other shareholders. The approval of joint venture partners also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from jointly owned entities or to transfer our interest in projects or businesses. The control or influence exerted by our joint venture partners may result in operational management and/or investment decisions that are different from the decisions we would make and could impact the profitability and value of these joint ventures. In addition, if a joint venture partner becomes insolvent or bankrupt or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations to or share of liabilities for the joint venture, we may be responsible for meeting certain obligations of the joint ventures to the extent provided for in our governing documents or applicable law. Further, we have a significant equity method investment in Fluence. As a publicly listed company, Fluence is governed by its own Board of Directors, whose members have fiduciary duties to the Fluence shareholders. While we have certain rights to appoint representatives to the Fluence Board of Directors, the interests of the Fluence shareholders, as represented by the Fluence Board of Directors, may not align with our interests or the interests of our securityholders. As of December 31, 2023, Fluence continues to report that a material weakness in its internal control over revenue recognition and related inventory has not yet been remediated. Such material weakness can impact the reliability of the Fluence financial information that we may include as part of our financial information. In addition, we are generally dependent on the management team of our equity method investments to operate and control such projects or businesses. While we may exert influence pursuant to having positions on the boards of such investments and/or through certain limited governance rights, such as rights to veto significant actions, we do not always have this type of influence and the scope and impact of such influence may be limited. The management teams of our equity method investments may not have the level of experience, technical expertise, human resources, management and other attributes necessary to operate these projects or businesses optimally, and they may not share our business priorities, which could have a material adverse effect on value of such investments as well as our growth, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may impact our financial results and position. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity's functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of several of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies where our foreign subsidiaries report could cause significant fluctuations in our results. In addition, while our foreign operations expenses are generally denominated in the same currency as corresponding sales, we have transaction exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in the subsidiary's functional currency. Moreover, the costs of doing business abroad may increase as a result of adverse exchange rate fluctuations. We may not be adequately hedged against our exposure to changes in commodity prices or interest rates. We routinely enter into contracts to hedge a portion of our purchase and sale commitments for electricity, fuel requirements and other commodities to lower our financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations. As part of this strategy, we routinely utilize fixed price or indexed forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. We also enter into contracts which help us manage our interest rate exposure. However, we may not cover the entire exposure of our assets or positions to market price or interest rate volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Furthermore, the risk management practices we have in place may not always perform as planned. In particular, if prices of commodities or interest rates significantly deviate from historical prices or interest rates or if the price or interest rate volatility or distribution of these changes deviates from historical norms, our risk management practices may not protect us from significant losses. As a result, fluctuating commodity prices or interest rates may negatively impact our financial results to the extent we have unhedged or inadequately hedged positions. In addition, certain types of economic hedging activities may not qualify for hedge accounting under U.S. GAAP, resulting in increased volatility in our net income. The Company may also suffer losses associated with "basis risk," which is the difference in performance between the hedge instrument and the underlying exposure (usually the pricing node of the generation facility). Furthermore, there is a risk that the current counterparties to these arrangements may fail or are unable to perform part or all of their obligations under these arrangements, while we seek to protect against that by utilizing strong credit requirements and exchange trades, these protections may not fully cover the exposure in the event of a counterparty default. For our businesses with PPA pricing that does not completely pass through our fuel costs, the businesses attempt to manage the exposure through flexible fuel purchasing and timing of entry and terms of our fuel supply agreements; however, these risk management efforts may not be successful and the resulting commodity exposure could have a material impact on these businesses and/or our results of operations. Our utilities businesses may experience slower growth in customers or in customer usage. Customer growth and customer usage in our utilities businesses are affected by external factors, including mandated energy efficiency measures, demand side management requirements, and economic and demographic conditions, such as population changes, job and income growth, housing starts, new business formation and the overall level of economic activity. A lack of growth, or a decline, in the number of customers or in customer demand for electricity may cause us to not realize the anticipated benefits from significant investments and expenditures and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Some of our subsidiaries participate in defined benefit pension plans and their net pension plan obligations may require additional significant contributions. We have 28 defined benefit plans, five at U.S. subsidiaries and the remaining plans at foreign subsidiaries, which cover substantially all of the employees at these subsidiaries. Pension costs are based upon a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets, the expected life span of pension plan beneficiaries and the discount rate used to determine the present value of future pension obligations. Any of these assumptions could prove to be incorrect, resulting in a shortfall of pension plan assets compared to pension obligations under the pension plan. We periodically evaluate the value of the pension plan assets to ensure that they will be sufficient to fund the respective pension obligations. Downturns in the debt and/or equity markets, or the inaccuracy of any of our significant assumptions underlying the estimates of our subsidiaries' pension plan obligations, could result in a material increase in pension expense and future funding requirements. Our subsidiaries that participate in these plans are responsible for satisfying the funding requirements required by law in their respective jurisdictions for any shortfall of pension plan assets as compared to pension obligations under the pension plan, which may necessitate additional cash contributions to the pension plans that could adversely affect our and our subsidiaries' liquidity. See Item 7.— and Note 15— included in Item 8.— . Impairment of long-lived assets would negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth. Long-lived assets are initially recorded at cost or fair value, are depreciated over their estimated useful lives, and are evaluated for impairment only when impairment indicators are present, such as deterioration in general economic conditions or our operating or regulatory environment; increased competitive environment; lower forecasted revenue; increase in fuel costs, particularly costs that we are unable to pass through to customers; increase in environmental compliance costs; negative or declining cash flows; loss of a key contract or customer, particularly when we are unable to replace it on equally favorable terms; developments in our strategy; divestiture of a significant component of our business; or adverse actions or assessments by a regulator. Any impairment of long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Risks associated with Governmental Regulation and Laws Our operations are subject to significant government regulation and could be adversely affected by changes in the law or regulatory schemes. Our ability to predict, influence or respond appropriately to changes in law or regulatory schemes, including obtaining expected or contracted increases in electricity tariff or contract rates or tariff adjustments for increased expenses, could adversely impact our results of operations. Furthermore, changes in laws or regulations or changes in the application or interpretation of regulatory provisions in jurisdictions where we operate, particularly at our utilities where electricity tariffs are subject to regulatory review or approval, could adversely affect our business, including: • changes in the determination, definition or classification of costs to be included as reimbursable or pass-through costs to be included in the rates we charge our customers, including but not limited to costs incurred to upgrade our power plants to comply with more stringent environmental regulations; • changes in the determination of an appropriate rate of return on invested capital or that a utility's operating income or the rates it charges customers are too high, resulting in a rate reduction or consumer rebates; • changes in the definition or determination of controllable or non-controllable costs; • changes in tax law; • changes in law or regulation that limit or otherwise affect the ability of our counterparties (including sovereign or private parties) to fulfill their obligations (including payment obligations) to us; • changes in environmental law that impose additional costs or limit the dispatch of our generating facilities; • changes in the definition of events that qualify as changes in economic equilibrium; • changes in the timing of tariff increases; • other changes in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions; • other changes related to licensing or permitting which affect our ability to conduct business; or • other changes that impact the short- or long-term price-setting mechanism in the our markets. Furthermore, in many countries where we conduct business, the regulatory environment is constantly changing and it may be difficult to predict the impact of the regulations on our businesses. The impacts described above could also result from our efforts to comply with European Market Infrastructure Regulation, which includes regulations related to the trading, reporting and clearing of derivatives and similar regulations may be passed in other jurisdictions where we conduct business. Any of the above events may result in lower operating margins and financial results for the affected businesses. Several of our businesses are subject to potentially significant remediation expenses, enforcement initiatives, private party lawsuits and reputational risk associated with CCR. CCR generated at our current and former coal-fired generation plant sites, is currently handled and/or has been handled by: placement in onsite CCR ponds; disposal and beneficial use in onsite and offsite permitted, engineered landfills; use in various beneficial use applications, including encapsulated uses and structural fill; and used in permitted offsite mine reclamation. CCR currently remains onsite at several of our facilities, including in CCR ponds. The EPA's final CCR rule provides that enforcement actions can be commenced by the EPA, states, or territories, and private lawsuits. Compliance with the U.S. federal CCR rule; amendments to the federal CCR rule; or federal, state, territory, or foreign rules or programs addressing CCR may require us to incur substantial costs. In addition, the Company and our businesses may face CCR-related lawsuits in the United States and/or internationally that may expose us to unexpected potential liabilities. Furthermore, CCR-related litigation may also expose us to unexpected costs. In addition, CCR, and its production at several of our facilities, have been the subject of significant interest from environmental non-governmental organizations and have received national and local media attention. The direct and indirect effects of such media attention, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may divert management time and attention. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Some of our U.S. businesses are subject to the provisions of various laws and regulations administered by FERC, NERC and by state utility commissions that can have a material effect on our operations. The AES Corporation is a registered electric utility holding company under the PUHCA 2005 as enacted as part of the EPAct 2005. PUHCA 2005 eliminated many of the restrictions that had been in place under the U.S. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, while continuing to provide FERC and state utility commissions with enhanced access to the books and records of certain utility holding companies. PUHCA 2005 also creates additional potential challenges and opportunities. By removing some barriers to mergers and other potential combinations, the creation of large, geographically dispersed utility holding companies is more likely. These entities may have enhanced financial strength and therefore an increased ability to compete with us in the U.S. FERC strongly encourages competition in wholesale electric markets. Increased market participation may have the effect of lowering our operating margins. Among other steps, FERC has encouraged RTOs and ISOs to develop demand response bidding programs as a mechanism for responding to peak electric demand and has also encouraged the integration of distributed energy resources. These programs may reduce the value of generation assets, particularly utility-scale projects. FERC is also encouraging the construction of new transmission infrastructure in accordance with provisions of EPAct 2005. Although new transmission lines may increase market opportunities, they may also increase the competition in our existing markets. Additionally, the market rules in the wholesale electric markets in which we operate continue to evolve in response to, among other things, increasing penetration by renewable energy resources and energy storage systems. For example, some wholesale electric market regions have either implemented or are considering changes to how resource adequacy or capacity attributes are allocated to intermittent generating resources. These changes could result in lower resource adequacy or capacity attribute revenues for our renewable generating facilities in these regions. FERC has civil penalty authority over violations of any provision of Part II of the FPA, which concerns wholesale generation or transmission, as well as any rule or order issued thereunder. The FPA also provides for the assessment of criminal fines and imprisonment for violations under the FPA. This penalty authority was enhanced in EPAct 2005. As a result, FERC is authorized to assess a maximum penalty authority established by statute and such penalty authority has been and will continue to be adjusted periodically to account for inflation. With this expanded enforcement authority, violations of the FPA and FERC's regulations could potentially have more serious consequences than in the past. Pursuant to EPAct 2005, the NERC has been certified by FERC as the Electric Reliability Organization ("ERO") to develop mandatory and enforceable electric system reliability standards applicable throughout the U.S. to improve the overall reliability of the electric grid. These standards are subject to FERC review and approval. Once approved, the reliability standards may be enforced by FERC independently, or, alternatively, by the ERO and regional reliability organizations with responsibility for auditing, investigating and otherwise ensuring compliance with reliability standards, subject to FERC oversight. Violations of NERC reliability standards are subject to FERC's penalty authority under the FPA and EPAct 2005. Our U.S. utility businesses face significant regulation by their respective state utility commissions. The regulatory discretion is reasonably broad in both Indiana and Ohio and includes regulation as to services and facilities, the valuation of property, the construction, purchase, or lease of electric generating facilities, the classification of accounts, rates of depreciation, the increase or decrease in retail rates and charges, the issuance of certain securities, the acquisition and sale of some public utility properties or securities and certain other matters. These businesses face the risk of unexpected or adverse regulatory action which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. See Item 1. — . Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our businesses are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations by many federal, regional, state and local authorities, international treaties and foreign governmental authorities. These laws and regulations generally concern emissions into the air, effluents into the water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, endangered species and noise regulation. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations or to obtain or comply with any associated environmental permits could result in fines or other sanctions. For example, in recent years, the EPA has issued NOVs to a number of coal-fired generating plants alleging wide-spread violations of the new source review and prevention of significant deterioration provisions of the CAA. The EPA has brought suit against and obtained settlements with many companies for allegedly making major modifications to a coal-fired generating units without proper permit approvals and without installing best available control technology. The primary focus of these NOVs has been emissions of SO 2 and NO x and the EPA has imposed fines and required companies to install improved pollution control technologies to reduce such emissions. In addition, state regulatory agencies and non-governmental environmental organizations have pursued civil lawsuits against power plants in situations that have resulted in judgments and/or settlements requiring the installation of expensive pollution controls or the accelerated retirement of certain electric generating units. Furthermore, Congress and other domestic and foreign governmental authorities have either considered or implemented various laws and regulations to restrict or tax certain emissions, particularly those involving air emissions and water discharges. These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on the operation of our power plants. See Item 1.— . We have incurred and will continue to incur significant capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations. Changes in, or new development of, environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates. There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers or that our business, financial condition, including recorded asset values or results of operations, would not be materially and adversely affected. Concerns about GHG emissions and the potential risks associated with climate change have led to increased regulation and other actions that could impact our businesses. International, federal and various regional and state authorities regulate GHG emissions and have created financial incentives to reduce them. In 2023, the Company's subsidiaries operated businesses that had total CO 2 emissions of approximately 34 million metric tonnes, approximately 11 million of which were emitted by our U.S. businesses (both figures are ownership adjusted). The Company uses CO 2 emission estimation methodologies supported by "The Greenhouse Gas Protocol" reporting standard on GHG emissions. For existing power generation plants, CO 2 emissions data are either obtained directly from plant continuous emission monitoring systems or calculated from actual fuel heat inputs and fuel type CO 2 emission factors. This estimate is based on a number of projections and assumptions that may prove to be incorrect, such as the forecasted dispatch, anticipated plant efficiency, fuel type, CO 2 emissions rates and our subsidiaries' achieving completion of such construction and development projects. While actual emissions may vary substantially; certain projects under construction or development when completed will increase emissions of our portfolio and therefore could increase the risks associated with regulation of GHG emissions. There currently is no U.S. federal legislation imposing mandatory GHG emission reductions (including for CO 2 ) that affects our electric power generation facilities; however, in 2015, the EPA promulgated a rule establishing New Source Performance Standards for CO 2 emissions for newly constructed and modified/reconstructed fossil-fueled electric utility steam generating units larger than 25 MW and in 2018 proposed revisions to the rule. On May 23, 2023, the EPA published a proposed rule that would establish CO 2 emissions limits for certain new fossil-fuel fired stationary combustion turbines that commence construction or are modified after May 23, 2023. In 2019, the EPA promulgated the Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) Rule which would have replaced the EPA's 2015 Clean Power Plan Rule ("CPP"). However, on January 19, 2021, the D.C. Circuit vacated and remanded the ACE Rule. Subsequently, on June 30, 2022, the Supreme Court reversed the judgment of the D.C. Circuit Court and remanded for further proceedings consistent with its opinion, holding that the “generation shifting” approach in the CPP exceeded the authority granted to the EPA by Congress under Section 111(d) of the CAA. As a result of the June 30, 2022 Supreme Court decision, on October 27, 2022, the D.C. Circuit issued a partial mandate, holding pending challenges to the ACE Rule in abeyance. On May 23, 2023, the EPA published a proposed rule that would vacate the ACE Rule, establish emissions guidelines in the form of CO 2 emissions limitations for certain existing EGUs and would require states to develop State Plans that establish standards of performance for such EGUs that are at least as stringent as the EPA’s emissions guidelines. Depending on various EGU-specific factors, the bases of proposed emissions guidelines range from routine methods of operation to carbon capture and sequestration or co-firing low-GHG hydrogen starting in the 2030s. The impact of the results of further proceedings and potential future greenhouse gas emissions regulations remains uncertain, but it could be material. In 2010, the EPA adopted regulations pertaining to GHG emissions that require new and existing sources of GHG emissions to potentially obtain new source review permits from the EPA prior to construction or modification. In 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that such permitting would only be required if such sources also must obtain a new source review permit for increases in other regulated pollutants. For further discussion of the regulation of GHG emissions, see Item 1. — above. The Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change's Paris Agreement established a long-term goal of keeping the increase in global average temperature well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels. We anticipate that the Paris Agreement will continue the trend toward efforts to decarbonize the global economy and to further limit GHG emissions. The impact of GHG regulation on our operations will depend on a number of factors, including the degree and timing of GHG emissions reductions required under any such legislation or regulation, the cost of emissions reduction equipment and the price and availability of offsets, the extent to which market based compliance options are available, the extent to which our subsidiaries would be entitled to receive GHG emissions allowances without having to purchase them in an auction or on the open market and the impact of such legislation or regulation on the ability of our subsidiaries to recover costs incurred through rate increases or otherwise. The costs of compliance could be substantial. Our non-utility, generation subsidiaries seek to pass on any costs arising from CO 2 emissions to contract counterparties. Likewise, our utility subsidiaries seek to pass on any costs arising from CO 2 emissions to customers. However, there can be no assurance that we will effectively pass such costs onto the contract counterparties or customers, respectively, or that the cost and burden associated with any dispute over which party bears such costs would not be burdensome and costly. Furthermore, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, physical risks from climate change could include, but are not limited to, increased runoff and earlier spring peak discharge in many glacier and snow-fed rivers, warming of lakes and rivers, an increase in sea level, and changes and variability in precipitation and in the intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Physical impacts may have the potential to significantly affect our business and operations. For example, extreme weather events could result in increased downtime and operation and maintenance costs at our electric power transmission and distribution assets and facilities. Variations in weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity, would also be expected to affect the energy needs of customers. A decrease in energy consumption could decrease our revenues. In addition, while revenues would be expected to increase if the energy consumption of customers increased, such increase could prompt the need for additional investment in generation capacity. In addition to government regulators, many groups, including politicians, environmentalists, the investor community and other private parties have expressed increasing concern about GHG emissions. New regulation, such as the initiatives in Chile and the Puerto Rico Energy Public Policy Act, may adversely affect our operations. See Item 7. — . Responding to these decarbonization initiatives, including developments in our strategy in line with these initiatives may present challenges to our business. We may be unable to develop our renewables platform as quickly as anticipated. Further, we may be unable to dispose of coal-fired generation assets at anticipated prices, the estimated useful lives of these assets may decrease, and the value of such assets may be impaired. These initiatives could also result in the early retirement of coal-fired generation facilities, which could result in stranded costs if regulators disallow full recovery of investments. Negative public perception of our GHG emissions could have an adverse effect on our relationships with third parties, our ability to attract additional customers, our business development opportunities, and our ability to access finance and insurance for our coal-fired generation assets. In addition, plaintiffs previously brought tort lawsuits that were dismissed against the Company because of its subsidiaries' GHG emissions. Future similar lawsuits may prevail or result in damages awards or other relief. We may also be subject to risks associated with the impact on weather conditions. See Certain of our businesses are sensitive to variations in weather and hydrology and Severe weather and natural disasters may present significant risks to our business and adversely affect our financial results within this section for more information. If any of the foregoing risks materialize, costs may increase or revenues may decrease and there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition,cash flows and reputation. Concerns about data privacy have led to increased regulation and other actions that could impact our businesses. In the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identifiable information about customers, employees, customer energy usage and other information as well as information regarding business partners and other third parties, some of which may constitute confidential information. The theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data collected by us can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm o ur reputation. Although we maintain technical and organizational measures to protect personal identifiable information and other confidential information, breaches of, or disruptions to, our information technology systems could result in legal claims, liability or penalties under privacy laws or damage to operations or to the company's reputation, which could adversely affect our business. We are also subject to various data privacy and security laws and regulations globally, as well as contractual requirements, as a result of having access to and processing confidential and personal identifiable information in the course of business. If we are unable to comply with applicable laws and regulations or with our contractual commitments, as well as maintain reliable information technology systems and appropriate controls with respect to privacy and security requirements, we may suffer regulatory consequences that could be costly or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, any actual or perceived failure on the part of one of our equity affiliates could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and prospects. Tax legislation initiatives or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect us. We operate in the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions and are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and of many non-U.S. jurisdictions. From time to time, legislative measures may be enacted that could adversely impact our overall tax positions regarding income or other taxes, our effective tax rate or tax payments. For example, in the third quarter of 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (the “IRA”) was signed into law in the United States. The IRA includes provisions that are expected to benefit the U.S. clean energy industry, including increases, extensions and/or new tax credits for onshore and offshore wind, solar, storage and hydrogen projects. We expect that the extension of the current solar investment tax credits ("ITCs"), as well as higher credits available for projects that satisfy wage and apprenticeship requirements, will increase demand for our renewables products. In the U.S., the IRA includes a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax based on adjusted financial statement income. In the fourth quarter of 2022, the European Commission adopted an amended Directive on Pillar 2 establishing a global minimum tax at a 15% rate. The adoption requires EU Member States to transpose the Directive into their respective national laws by December 31, 2023 for the rules to come into effect as of January 1, 2024. During 2023, the Netherlands, Bulgaria, and Vietnam adopted legislation to implement Pillar 2 effective as of January 1, 2024. We will continue to monitor the issuance of draft legislation in other non-EU countries where the Company operates that are considering Pillar 2 amendments. The impact to the Company remains unknown but may be material. Risks Related to our Indebtedness and Financial Condition We have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $27 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis. All outstanding borrowings under The AES Corporation's revolving credit facility are unsecured. Most of the debt of The AES Corporation's subsidiaries, however, is secured by substantially all of the assets of those subsidiaries. A substantial portion of cash flow from operations must be used to make payments on our debt. Furthermore, since a significant percentage of our assets are used to secure this debt, this reduces the amount of collateral available for future secured debt or credit support and reduces our flexibility in operating these secured assets. This level of indebtedness and related security could have other consequences, including: • making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse industry and economic conditions, including adverse changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices; • reducing available cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; and • limiting, along with financial and other restrictive covenants relating to such indebtedness, our ability to borrow additional funds, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. The agreements governing our indebtedness, including the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, limit, but do not prohibit the incurrence of additional indebtedness. If we were to become more leveraged, the risks described above would increase. Further, our actual cash requirements may be greater than expected and our cash flows may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due. In that event, we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, raise equity or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms to refinance our debt as it becomes due. In addition, our ability to refinance existing or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. Any refinancing of our debt could result in higher interest rates or more onerous covenants that restrict our business operations. See Note 11 — included in Item 8. — for a schedule of our debt maturities. The AES Corporation's ability to make payments on its outstanding indebtedness is dependent upon the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries. The AES Corporation is a holding company with no material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries. Almost all of The AES Corporation's cash flow is generated by the operating activities of its subsidiaries. Therefore, The AES Corporation's ability to make payments on its indebtedness and to fund its other obligations is dependent not only on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate cash, but also on the ability of the subsidiaries to distribute cash to it in the form of dividends, fees, interest, tax sharing payments, loans or otherwise.Our subsidiaries face various restrictions in their ability to distribute cash. Most of the subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to loan agreements, indentures or non-recourse financing arrangements, to satisfy certain restricted payment covenants or other conditions before they may make distributions. Business performance and local accounting and tax rules may also limit dividend distributions. Subsidiaries in foreign countries may also be prevented from distributing funds as a result of foreign governments restricting the repatriation of funds or the conversion of currencies. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, unless they have expressly guaranteed The AES Corporation's indebtedness, have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to such debt or to make any funds available whether by dividends, fees, loans or other payments. Existing and potential future defaults by subsidiaries or affiliates could adversely affect us. We attempt to finance our domestic and foreign projects through non-recourse debt or "non-recourse financing" that requires the loans to be repaid solely from the project's revenues and provide that the repayment of the loans (and interest thereon) is secured solely by the capital stock, physical assets, contracts and cash flow of that project subsidiary or affiliate. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $27 billion of outstanding indebtedness on a consolidated basis, of which approximately $4.5 billion was recourse debt of the Parent Company and approximately $22.1 billion was non-recourse debt. In some non-recourse financings, the Parent Company has explicitly agreed, in the form of guarantees, indemnities, letters of credit, letter of credit reimbursement agreements and agreements to pay, to undertake certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities, most of which will only be effective or will be terminated upon the occurrence of future events. In the case of our U.S. renewables projects involving tax equity investors or purchasers of tax credits, we provide customary Parent Company or subsidiary guarantees to the tax equity investors or tax credit purchasers that require the Parent Company or subsidiary to bear the risk of any IRS recapture or disallowance of certain tax benefits they receive in connection with the transaction. Certain of our subsidiaries are in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total debt classified as current in our Consolidated Balance Sheets related to such defaults was $325 million as of December 31, 2023. While the lenders under our non-recourse financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, such defaults under non-recourse financings can: • reduce the Parent Company's receipt of subsidiary dividends, fees, interest payments, loans and other sources of cash because a subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the Parent Company during the pendency of any default; • trigger The AES Corporation's obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; • trigger defaults in the Parent Company's outstanding debt. For example, The AES Corporation's revolving credit facility and outstanding senior notes include events of default for certain bankruptcy related events involving material subsidiaries and relating to accelerations of outstanding material debt of material subsidiaries or any subsidiaries that in the aggregate constitute a material subsidiary; or • result in foreclosure on the assets that are pledged under the non-recourse financings, resulting in write-downs of assets and eliminating any and all potential future benefits derived from those assets. None of the projects that are in default are owned by subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, meet the applicable standard of materiality in The AES Corporation's revolving credit facility or other debt agreements to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under such indebtedness. However, as a result of future mix of distributions, write-down of assets, dispositions and other changes to our financial position and results of operations, one or more of these subsidiaries, individually or in the aggregate, could fall within the applicable standard of materiality and thereby upon an acceleration of such subsidiary's debt, trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of Parent Company indebtedness. The AES Corporation has significant cash requirements and limited sources of liquidity. The AES Corporation requires cash primarily to fund: principal repayments of debt, interest, dividends on our common stock, acquisitions, construction and other project commitments, other equity commitments (including business development investments); equity repurchases; taxes and Parent Company overhead costs. Our principal sources of liquidity are: dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, proceeds from financings at the Parent Company, and proceeds from asset sales. See Item 7.— . We believe that these sources will be adequate to meet our obligations for the foreseeable future, based on a number of material assumptions about access the capital or commercial lending markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, exchange rates, our ability to sell assets, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and other distributions; however, there can be no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. In addition, our cash flow may not be sufficient to repay our debt obligations at maturity and we may have to refinance such obligations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such refinancing on acceptable terms. Our ability to grow our business depends on our ability to raise capital on favorable terms. We rely on the capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by operating cash flows. Our ability to arrange for financing on either a recourse or non-recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: general economic and capital market conditions; the availability of bank credit; the availability of tax equity investors; the financial condition, performance and prospects of AES as well as our competitors; and changes in tax and securities laws. Should access to capital not be available to us, we may have to sell assets or cease further investments, including the expansion or improvement of existing facilities, any of which would affect our future growth. A downgrade in the credit ratings of The AES Corporation or its subsidiaries could adversely affect our access to the capital markets, interest expense, liquidity or cash flow. If any of the credit ratings of the The AES Corporation and its subsidiaries were to be downgraded, our ability to raise capital on favorable terms could be impaired and our borrowing costs could increase. Furthermore, counterparties may no longer be willing to accept general unsecured commitments by The AES Corporation to provide credit support. Accordingly, we may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit and/or collateral, to backstop or replace any credit support by The AES Corporation, which reduces our available credit. There can be no assurance that counterparties will accept such guarantees or other assurances. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price and trading volumes of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to factors including general economic conditions, conditions in our industry and our markets, environmental and economic developments, and general credit and capital markets conditions, as well as developments specific to us, including risks described in this section, failing to meet our publicly announced guidance or key trends and other matters described in Item 7.— .

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

For discussion of the Company's year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, refer to Item 7. —Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Exhibit 99.1 of the Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 8, 2023. Executive Summary In 2023, AES delivered on its strategic and financial objectives. We completed construction or the acquisition of 3.5 GW of renewables and energy storage, and signed long-term PPAs for an additional 5.6 GW of new renewable energy. See Overview of our Strategy included in Item 1.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Compared with last year, net loss decreased $323 million, from $505 million to $182 million primarily as a result of favorable contributions at the Utilities, New Energy Technologies, and Renewables SBUs, partially offset by lower contributions from LNG transactions versus 2022 at the Energy Infrastructure SBU. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP measure, decreased $119 million, from $2,931 million to $2,812 million, mainly driven by favorable LNG transactions in the prior year, lower contract prices, and higher fixed costs at the Energy Infrastructure SBU; partially offset by favorable weather conditions and new businesses at the Renewables SBU, higher contributions at the Utilities SBU due to the deferral of purchased power costs, higher revenues under a PPA termination agreement at the Energy Infrastructure SBU, and lower losses from affiliates at the New Energy Technologies SBU due to improved margins on a new product line. Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes, a non-GAAP measure, increased $225 million, from $3,198 million to $3,423 million, primarily due to higher realized tax attributes driven by more renewables projects placed in service, as well as impact from the drivers above. Compared with last year, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $1.16, from a loss of $0.82 in 2022 to earnings of $0.34 in 2023. This increase is mainly driven by lower goodwill impairments in the current year, higher contributions from renewables projects placed in service in the current year, the current year gain on sale of shares in Fluence, and higher contributions at the Utilities SBU due to the deferral of purchased power costs; partially offset by lower contributions from LNG transactions versus 2022, and higher unrealized foreign currency losses at the Energy Infrastructure SBU. Adjusted EPS, a non-GAAP measure, increased $0.09 from $1.67 to $1.76, mainly driven by higher contributions from renewables projects placed in service in the current year, higher contributions at the Utilities SBU, and lower losses of affiliates at the New Energy Technologies SBU; partially offset by lower contributions from the Energy Infrastructure SBU and higher Parent Company interest. Review of Consolidated Results of Operations Components of Revenue, Cost of Sales and Operating Margin — Revenue includes revenue earned from the sale of energy from our utilities and the production and sale of energy from our generation plants, which are classified as regulated and non-regulated, respectively, on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Revenue also includes the gains or losses on derivatives associated with the sale of electricity. Cost of sales includes costs incurred directly by the businesses in the ordinary course of business. Examples include electricity and fuel purchases, operations and maintenance costs, depreciation and amortization expenses, bad debt expense and recoveries, and general administrative and support costs (including employee-related costs directly associated with the operations of the business). Cost of sales also includes the gains or losses on derivatives (including embedded derivatives other than foreign currency embedded derivatives) associated with the purchase of electricity or fuel. Operating margin is defined as revenue less cost of sales. Consolidated Revenue and Operating Margin Year Ended December 31, 2023 Revenue (in millions) Consolidated Revenue — Revenue increased $51 million in 2023 compared to 2022, driven by: • $446 million at Renewables driven by higher spot sales at higher prices, and new projects placed in service; partially offset by unrealized derivative losses; and • $73 million at New Energy Technologies mainly driven by the sale of the Fallbrook project in March 2023. These favorable impacts were partially offset by decreases of: • $368 million at Energy Infrastructure driven by prior year favorable LNG transactions, lower contract energy sales due to lower prices, lower CO 2 purchases passed through due to lower production, lower generation, and the impact of the devaluation of the Argentine peso; partially offset by unrealized gains resulting mainly from derivatives as part of our commercial hedging strategy, and higher revenues due to a PPA termination agreement; and • $122 million at Utilities mainly driven by lower demand due to milder weather in Indiana and Ohio; partially offset by higher TDSIC rider and transmission revenues, and higher demand due to extreme heat in El Salvador. Operating Margin (in millions) Consolidated Operating Margin — Operating margin decreased $44 million, or 2%, in 2023 compared to 2022, driven by: • $117 million at Energy Infrastructure primarily driven by prior year favorable LNG transactions, lower contract energy sales due to lower prices, lower dispatch driven by lower demand, higher fixed costs, and a prior year one-time revenue recognition driven by a reduction in a project's expected completion costs; partially offset by unrealized gains resulting mainly from derivatives as part of our commercial hedging strategy, and higher revenues due to a PPA termination agreement; and • $36 million at Renewables mainly driven by higher fixed costs due to an accelerated growth plan and unrealized derivative losses; partially offset by new projects placed in service, better hydrology, and higher wind availability, resulting in higher renewable energy generation. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by increases of: • $57 million at Corporate and Other primarily driven by a decrease in reserve for losses and higher premiums earned by the AES self-insurance company; and • $54 million at Utilities primarily driven by the deferral of purchased power costs in the current year, which were recognized in the prior year, associated with the ESP 4 approval, an increase in transmission and TDSIC rider revenues, higher demand due to extreme heat in El Salvador, and a regulatory settlement in the prior year; partially offset by the impact of milder weather in Indiana and Ohio, and higher fixed costs. See Item 7. — of this Form 10-K for additional discussion and analysis of operating results for each SBU. Consolidated Results of Operations — Other General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses include expenses related to corporate staff functions and initiatives, executive management, finance, legal, human resources, and information systems, as well as global development costs. General and administrative expenses increased $48 million, or 23%, to $255 million in 2023 compared to $207 million in 2022, primarily due to increased business development activity. Interest expense Interest expense increased $202 million, or 18%, to $1.3 billion in 2023, compared to $1.1 billion in 2022, primarily due to new debt issued at the Renewables, Energy Infrastructure, and Utilities SBUs, and a higher weighted average interest rate and debt balance at the Parent Company; partially offset by higher capitalized interest at the Renewables SBU. Interest income Interest income increased $162 million, or 42%, to $551 million in 2023, compared to $389 million in 2022 primarily due to higher average interest rates and short-term investments at the Energy Infrastructure and Renewables SBUs and the Parent Company; partially offset by the prior year sales-type lease receivable adjustment at the Alamitos Energy Center. Loss on extinguishment of debt Loss on extinguishment of debt increased $48 million to $63 million in 2023, compared to $15 million in 2022. This increase was primarily due to losses of $ 47 million and $10 million due to prepayments at AES Andes and AES Hispanola Holdings BV, respectively, partially offset by a prior year refinancing at AES Renewable Holdings, resulting in a loss of $ 12 million. See Note 11— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Other income Other income decreased $13 million, or 13%, to $89 million in 2023, compared to $102 million in 2022 primarily due to the prior year gain on remeasurement of our existing investment in 5B, which is accounted for using the measurement alternative, and the prior year insurance proceeds primarily associated with property damage at TermoAndes; partially offset by the current year gain on remeasurement of contingent consideration at AES Clean Energy. Other expense Other expense increased $31 million, or 46%, to $99 million in 2023, compared to $68 million in 2022 primarily driven by impairments of inventory due to planned early plant closures at Ventanas 2, Norgener, and Warrior Run, as well as higher losses on commencement of sales-type leases at AES Renewable Holdings; partially offset by the prior year costs related to the disposition of AES Gilbert, including the recognition of an allowance on the sales-type lease receivable. See Note 21— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Gain (loss) on disposal and sale of business interests Gain on disposal and sale of business interests was $134 million in 2023, primarily due to the gain on sale of shares of Fluence, our equity method investment, compared to a loss of $9 million in 2022. See Note 8— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Goodwill impairment expense Goodwill impairment expense was $12 million in 2023 due to a $ 12 million impairment at the TEG TEP reporting unit primarily driven by an increase in the discount rate due to increasing risk of non-renewal of operating permits required after March 31, 2024. Goodwill impairment expense was $777 million in 2022 due to a $ 644 million impairment at AES Andes and a $ 133 million impairment at AES El Salvador. This was due to the Company seeing increases in inputs utilized to derive the discount rate applied in our goodwill impairment analysis, such as higher interest rates and country risk premiums in certain markets. These changes to the inputs of our discount rate negatively impacted our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2022. See Note 9— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Asset impairment expense Asset impairment expense increased $304 million, or 40%, to $1.1 billion in 2023, compared to $763 million in 2022. This increase was primarily due to a $198 million impairment associated with PJM's approval to retire the Warrior Run coal-fired facility, a $186 million impairment at New York Wind related to a repowering project that will result in decommissioning the existing turbines and reducing their depreciable lives, a $167 million impairment at Mong Duong upon meeting the held-for-sale criteria, $151 million of impairments at AES Clean Energy Development primarily related to the write-off of project development intangibles for projects that were determined to be no longer viable, and a $137 million impairment associated with the commitment to accelerate the retirement of the Norgener coal-fired plant in Chile. This increase was partially offset by the $468 million impairment of Maritza's coal-fired plant in 2022 due to Bulgaria's commitment to cease electricity generation using coal as a fuel-source beyond 2038 and lower impairments at TEG and TEP in Mexico. See Note 22— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Foreign currency transaction losses Foreign currency transaction gains (losses) in millions were as follows: _____________________________ (1) Includes peso-denominated energy receivable indexed to the USD through the FONINVEMEM agreement which is considered a foreign currency derivative. See Note 7— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. (2) Includes losses of $28 million and $20 million on foreign currency derivative contracts for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The Company recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $359 million in 2023, primarily driven by the depreciation of the Argentine peso, unrealized losses related to an intercompany loan denominated in the Colombian peso, and realized and unrealized foreign currency derivative losses in South America due to the depreciating Colombian peso. The Company recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $77 million in 2022, primarily driven by the depreciation of the Argentine peso, partially offset by realized foreign currency derivative gains in South America due to the depreciating Colombian peso. Other non-operating expense There was no other non-operating expense in 2023. Other non-operating expense was $175 million in 2022 due to the other-than-temporary impairment of the sPower equity method investment. The impairment analysis was triggered by the signing of a purchase and sale agreement which, at the time, implied an expected loss upon sale of the Company's indirect interest in a portfolio of sPower's operating assets ("OpCo B"). The transaction closed on February 28, 2023. sPower primarily holds operating assets where the tax credits associated with underlying projects have already been allocated to tax equity investors. The application of HLBV accounting increases the carrying value of these investments, as earnings are initially disproportionately allocated to the sponsor entity. Since sPower does not have any ongoing development or other value creation activities following the transfer of these activities to AES Clean Energy Development, the impairment adjusts the carrying value to the fair market value of the operating assets. See Note 25— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information regarding the formation of AES Clean Energy Development. See Note 8— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Income tax benefit (expense) Income tax expense was $261 million in 2023 compared to $265 million in 2022. The Company's effective tax rates were 251% and (157)% for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The 2023 effective tax rate was impacted by noncontrolling interest in U.S. tax-equity partnerships and pretax impairments at certain Mexican subsidiaries and at the Mong Duong coal-fired plant in Vietnam. These impacts were partially offset by inflationary and foreign currency impacts at certain Argentine businesses, net of valuation allowances, as well as the recognition of U.S. investment tax credits for renewables projects placed in service this year. See Note 22— Asset Impairment Expense included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for details of the asset impairments. The 2022 effective tax rate was impacted by the nondeductible goodwill impairments at AES Andes and AES El Salvador, as well as the asset impairment of the Maritza coal-fired plant. These impacts were partially offset by favorable LNG transactions at the Energy Infrastructure SBU and inflationary and foreign currency impacts at certain Argentine businesses recognized in 2022. See Note 9— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for details of the goodwill impairments. See Note 22— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for details of the asset impairments. Our effective tax rate reflects the tax effect of significant operations outside the U.S., which are generally taxed at rates different than the U.S. statutory rate. Foreign earnings may be taxed at rates higher than the U.S. corporate rate of 21% and are also subject to current U.S. taxation under the GILTI rule. A future proportionate change in the composition of income before income taxes from foreign and domestic tax jurisdictions could impact our periodic effective tax rate. The Company also benefits from reduced tax rates in certain countries as a result of satisfying specific commitments regarding employment and capital investment. See Note 23— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these reduced rates. Net equity in losses of affiliates Net equity in losses of affiliates decreased $39 million, or 55%, to $32 million in 2023, compared to $71 million in 2022. This decrease was primarily driven by an increase in earnings from Mesa La Paz, primarily due the termination of unrealized derivatives due to a contract amendment, and by a decrease in losses from Fluence, mainly attributable to improved margins on a new product line and reduced shipping constraints and transportation costs. This decrease in losses was partially offset by lower earnings from sPower, mainly due to lower earnings from renewables projects that came online. See Note 8— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable stock of subsidiaries Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable stock of subsidiaries decreased $472 million to a $431 million loss in 2023, compared to income of $41 million in 2022. This decrease was primarily due to: • Increased costs associated with the growth of our business and higher allocation of losses to tax equity investors on projects placed in service at the Renewables SBU; • Impairment at Mong Duong upon meeting the held-for-sale criteria in the current year; • Prior year one-time revenue recognition driven by a reduction in a project's expected completion costs at the Energy Infrastructure SBU; and • Lower earnings from the Utilities SBU due to unfavorable weather conditions. These drivers were partially offset by: • Higher earnings from the Renewables SBU due to favorable weather conditions; and • Higher allocation of earnings at Southland Energy to noncontrolling interests. Net income (loss) attributable to The AES Corporation Net income attributable to The AES Corporation increased $795 million to $249 million in 2023, compared to a loss of $546 million in 2022. This increase was primarily due to: • Lower goodwill impairments in the current year; • Higher contributions from renewables projects placed in service in the current year; • Prior year other-than-temporary impairment of our investment in sPower; • Gain on sale of shares in Fluence in the current year; • Increase in interest income due to higher average interest rates and short term investments at the Energy Infrastructure and Renewables SBUs; • Higher earnings from the Utilities SBU due to the deferral of previously recognized purchased power costs and a prior year charge resulting from a regulatory settlement; and • Lower losses from affiliates at the New Energy Technologies SBU. These increases were partially offset by: • Higher unrealized foreign currency losses at the Energy Infrastructure SBU; • Higher long-lived asset impairments in the current year; • Lower earnings from the Energy Infrastructure SBU due to prior year favorable LNG transactions, lower contract energy sales due to lower prices, lower thermal dispatch, and higher fixed costs; and • Increase in interest expense due to higher interest rates and new debt issued at the Renewables and Energy Infrastructure SBUs, and a higher Parent Company weighted average interest rate. SBU Performance Analysis Segments We are organized into four technology-based SBUs: Renewables (solar, wind, energy storage, and hydro generation facilities); Utilities (AES Indiana, AES Ohio, and AES El Salvador regulated utilities and their generation facilities); Energy Infrastructure (natural gas, LNG, coal, pet coke, diesel, and oil generation facilities, and our businesses in Chile); and New Energy Technologies (green hydrogen initiatives and investments in Fluence, Uplight, and 5B). Our businesses in Chile, which have a mix of generation sources, including renewables, are also included within the Energy Infrastructure SBU, as the generation from all sources is pooled to service our existing PPAs. In our 2022 Form 10-K, the management reporting structure and the Company’s reportable segments were mainly organized by geographic regions. In March 2023, we announced internal management changes as a part of our ongoing strategy to align our business to meet our customers’ needs and deliver on our major strategic objectives. The results of our operations are now reported along our four newly formed technology-based SBUs. Non-GAAP Measures EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes, Adjusted PTC, and Adjusted EPS are non-GAAP supplemental measures that are used by management and external users of our Consolidated Financial Statements such as investors, industry analysts, and lenders. During the first quarter of 2023, management began assessing operational performance and making resource allocation decisions using Adjusted EBITDA. Therefore, the Company uses Adjusted EBITDA as its primary segment performance measure. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes are new non-GAAP supplemental measures reported beginning in the first quarter of 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company changed the definition of Adjusted EPS to remove the adjustment for tax benefit or expense related to the enactment effects of 2017 U.S. tax law reform and related regulations and any subsequent period adjustments related to enactment effects, including the 2021 tax benefit on reversal of uncertain tax positions effectively settled upon the closure of the Company's U.S. tax return exam . As this adjustment was specific to the impacts of tax law reform enacted in 2017, we believe removing this adjustment from our non-GAAP definition provides simplification and clarity for our investors. There were no such impacts in 2022 or 2023. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes We define EBITDA as earnings before interest income and expense, taxes, depreciation, and amortization. We define Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA adjusted for the impact of NCI and interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of our equity affiliates, adding back interest income recognized under service concession arrangements, and excluding gains or losses of both consolidated entities and entities accounted for under the equity method due to (a) unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions and equity securities; (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses; (c) gains, losses, benefits and costs associated with dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, including early plant closures, and gains and losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases; (d) losses due to impairments; (e) gains, losses and costs due to the early retirement of debt; and (f) net gains at Angamos, one of our businesses in the Energy Infrastructure SBU, associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence. In addition to the revenue and cost of sales reflected in Operating Margin, Adjusted EBITDA includes the other components of our Consolidated Statement of Operations, such as general and administrative expenses in Corporate and Other as well as business development costs, other expense and other income, realized foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and net equity in earnings of affiliates . We further define Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes as Adjusted EBITDA, adding back the pre-tax effect of Production Tax Credits (“PTCs”), Investment Tax Credits (“ITCs”), and depreciation tax deductions allocated to tax equity investors, as well as the tax benefit recorded from tax credits retained or transferred to third parties. The GAAP measure most comparable to EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes is Net income . We believe that EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes better reflect the underlying business performance of the Company. Adjusted EBITDA is the most relevant measure considered in the Company’s internal evaluation of the financial performance of its segments. Factors in this determination include the variability due to unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions or equity securities remeasurement, unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, losses due to impairments, strategic decisions to dispose of or acquire business interests or retire debt, the non-recurring nature of the impact of the early contract terminations at Angamos, and the variability of allocations of earnings to tax equity investors, which affect results in a given period or periods. In addition, each of these metrics represent the business performance of the Company before the application of statutory income tax rates and tax adjustments, including the effects of tax planning, corresponding to the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Given its large number of businesses and overall complexity, the Company concluded that Adjusted EBITDA is a more transparent measure than Net income that better assists investors in determining which businesses have the greatest impact on the Company’s results. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes should not be construed as alternatives to Net income , which is determined in accordance with GAAP. _____________________________ (1) The allocation of earnings and losses to tax equity investors from both consolidated entities and equity affiliates is removed from Adjusted EBITDA. (2) Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes includes the impact of the share of the ITCs, PTCs, and depreciation deductions allocated to tax equity investors under the HLBV accounting method and recognized as Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable stock of subsidiaries on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. It also includes the tax benefit recorded from tax credits retained or transferred to third parties. The tax attributes are related to the Renewables and Utilities SBUs. Adjusted PTC We define Adjusted PTC as pre-tax income from continuing operations attributable to The AES Corporation excluding gains or losses of the consolidated entity due to (a) unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions and equity securities; (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses; (c) gains, losses, benefits and costs associated with dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, including early plant closures, and gains and losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases; (d) losses due to impairments; (e) gains, losses and costs due to the early retirement of debt; and (f) net gains at Angamos, one of our businesses in the Energy Infrastructure SBU, associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence. Adjusted PTC also includes net equity in earnings of affiliates on an after-tax basis adjusted for the same gains or losses excluded from consolidated entities. Adjusted PTC reflects the impact of NCI and excludes the items specified in the definition above. In addition to the revenue and cost of sales reflected in Operating Margin, Adjusted PTC includes the other components of our Consolidated Statement of Operations, such as general and administrative expenses in the Corporate segment, as well as business development costs, interest expense and interest income, other expense and other income, realized foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and net equity in earnings of affiliates . The GAAP measure most comparable to Adjusted PTC is income from continuing operations attributable to The AES Corporation . We believe that Adjusted PTC better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company and is the most relevant measure considered in the Company's internal evaluation of the financial performance of its segments. Factors in this determination include the variability due to unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions or equity securities remeasurement, unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, losses due to impairments, strategic decisions to dispose of or acquire business interests or retire debt, and the non-recurring nature of the impact of the early contract terminations at Angamos, which affect results in a given period or periods. In addition, Adjusted PTC represents the business performance of the Company before the application of statutory income tax rates and tax adjustments, including the effects of tax planning, corresponding to the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Given its large number of businesses and complexity, the Company concluded that Adjusted PTC is a more transparent measure that better assists investors in determining which businesses have the greatest impact on the Company's results. Adjusted PTC should not be construed as an alternative to income from continuing operations attributable to The AES Corporation , which is determined in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EPS We define Adjusted EPS as diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excluding gains or losses of both consolidated entities and entities accounted for under the equity method due to (a) unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions and equity securities; (b) unrealized foreign currency gains or losses; (c) gains, losses, benefits and costs associated with dispositions and acquisitions of business interests, including early plant closures, the tax impact from the repatriation of sales proceeds, and gains and losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases; (d) losses due to impairments; (e) gains, losses and costs due to the early retirement of debt; and (f) net gains at Angamos, one of our businesses in the Energy Infrastructure SBU, associated with the early contract terminations with Minera Escondida and Minera Spence. The GAAP measure most comparable to Adjusted EPS is diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. We believe that Adjusted EPS better reflects the underlying business performance of the Company and is considered in the Company's internal evaluation of financial performance. Factors in this determination include the variability due to unrealized gains or losses related to derivative transactions or equity securities remeasurement, unrealized foreign currency gains or losses, losses due to impairments, strategic decisions to dispose of or acquire business interests or retire debt, and the non-recurring nature of the impact of the early contract terminations at Angamos, which affect results in a given period or periods. Adjusted EPS should not be construed as an alternative to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, which is determined in accordance with GAAP. The Company reported a loss from continuing operations of $0.82 for the year ended December 31, 2022. For purposes of measuring diluted loss per share under GAAP, common stock equivalents were excluded from weighted average shares as their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. However, for purposes of computing Adjusted EPS, the Company has included the impact of dilutive common stock equivalents. The table below reconciles the weighted average shares used in GAAP diluted loss per share to the weighted average shares used in calculating the non-GAAP measure of Adjusted EPS. _____________________________ (1) Amount primarily relates to unrealized derivative losses due to the termination of a PPA of $72 million, or $0.10 per share and net unrealized derivative losses at AES Clean Energy of $20 million, or $0.03 per share, offset by net unrealized derivative gains at the Energy Infrastructure SBU of $46 million, or $0.06 per share. (2) Amount primarily relates to unrealized losses on power swaps at Southland Energy of $109 million, or $0.15 per share. (3) Amount primarily relates to unrealized foreign currency losses in Argentina of $262 million, or $0.37 per share, mainly associated with the devaluation of long-term receivables denominated in Argentine pesos, and unrealized foreign currency losses at AES Andes of $25 million, or $0.03 per share. (4) Amount primarily relates to unrealized foreign currency losses in Argentina of $39 million, or $0.05 per share, mainly associated with the devaluation of long-term receivables denominated in Argentine pesos. (5) Amount primarily relates to the gain on sale of Fluence shares of $136 million, or $0.19 per share, partially offset by costs due to early plant closure at the Ventanas 2 and Norgener coal-fired plants in Chile of $37 million, or $0.05 per share and at Warrior Run of $6 million, or $0.01 per share, and day-one losses recognized at commencement of sales-type leases at AES Renewable Holdings of $20 million, or $0.03 per share. (6) Amount primarily relates to costs on disposition of AES Gilbert, including the recognition of an allowance on the sales-type lease receivable, of $13 million, or $0.02 per share, and a day-one loss recognized at commencement of a sales-type lease at AES Waikoloa Solar of $5 million, or $0.01 per share. (7) Amount primarily relates to asset impairments at Warrior Run of $198 million, or $0.28 per share, at New York Wind of $139 million, or $0.20 per share, the Norgener coal-fired plant in Chile of $136 million, or $0.19 per share, at TEG and TEP of $76 million and $58 million, respectively, or $0.19 per share, AES Clean Energy development projects of $114 million, or $0.16 per share, at Mong Duong of $88 million, or $0.12 per share, at Jordan of $21 million, or $0.03 per share, and at the GAF Projects at AES Renewable Holdings of $18 million, or $0.03 per share, and a goodwill impairment at the TEG TEP reporting unit of $12 million, or $0.02 per share. (8) Amount primarily relates to goodwill impairments at AES Andes of $644 million, or $0.91 per share, and at AES El Salvador of $133 million, or $0.19 per share, other-than-temporary impairment at sPower of $175 million, or $0.25, as well as long-lived asset impairments at Maritza of $468 million, or $0.66 per share, at TEG TEP of $191 million, or $0.27 per share, and in Jordan of $28 million, or $0.04 per share. (9) Amount primarily relates to losses incurred at AES Andes due to early retirement of debt of $46 million, or $0.07 per share, and loss on early retirement of debt at AES Hispanola Holdings BV of $10 million, or $0.01 per share. (10) Amount primarily relates to losses on early retirement of debt due to refinancing at AES Renewable Holdings of $12 million, or $0.02 per share, at AES Clean Energy of $5 million, or $0.01 per share, at Mong Duong of $4 million, or $0.01 per share, and at TEG TEP of $4 million, or $0.01 per share. (11) Amount primarily relates to income tax benefits associated with the asset impairments at Warrior Run of $46 million, or $0.06 per share, at the Norgener coal-fired plant in Chile of $37 million, or $0.05 per share, at New York Wind of $32 million, or $0.05 per share, at TEG and TEP of $27 million, or $0.04 per share, and at AES Clean Energy development projects of $26 million, or $0.04 per share; income tax benefits associated with the recognition of unrealized losses due to the termination of a PPA of $17 million, or $0.02 per share; and income tax benefits associated with losses incurred at AES Andes due to early retirement of debt of $13 million, or $0.02 per share; partially offset by income tax expense associated with the gain on sale of Fluence shares of $31 million, or $0.04 per share. (12) Amount primarily relates to income tax benefits associated with the impairment at Maritza of $48 million, or $0.07 per share, income tax benefits associated with the other-than-temporary impairment at sPower of $39 million, or $0.06 per share, income tax benefits associated with the impairment at TEG TEP of $34 million, or $0.05 per share, and income tax benefits associated with unrealized losses on power swaps at Southland Energy of $24 million, or $0.03 per share. Renewables SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. Operating Margin decreased $36 million driven primarily by higher fixed costs due to an accelerated growth plan and unrealized derivative losses. This decrease was partially offset by better hydrology, new businesses operating in our portfolio, and higher wind availability, resulting in higher renewable energy generation. Adjusted EBITDA increased $40 million primarily due to the drivers mentioned above, adjusted for NCI, unrealized derivatives, and depreciation expense. Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes increased $366 million, primarily due to higher realized tax attributes driven by more projects being placed in service, as well as impact from the increase in Adjusted EBITDA. For the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we realized $593 million and $267 million, respectively, from tax attributes earned by AES Clean Energy businesses. Utilities SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes, and Adjusted PTC (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. (2) Adjusted PTC remains a key metric used by management for analyzing our businesses in the utilities industry . Operating Margin increased $54 million mainly driven by the deferral of purchased power costs in the current year, which were recognized in the prior year, associated with the ESP 4 approval, an increase in transmission and TDSIC rider revenues, higher demand due to extreme heat in El Salvador, and a regulatory settlement in the prior year, partially offset by the impact of milder weather in Indiana and Ohio, higher fixed costs, and increased depreciation expense. Adjusted EBITDA increased $66 million primarily due to the drivers above, adjusted for NCI and depreciation expense, partially offset by an increase in defined benefit plan costs. Adjusted EBITDA with Tax Attributes increased $84 million due to the drivers above, as well as $18 million of realized tax attributes related to the Hardy Hills solar project in the current year. Adjusted PTC increased $65 million primarily due to the drivers above, partially offset by higher depreciation expense. Energy Infrastructure SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin and Adjusted EBITDA (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. Operating Margin decreased $117 million, driven primarily by lower LNG transactions, lower contract energy sales due to lower prices, lower dispatch driven by lower demand, higher fixed costs, and a prior year one-time revenue recognition driven by a reduction in a project's expected completion costs. The decrease in Operating Margin is partially offset by unrealized gains resulting mainly from derivatives as part of our commercial hedging strategy, higher revenues due to a PPA termination agreement, lower outages, and lower depreciation expense due to impairments recognized in the current and prior year. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $305 million, primarily due to the drivers above adjusted for NCI, unrealized derivative gains, and depreciation, as well as higher realized foreign currency losses and lower insurance recovery. New Energy Technologies SBU The following table summarizes Operating Margin and Adjusted EBITDA (in millions) for the periods indicated: _____________________________ (1) A non-GAAP financial measure. See S BU Performance Analysis—Non-GAAP Measures for definition and Item 1. — for the respective ownership interest for key businesses. Operating Margin decreased $2 million, with no material drivers. Adjusted EBITDA increased $54 million, primarily driven by lower losses at Fluence due to improved margins on a new product line, the settlement of contractual claims with a battery module vendor, and incremental shipping and transportation costs incurred in the prior year as a result of COVID-19. These increases were partly offset by higher costs for research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Key Trends and Uncertainties During 2024 and beyond, we expect to face the following challenges at certain of our businesses. Management expects that improved operating performance at certain businesses, growth from new businesses, and global cost reduction initiatives may lessen or offset their impact. If these favorable effects do not occur, or if the challenges described below and elsewhere in this section impact us more significantly than we currently anticipate, or if volatile foreign currencies and commodities move more unfavorably, then these adverse factors (or other adverse factors unknown to us) may have a material impact on our operating margin, net income attributable to The AES Corporation and cash flows. We continue to monitor our operations and address challenges as they arise. For the risk factors related to our business, see Item 1.— and Item 1A.— of this Form 10-K. Operational Trade Restrictions and Supply Chain — On March 29, 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce (“Commerce”) announced the initiation of an investigation into whether imports into the U.S. of solar cells and panels imported from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam (“Southeast Asia”) are circumventing antidumping and countervailing duty (“AD/CVD”) orders on solar cells and panels from China. This investigation resulted in significant systemic disruptions to the import of solar cells and panels from Southeast Asia. On June 6, 2022, President Biden issued a Proclamation waiving any circumvention duties on imported solar cells and panels from Southeast Asia that result from this investigation for a 24-month period ending June 6, 2024. Suppliers resumed importing cells and panels from Southeast Asia into the U.S. pursuant to a Commerce certification regime implementing the Proclamation. On December 2, 2022, Commerce issued country-wide affirmative preliminary determinations that circumvention had occurred in each of the four Southeast Asian countries. Commerce also evaluated numerous individual companies and issued preliminary determinations that circumvention had occurred with respect to many but not all of these companies. Additionally, Commerce issued a preliminary determination that circumvention would not be deemed to occur for any solar cells and panels imported from the four countries if the wafers were manufactured outside of China or if no more than two out of six specifically identified components were produced in China. On August 18, 2023, Commerce issued its final determinations on the matter and affirmed its preliminary findings in most respects. Additionally, Commerce found that three of the specific companies it investigated were not circumventing. On December 29, 2023, Auxin Solar and Concept Clean Energy filed a lawsuit with the U.S. Court of International Trade, challenging certain aspects of the final rule promulgated by Commerce to implement the Proclamation. The lawsuit specifically challenges Commerce’s decisions not to suspend the final disposition of certain entries of imported solar cells and panels from Southeast Asia made prior to June 6, 2024, and not to collect AD/CVD deposits with respect to those entries. The Department of Justice has responded by filing a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. Additionally, the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act (“UFLPA”) seeks to block the import of products made with forced labor in certain areas of China and may lead to certain suppliers being blocked from importing solar cells and panels to the U.S . While this has impacted the U.S. market, AES has managed this issue without significant impact to our projects. Further disruptions may impact our suppliers’ ability or willingness to meet their contractual agreements or to continue to supply cells or panels into the U.S. market on terms that we deem satisfactory. The impact of any additional adverse Commerce determinations or other tariff disputes or litigation, the impact of the UFLPA, potential future disruptions to the solar panel supply chain and their effect on AES’ U.S. solar project development and construction activities remain uncertain. AES will continue to monitor developments and take prudent steps towards maintaining a robust supply chain for our renewables projects. We have contracted and secured our expected requirements for solar panels for U.S. projects targeted to achieve commercial operations in 2024. Operational Sensitivity to Dry Hydrological Conditions — Our hydroelectric generation facilities are sensitive to changes in the weather, particularly the level of water inflows into generation facilities. In the past, dry hydrological conditions in Panama, Brazil, Colombia and Chile have presented challenges for our businesses in these markets. Low rainfall and water inflows have caused reservoir levels to be below historical levels, reduced generation output, and increased prices for electricity. If our hydroelectric generation facilities cannot generate sufficient energy to meet contractual arrangements, we may need to purchase energy to fulfill our obligations, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. As a mitigation measure, AES has invested in thermal, wind, and solar generation assets, which have a complementary profile to hydroelectric plants. These plants are expected to have a higher generation in low hydrology scenarios, which allows them to generate additional revenues from the spot that offset purchases on the hydroelectric side. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ("NOAA"), El Niño conditions are observed and forecasted through the beginning of Q2 of 2024. Hydrological conditions thereafter are uncertain, but indications suggest either a return to normalized patterns or an emergence of La Niña for the remainder of 2024. In Panama, consistent with expected El Niño impacts, local hydrological forecasts indicate below historical average inflows persisting into Q2 of 2024, which could impact our results of operations. AES reduced its total generation exposure in Panama to dry hydrological conditions through investments in such complementary assets as the Colon LNG power facility, which commenced operations in 2018, the Penonome Wind Farm, and solar projects, providing a stable and independent diversified energy supply during periods of drought or when hydroelectric generation is limited. In Panama, the La Niña phenomenon in contrast to El Niño typically means wetter conditions than average, although local system impacts may vary due to other factors. Higher hydrology may result in energy surpluses after covering the contracted hydro positions, available to be sold in the spot market after fulfilling contract obligations. In Brazil, El Niño generally means more rainfall in the South and higher temperatures in the central region of the country, as seen in the last quarter of 2023, while La Niña results in more rainfall in the North, drier conditions in the South and milder temperatures in the central region, which could result in lower demand. Current system reservoir levels are high which supports continued lower spot prices through 2024 mitigating hydrological risk – lower prices limit external thermal generation which, if dispatched, could impact demand for the AES hydro generation. In Colombia, El Niño is characterized by drought and may result in higher spot prices. Lower overall AES Chivor hydrology may result in increased spot price energy exposure to cover contracted positions. The basin where AES Chivor is located typically experiences wet conditions from June through September in contrast with the broader system, which can result in additional energy available to sell in the spot market after fulfilling contract obligations as experienced earlier in 2023. La Niña in Colombia is characterized by more rainfall possibly leading to a decrease in spot prices. However, during La Niña impacts vary and the basin where Chivor is located may experience drier conditions than the system, notably between June and September. In Chile, the primary driver for AES’ hydro assets is snowpack volumes. Lower snowpack, together with reduced rainfall in the system, could increase both spot prices and energy purchase volumes required to meet contracted positions. The exact behavior pattern and strength of El Niño and the potential evolution towards La Niña cannot be definitively known at this time and therefore the impacts could vary from those described above, and may include impacts to our businesses beyond hydrology, including with respect to power generation from other renewable sources of energy and demand. Even if rainfall and water inflows return to or exceed historical averages, in some cases high market prices and low generation could persist until reservoir levels are fully recovered. Further, investments made in thermal, wind, and solar power generation may benefit from uncontracted spot sales at higher market prices. Our thermal assets in Panama may alternatively be impacted by low dispatch due to low market prices in the event of a La Niña. Impacts may be material to our results of operations. Macroeconomic and Political The macroeconomic and political environments in some countries where our subsidiaries conduct business have changed during 2023. This could result in significant impacts to tax laws and environmental and energy policies. Additionally, we operate in multiple countries and as such are subject to volatility in exchange rates at the subsidiary level. See Item 7A.— for further information. Argentina — The recent election of President Javier Milei on December 10, 2023, marks a pivotal moment in Argentina's economic landscape. The entering administration issued Decree No. 55/23, signaling a commitment to total economic deregulation. This decree declares a state of emergency in the power sector, tariff revisions for electric power and natural gas transport and distribution, and a broader proposal for sector-wide reform. President Milei also proposed a new bill, currently under review by Congress, that seeks to overhaul the energy regulatory framework. Emphasizing deregulation, the bill opens avenues for privatization of state-owned energy companies. These proposed changes may have a profound impact on the sector, influencing our operations and financial results. It is not yet possible to predict the impact of these regulations in our consolidated results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. Inflation Reduction Act and U.S. Renewable Energy Tax Credits — The Inflation Reduction Act (the “IRA”) was signed into law in the United States. The IRA includes provisions that are expected to benefit the U.S. clean energy industry, including increases, extensions, direct transfers and/or new tax credits for onshore and offshore wind, solar, storage and hydrogen projects. We expect that the extension of the current solar investment tax credits ("ITCs"), as well as higher credits available for projects that satisfy wage and apprenticeship requirements, will increase demand for our renewables products. Our U.S. renewables business has a 51 GW pipeline that we intend to utilize to continue to grow our business, and these changes in tax policy are supportive of this strategy. We account for U.S. renewables projects according to U.S. GAAP, which, when partnering with tax-equity investors to monetize tax benefits, utilizes the HLBV method. This method recognizes the tax-credit value that is transferred to tax equity investors at the time of its creation, which for projects utilizing the investment tax credit begins in the quarter the project is placed in service. For projects utilizing the production tax credit, this value is recognized over 10 years as the facility produces energy. The IRA also allows us to directly transfer investment tax credits to unrelated tax credit buyers. We account for the transfer proceeds as tax benefit throughout the year the renewables project is placed in service. In 2023, we realized $611 million of earnings from Tax Attributes, comprised of $593 million from the Renewables SBU and $18 million from the Utilities SBU. In 2024, we expect an increase in Tax Attributes earned by our U.S. renewables business in line with the growth in that business. Based on construction schedules, a significant portion of these earnings will be realized in the fourth quarter. The implementation of the IRA requires substantial guidance from the U.S. Department of Treasury and other government agencies. While some of that guidance remains pending, there will be uncertainty with respect to the implementation of certain provisions of the IRA. Global Tax — The macroeconomic and political environments in the U.S. and in some countries where our subsidiaries conduct business have changed during 2022 and 2023. This could result in significant impacts to future tax law. In the U.S., the IRA includes a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax based on adjusted financial statement income. Additional guidance is expected to be issued in 2024. In the fourth quarter of 2022, the European Commission adopted an amended Directive on Pillar 2 establishing a global minimum tax at a 15% rate. The adoption requires EU Member States to transpose the Directive into their respective national laws by December 31, 2023 for the rules to come into effect as of January 1, 2024. During 2023, the Netherlands, Bulgaria and Vietnam adopted legislation to implement Pillar 2 effective as of January 1, 2024. We will continue to monitor the issuance of draft legislation in other non-EU countries where the Company operates that are considering Pillar 2 amendments. The impact to the Company remains unknown but may be material. Inflation — In the markets in which we operate, there have been higher rates of inflation recently. While most of our contracts in our international businesses are indexed to inflation, in general, our U.S.-based generation contracts are not indexed to inflation. If inflation continues to increase in our markets, it may increase our expenses that we may not be able to pass through to customers. It may also increase the costs of some of our development projects that could negatively impact their competitiveness. Our utility businesses do allow for recovering of operations and maintenance costs through the regulatory process, which may have timing impacts on recovery. Interest Rates — In the U.S. and other markets in which we operate, there has been a rise in interest rates during 2021 through 2023, and interest rates are expected to remain volatile in the near term. As discussed in Item 7A.— , although most of our existing corporate and subsidiary debt is at fixed rates, an increase in interest rates can have several impacts on our business. For any existing debt under floating rate structures and any future debt refinancings, rising interest rates will increase future financing costs. In most cases in which we have floating rate debt, our revenues serving this debt are indexed to inflation which helps mitigate the impact of rising rates. For future debt refinancings, AES actively manages a hedging program to reduce uncertainty and exposure to future interest rates. For new business, higher interest rates increase the financing costs for new projects under development and which have not yet secured financing. AES typically seeks to incorporate expected financing costs into our new PPA pricing such that we maintain our target investment returns, but higher financing costs may negatively impact our returns or the competitiveness of some of our development projects. Additionally, we typically seek to enter into interest rate hedges shortly after signing PPAs to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates prior to securing long-term financing. Puerto Rico — Our subsidiaries in Puerto Rico have long-term PPAs with state-owned PREPA, which has been facing economic challenges that could result in a material adverse effect on our business in Puerto Rico. Despite the Title III protection, PREPA has been making substantially all of its payments to the generators in line with historical payment patterns. The Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act (“PROMESA”) was enacted to create a structure for exercising federal oversight over the fiscal affairs of U.S. territories and created procedures for adjusting debt accumulated by the Puerto Rico government and, potentially, other territories (“Title III”). PROMESA also expedites the approval of key energy projects and other critical projects in Puerto Rico. PROMESA allowed for the establishment of an Oversight Board with broad powers of budgetary and financial control over Puerto Rico. The Oversight Board filed for bankruptcy on behalf of PREPA under Title III in July 2017. As a result of the bankruptcy filing, AES Puerto Rico and AES Ilumina’s non-recourse debt of $143 million and $25 million, respectively, continue to be in technical default and are classified as current as of December 31, 2023. The non-recourse debt at AES Puerto Rico is also in payment default. On April 12, 2022, a mediation team was appointed to prepare the plan to resolve the PREPA Title III case and related proceedings. A disclosure statement hearing was held on April 28, 2023. The mediation was extended through August 4, 2023. On November 14, 2023, the Judge presiding over the case approved the supplemental disclosure statement for PREPA’s Fourth Modified Third Amended Title III Plan of Adjustment. The confirmation trial is still scheduled to begin March 4, 2024. Earlier this year, AES Puerto Rico took certain measures to address identified liquidity challenges. On July 6, 2023, PREPA agreed to the release of funds in the escrow account guaranteeing AES Puerto Rico’s obligations under the Power Purchase and Operating Agreement (“PPOA”) in order to provide additional liquidity for the business. AES Puerto Rico continues to work with PREPA and its noteholders on these liquidity challenges. During Q4 2023, a restructuring support agreement was executed by AES Puerto Rico and its noteholders and a PPOA amendment was approved by PREPA. These agreements require Puerto Rico Energy Bureau ("PREB") approval to become effective. On February 2, 2024 a resolution was issued by PREB approving the PPOA amendment subject to the incorporation of certain additional terms and conditions. The Company expects the PPOA amendment and restructuring support agreement to become effective during the first quarter of 2024 . Despite these challenges and considering the information available as of the filing date, management believes the carrying amount of our long-lived assets at AES Puerto Rico of $76 million is recoverable as of December 31, 2023. Mexico Migration and Wheeling Tariffs — The interconnection agreements for TEP and TEG under the self-supply energy regime in Mexico expire in March and April 2024, respectively. Consequently, TEG and TEP are required to migrate into the new energy regime established by the Electricity Industry Law of 2021 (“LIE”) and to execute new interconnection agreements prior to the expiration of the current interconnection agreements. In February and September 2022, respectively, TEG and TEP made formal requests to the Mexican Comision Reguladora de Energia (“CRE”) to update the projects’ permits and allow them to migrate into the LIE (“Migration Requests”). In discussions with TEG and TEP, CRE has stated that it will not allow migration into the LIE unless the projects withdraw their respective legal challenges to certain laws, including RES/894/2020 (“Resolution 894”), which attempts to increase the wheeling tariffs paid by TEG and TEP to CFE. The increase is currently estimated to be over $90 million for the relevant period (July 2020 through March 2024). TEG and TEP have informed CRE that the agency is not entitled to reject the Migration Requests because of the legal challenges. In February 2024, the Collegiate Court ruled in favor of TEG and TEP on their challenge to Resolution 894. Nevertheless, later in February 2024, CRE denied TEG's Migration Request. TEG has formally requested that CRE issue a new permit. If CRE does not issue a new permit and if TEG cannot enter into a new interconnection agreement, TEG will not be allowed to operate after its current interconnection agreement expires. CRE is expected to determine TEP's Migration Request in the near future, but we cannot predict the outcome of that determination. TEG and TEP will take all necessary regulatory and legal steps to protect their interests. Furthermore, if TEG and TEP are ever required to pay increased wheeling tariffs, TEG and TEP will seek to enforce their respective contractual rights to pass-through the increases to their respective offtakers. However, there are no assurances that TEG and TEP will be successful in these efforts. The inability to migrate into the LIE and/or the inability to pass-through wheeling tariff increases could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Decarbonization Initiatives Our strategy involves shifting towards clean energy platforms, including renewable energy, energy storage, LNG, and modernized grids. It is designed to position us for continued growth while reducing our carbon intensity and in support of our mission of accelerating the future of energy, together. We have made significant progress on our exit of coal generation, and we intend to exit the substantial majority of our remaining coal facilities by year-end 2025 and intend to exit all of the coal facilities by year-end 2027, subject to necessary approvals. In addition, initiatives have been announced by regulators, including in Chile, Puerto Rico, and Bulgaria, and offtakers in recent years, with the intention of reducing GHG emissions generated by the energy industry. In parallel, the shift towards renewables has caused certain customers to migrate to other low-carbon energy solutions and this trend may continue. Although we cannot currently estimate the financial impact of these decarbonization initiatives, new legislative or regulatory programs further restricting carbon emissions or other initiatives to voluntarily exit coal generation could require material capital expenditures, resulting in a reduction of the estimated useful life of certain coal facilities, or have other material adverse effects on our financial results. For further information about the risks associated with decarbonization initiatives, see Item 1A. — included in this Form 10-K. Regulatory AES Maritza PPA Review — DG Comp is conducting a preliminary review of whether AES Maritza’s PPA with NEK is compliant with the European Union's State Aid rules. No formal investigation has been launched by DG Comp to date. AES Maritza has previously engaged in discussions with the DG Comp case team and the Government of Bulgaria ("GoB") to attempt to reach a negotiated resolution of the DG Comp’s review ("PPA Discussions"). There are no active PPA Discussions at present but those discussions could resume at any time. The PPA continues to remain in place. However, there can be no assurance that, in the context of DG Comp's preliminary review or any future PPA Discussions, the other parties will not seek a prompt termination of the PPA. We do not believe termination of the PPA is justified. Nevertheless, the PPA Discussions involved a range of potential outcomes, including but not limited to the termination of the PPA and payment of some level of compensation to AES Maritza. Any negotiated resolution would be subject to mutually acceptable terms, lender consent, and DG Comp approval. At this time, we cannot predict whether and when the PPA Discussions might resume or the outcome of any such discussions. Nor can we predict how DG Comp might resolve its review if the PPA Discussions do not resume or if any such discussions fail to result in an agreement concerning the agency's review. AES Maritza believes that its PPA is legal and in compliance with all applicable laws, and it will take all actions necessary to protect its interests, whether through negotiated agreement or otherwise. However, there can be no assurance that this matter will be resolved favorably; if it is not, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operation, and cash flows. As of December 31, 2023, the carrying value of our long-lived assets at Maritza is $345 million. Foreign Exchange Rates We operate in multiple countries and as such are subject to volatility in exchange rates at varying degrees at the subsidiary level and between our functional currency, the USD, and currencies of the countries in which we operate. The overall economic climate in Argentina has deteriorated, resulting in volatility and increased the risk that a further significant devaluation of the Argentine peso against the USD, similar to the devaluations experienced by the country in 2018, 2019, and 2023, may occur. A continued trend of peso devaluation could result in increased inflation, a deterioration of the country’s risk profile, and other adverse macroeconomic effects that could significantly impact our results of operations. For additional information, refer to Item 7A.— . Impairments Long-lived Assets and Current Assets Held-for-Sale — During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company recognized asset impairment expense of $1.1 billion. See Note 8— and Note 22— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. After recognizing these impairment expenses, the carrying value of our investments in long-lived assets and current assets held-for-sale that were assessed for impairment following a triggering event in 2023 totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2023. Events or changes in circumstances that may necessitate recoverability tests and potential impairments of long-lived assets may include, but are not limited to, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, unfavorable changes in power prices or fuel costs, increased competition due to additional capacity in the grid, technological advancements, declining trends in demand, evolving industry expectations to transition away from fossil fuel sources for generation, or an expectation it is more likely than not the asset will be disposed of before the end of its estimated useful life. Goodwill — An increase in the discount rate at TEG TEP has negatively impacted our annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2022, and thus, an impairment of goodwill of $12 million has been recognized as of December 31, 2023, reducing the goodwill balance of TEG TEP to zero. See Note 9 — included in Item 8. — for further information. The Company had no other reporting units considered to be “at risk,” as the fair value of all other reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by more than 10%. Should the fair value of any of the Company’s reporting units fall below its carrying amount as a result of these inputs or other changes such as reduced operating performance, market declines, changes in the discount rate, regulatory changes, or other adverse conditions, goodwill impairment charges may be necessary in future periods. Capital Resources and Liquidity Overview As of December 31, 2023, the Company had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $1.4 billion, of which $33 million was held at the Parent Company and qualified holding companies. The Company had $395 million in short-term investments, held primarily at subsidiaries, and restricted cash and debt service reserves of $564 million. The Company also had non-recourse and recourse aggregate principal amounts of debt outstanding of $22.1 billion and $4.5 billion, respectively. Of the $3.9 billion of our current non-recourse debt, $3.6 billion was presented as such because it is due in the next twelve months and $325 million relates to debt considered in default. Defaults at AES Puerto Rico are covenant and payment defaults. See Item 7.— for additional detail. All other defaults are not payment defaults but are instead technical defaults triggered by failure to comply with covenants or other requirements contained in the non-recourse debt documents. As of December 31, 2023, the Company also had $974 million outstanding related to supplier financing arrangements . We expect current maturities of non-recourse debt, recourse debt, and amounts due under supplier financing arrangements to be repaid from net cash provided by operating activities of the subsidiary to which the liability relates, through opportunistic refinancing activity, or some combination thereof. We have $200 million in recourse debt which matures within the next twelve months, as well as amounts due under supplier financing arrangements, of which $814 million has a Parent Company guarantee. From time to time, we may elect to repurchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise when management believes that such securities are attractively priced. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, and other factors. The amounts involved in any such repurchases may be material. We rely mainly on long-term debt obligations to fund our construction activities. We have, to the extent available at acceptable terms, utilized non-recourse debt to fund a significant portion of the capital expenditures and investments required to construct and acquire our electric power plants, distribution companies, and related assets. Our non-recourse financing is designed to limit cross-default risk to the Parent Company or other subsidiaries and affiliates. Our non-recourse long-term debt is a combination of fixed and variable interest rate instruments. Debt is typically denominated in the currency that matches the currency of the revenue expected to be generated from the benefiting project, thereby reducing currency risk. In certain cases, the currency is matched through the use of derivative instruments. The majority of our non-recourse debt is funded by international commercial banks, with debt capacity supplemented by multilaterals and local regional banks. Given our long-term debt obligations, the Company is subject to interest rate risk on debt balances that accrue interest at variable rates. When possible, the Company will borrow funds at fixed interest rates or hedge its variable rate debt to fix its interest costs on such obligations. In addition, the Company has historically tried to maintain at least 70% of its consolidated long-term obligations at fixed interest rates, including fixing the interest rate through the use of interest rate swaps. These efforts apply to the notional amount of the swaps compared to the amount of related underlying debt. Presently, the Parent Company's only material unhedged exposure to variable interest rate debt relates to $200 million in senior unsecured term loans. Additionally, commercial paper issuances are short term in nature and subject the Parent Company to interest rate risk at the time of refinancing the paper. On a consolidated basis, of the Company's $27 billion of total gross debt outstanding as of December 31, 2023, approximately $9.9 billion accrues interest at variable rates. Brazil holds $2.3 billion of our floating rate non-recourse exposure as variable rate instruments act as a natural hedge against inflation in Brazil. The Company actively hedges its current and expected variable rate exposure through a combination of currently effective and forward starting interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2023, the total maximum outstanding amount of hedges protecting the company against variable rate exposure was $6.6 billion. These hedges generally provide economic protection through the entire expected life of the projects, regardless of the type of debt issued to finance construction or refinance the projects in the future. In addition to utilizing non-recourse debt at a subsidiary level when available, the Parent Company provides a portion, or in certain instances all, of the remaining long-term financing or credit required to fund development, construction or acquisition of a particular project. These investments have generally taken the form of equity investments or intercompany loans, which are subordinated to the project's non-recourse loans. We generally obtain the funds for these investments from our cash flows from operations, proceeds from the sales of assets and/or the proceeds from our issuances of debt, common stock, and other securities. Similarly, in certain of our businesses, the Parent Company may provide financial guarantees or other credit support in support of tax equity partnerships or for the benefit of counterparties who have entered into contracts for the purchase or sale of electricity, equipment, or other services with our subsidiaries or lenders. In such circumstances, if a business defaults on its payment or supply obligation, the Parent Company will be responsible for the business' obligations up to the amount provided for in the relevant guarantee or other credit support. As of December 31, 2023, the Parent Company had provided outstanding financial and performance-related guarantees or other credit support commitments to or for the benefit of our businesses, which were limited by the terms of the agreements, of approximately $4 billion in aggregate (excluding those collateralized by letters of credit and other obligations discussed below). Some counterparties may be unwilling to accept our general unsecured commitments to provide credit support. Accordingly, with respect to both new and existing commitments, the Parent Company may be required to provide some other form of assurance, such as a letter of credit, to backstop or replace our credit support. The Parent Company may not be able to provide adequate assurances to such counterparties. To the extent we are required and able to provide letters of credit or other collateral to such counterparties, this will reduce the amount of credit available to us to meet our other liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2023, we had $235 million in letters of credit under bilateral agreements, $188 million in letters of credit outstanding provided under our unsecured credit facilities, and $124 million in letters of credit outstanding provided under our revolving credit facility. These letters of credit operate to guarantee performance relating to certain project development and construction activities and business operations. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Parent Company paid letter of credit fees ranging from 1% to 3% per annum on the outstanding amounts. Additionally, in connection with certain project financings, some of the Company's subsidiaries have expressly undertaken limited obligations and commitments. These contingent contractual obligations are issued at the subsidiary level and are non-recourse to the Parent Company. As of December 31, 2023, the maximum undiscounted potential exposure to guarantees issued by our subsidiaries was $2.8 billion, including $1.8 billion of customary payment guarantees under EPC contracts and other agreements, and $1 billion of tax equity financing related guarantees. In addition, as of December 31, 2023, our subsidiaries had $359 million of letters of credit outstanding. We expect to continue to seek, where possible, non-recourse debt financing in connection with the assets or businesses that we or our affiliates may develop, construct or acquire. However, depending on local and global market conditions and the unique characteristics of individual businesses, non-recourse debt may not be available on economically attractive terms or at all. If we decide not to provide any additional funding or credit support to a subsidiary project that is under construction or has near-term debt payment obligations and that subsidiary is unable to obtain additional non-recourse debt, such subsidiary may become insolvent, and we may lose our investment in that subsidiary. Additionally, if any of our subsidiaries lose a significant customer, the subsidiary may need to withdraw from a project or restructure the non-recourse debt financing. If we or the subsidiary choose not to proceed with a project or are unable to successfully complete a restructuring of the non-recourse debt, we may lose our investment in that subsidiary. Many of our subsidiaries depend on timely and continued access to capital markets to manage their liquidity needs. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, to refinance existing indebtedness or to fund operations and other commitments during times of political or economic uncertainty may have material adverse effects on the financial condition and results of operations of those subsidiaries. In addition, changes in the timing of tariff increases or delays in the regulatory determinations under the relevant concessions could affect the cash flows and results of operations of our businesses. Long-Term Receivables As of December 31, 2023, the Company had approximately $193 million of gross accounts receivable classified as Other noncurrent assets . These noncurrent receivables mostly consist of accounts receivable in the U.S. and Chile that, pursuant to amended agreements or government resolutions, have collection periods that extend beyond December 31, 2024, or one year from the latest balance sheet date. Noncurrent receivables in the U.S. pertain to the Warrior Run PPA termination agreement and the sale of the Redondo Beach land. The receivables in Chile pertain primarily to revenues recognized on regulated energy contracts that were impacted by the Stabilization Fund created by the Chilean government. See Note 7— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had approximately $1.1 billion of loans receivable related to the Mong Duong facility in Vietnam, which was constructed under a BOT contract. This loan receivable represents contract consideration related to the construction of the facility, which was substantially completed in 2015, and will be collected over the 25-year term of the plant's PPA. As of December 31, 2023, Mong Duong met the held-for-sale criteria and the loan receivable balance, net of CECL reserve, was classified in held-for-sale assets. Of the loan receivable balance, $108 million was classified as Current held-for-sale assets , and $962 million was classified as Noncurrent held-for-sale assets . See Note 20— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Cash Sources and Uses The primary sources of cash for the Company in the year ended December 31, 2023 were debt financings, cash flows from operating activities, sales to noncontrolling interests, purchases under supplier financing arrangements, and sales of short-term investments. The primary uses of cash in the year ended December 31, 2023 were repayments of debt, capital expenditures, repayments of obligations under supplier financing arrangements, purchases of short-term investments, and acquisitions of business interests. The primary sources of cash for the Company in the year ended December 31, 2022 were debt financings, cash flows from operating activities, sales of short-term investments, purchases under supplier financing arrangements, and sales to noncontrolling interests. The primary uses of cash in the year ended December 31, 2022 were repayments of debt, capital expenditures, purchases of short-term investments, acquisitions of noncontrolling interests, and purchases of emissions allowances in Bulgaria. A summary of cash-based activities are as follows (in millions): _____________________________ (1) Includes the $270 million and $56 million effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. These impacts are primarily related to the devaluation of the Argentine peso as Argentina's economy continued to be highly inflationary. See s for further information. Consolidated Cash Flows The following table reflects the changes in operating, investing, and financing cash flows for the comparative twelve month periods (in millions): Operating Activities Fiscal Year 2023 versus 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities increased $319 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to December 31, 2022. Operating Cash Flows (in millions) (1) The change in adjusted net income is defined as the variance in net income , net of the total adjustments to net income as shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. (2) The change in working capital is defined as the variance in total c hanges in operating assets and liabilities as shown on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. • Adjusted net income decreased $280 million, primarily due to lower margins at our Energy Infrastructure and Renewables SBUs and an increase in interest expense; partially offset by higher margins at our Utilities SBU and an increase in interest income. • Working capital requirements decreased $599 million, primarily due to a decrease in accounts receivable resulting from higher collections, and decreases in inventory and accounts payable due to lower inventory purchases at lower prices; partially offset by an increase in other assets due to the receivables under the Warrior Run PPA termination agreement and the deferral of purchased power costs in the current year. Investing Activities Fiscal Year 2023 versus 2022 Net cash used in investing activities increased $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022. Investing Cash Flows (in millions) • Acquisitions of business interests increased $299 million, primarily due to the acquisitions of Bellefield and Rexford at AES Clean Energy and Bolero Solar Park at AES Andes; partially offset by the prior year acquisitions of the Cubico II Wind Complex at AES Brasil and Agua Clara in the Dominican Republic. • Cash from short-term investing activities increased $824 million, primarily as a result of higher short-term investment sales in 2023 to fund the capital expenditures of our renewables projects. • Proceeds from sales of business interests increased $253 million due to proceeds from the partial sale of our ownership interests in Fluence and sPower OpCo B. • Purchases of emissions allowances decreased $220 million, primarily in Bulgaria as a result of lower CO 2 purchases due to lower production. • Capital expenditures increased $3.2 billion, discussed further below. Capital Expenditures (in millions) (1) Growth expenditures generally include expenditures related to development projects in construction, expenditures that increase capacity of a facility beyond the original design, and investments in general load growth or system modernization. (2) Maintenance expenditures generally include expenditures that are necessary to maintain regular operations or net maximum capacity of a facility. (3) Environmental expenditures generally include expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations, expenditures for safety programs and other expenditures to ensure a facility continues to operate in an environmentally responsible manner. • Growth expenditures increased $3 billion, primarily driven by an increase in U.S. renewables projects. • Maintenance expenditures increased $212 million, primarily due to higher transmission and distribution and renewables project investments at our Utilities SBU and increased expenditures for hydro and wind plants at our Renewables SBU. • Environmental expenditures increased $1 million, with no material drivers. Financing Activities Fiscal Year 2023 versus 2022 Net cash provided by financing activities increased $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022. Financing Cash Flows (in millions) See Notes 11— and 17— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for more information regarding significant debt and equity transactions, respectively. • The $1.2 billion impact from sales to noncontrolling interests is primarily due to proceeds received at AES Clean Energy from the sales of ownership in project companies to tax equity investors, the sale of a 20% interest in AES Dominicana and a 35% interest in Colon, and from an increase in sales under the Chile Renovables renewable partnership with GIP; partially offset by the prior year sale of a 14.9% ownership interest in Southland Energy. • The $729 million impact from recourse debt is primarily due to the issuance of senior notes due in 2028 by the Parent Company. • The $475 million impact from acquisitions of noncontrolling interests is mainly due to the prior year acquisition of an additional 32% ownership interest in AES Andes; partially offset by the final installment payment for the 2021 acquisition of the remaining 49.9% noncontrolling ownership interest in Colon. • The $366 million impact from non-recourse revolving credit facilities is primarily due to an increase in borrowings at our Energy Infrastructure SBU. • The $361 million impact from issuance of preferred shares in subsidiaries is due to the proceeds received from the issuance of preferred shares to GIP, as part of the Chile Renovables renewable partnership, and the issuance of preferred shares to HASI at AES Renewable Holdings for OpCo 1; partially offset by proceeds received in the prior year for issuances of preferred shares at AES Brasil. • The $618 million impact from non-recourse debt transactions is mainly due to lower net borrowings at the Energy Infrastructure SBU and higher net repayments at Corporate; partially offset by higher net borrowings at the Renewables SBU. • The $285 million impact from the Parent Company revolver is primarily due to higher net repayments in the current year. • The $243 million impact from supplier financing arrangements is primarily due to higher net repayments at the Renewables and Energy Infrastructure SBUs. Parent Company Liquidity The following discussion is included as a useful measure of the liquidity available to The AES Corporation, or the Parent Company, given the non-recourse nature of most of our indebtedness. Parent Company Liquidity as outlined below is a non-GAAP measure and should not be construed as an alternative to Cash and cash equivalents, which is determined in accordance with GAAP. Parent Company Liquidity may differ from similarly titled measures used by other companies. The principal sources of liquidity at the Parent Company level are dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries, including refinancing proceeds; proceeds from debt and equity financings at the Parent Company level, including availability under our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program; and proceeds from asset sales. The Parent Company credit facility and commercial paper program are generally used for short-term cash needs to bridge the timing of distributions from subsidiaries. Cash requirements at the Parent Company level are primarily to fund interest and principal repayments of debt, construction commitments, other equity commitments, acquisitions, taxes, Parent Company overhead and development costs, and dividends on common stock. The Company defines Parent Company Liquidity as cash available to the Parent Company, including cash at qualified holding companies, plus available borrowings under our existing credit facility and commercial paper program. The cash held at qualified holding companies represents cash sent to subsidiaries of the Company domiciled outside of the U.S. Such subsidiaries have no contractual restrictions on their ability to send cash to the Parent Company. Parent Company Liquidity is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, Cash and cash equivalents , at the periods indicated as follows (in millions): The Parent Company paid dividends of $0.66 per outstanding share to its common stockholders during the year ended December 31, 2023. While we intend to continue payment of dividends and believe we will have sufficient liquidity to do so, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends, or if continued, the amount of such dividends. Recourse Debt Our total recourse debt was $4.5 billion and $3.9 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 11— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional detail. We believe that our sources of liquidity will be adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. This belief is based on a number of material assumptions, including, without limitation, assumptions about our ability to access the capital markets, the operating and financial performance of our subsidiaries, currency exchange rates, power market pool prices, and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. In addition, our subsidiaries' ability to declare and pay cash dividends to us (at the Parent Company level) is subject to certain limitations contained in loans, governmental provisions, and other agreements. We can provide no assurance that these sources will be available when needed or that the actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. We have met our interim needs for shorter-term and working capital financing at the Parent Company level with our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. See Item 1A.— , of this Form 10-K. Various debt instruments at the Parent Company level, including our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program, contain certain restrictive covenants. The covenants provide for, among other items, limitations on other indebtedness, liens, investments and guarantees; limitations on dividends, stock repurchases and other equity transactions; restrictions and limitations on mergers and acquisitions, sales of assets, leases, transactions with affiliates and off-balance sheet and derivative arrangements; maintenance of certain financial ratios; and financial and other reporting requirements. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with these covenants at the Parent Company level. Non-Recourse Debt While the lenders under our non-recourse debt financings generally do not have direct recourse to the Parent Company, defaults thereunder can still have important consequences for our results of operations and liquidity, including, without limitation: • reducing our cash flows as the subsidiary will typically be prohibited from distributing cash to the Parent Company during the time period of any default; • triggering our obligation to make payments under any financial guarantee, letter of credit or other credit support we have provided to or on behalf of such subsidiary; • causing us to record a loss in the event the lender forecloses on the assets; and • triggering defaults in our outstanding debt at the Parent Company. For example, our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt securities at the Parent Company include events of default for certain bankruptcy-related events involving material subsidiaries. In addition, our revolving credit agreement at the Parent Company includes events of default related to payment defaults and accelerations of outstanding debt of material subsidiaries. Some of our subsidiaries are currently in default with respect to all or a portion of their outstanding indebtedness. The total non-recourse debt classified as current in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets amounts to $3.9 billion. The portion of current debt related to such defaults was $325 million at December 31, 2023, all of which was non-recourse debt related to four subsidiaries — AES Mexico Generation Holdings, AES Puerto Rico, AES Ilumina, and AES Jordan Solar. Defaults at AES Puerto Rico are covenant and payment defaults. See Item 7.— for additional detail. All other defaults are not payment defaults, but are instead technical defaults triggered by failure to comply with other covenants or other conditions contained in the non-recourse debt documents. See Note 11— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional detail. None of the subsidiaries that are currently in default are subsidiaries that met the applicable definition of materiality under the Parent Company's debt agreements as of December 31, 2023, in order for such defaults to trigger an event of default or permit acceleration under the Parent Company's indebtedness. However, as a result of additional dispositions of assets, other significant reductions in asset carrying values or other matters in the future that may impact our financial position and results of operations or the financial position of the individual subsidiary, it is possible that one or more of these subsidiaries could fall within the definition of a "material subsidiary" and thereby trigger an event of default and possible acceleration of the indebtedness under the Parent Company's outstanding debt securities. A material subsidiary is defined in the Parent Company's revolving credit agreement as any business that contributed 20% or more of the Parent Company's total cash distributions from businesses for the four most recently completed fiscal quarters. As of December 31, 2023, none of the defaults listed above resulted in a cross-default under the recourse debt of the Parent Company. Furthermore, none of the non-recourse debt in default listed above is guaranteed by the Parent Company. Contractual Obligations and Contingent Contractual Obligations A summary of our contractual obligations, commitments and other liabilities as of December 31, 2023 is presented below (in millions): _____________________________ (1) Includes recourse and non-recourse debt presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These amounts exclude finance lease liabilities which are included in the finance lease category. (2) Excludes any businesses classified as held-for-sale. See Note 24— in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional information related to held-for-sale businesses. (3) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2023 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions or new debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2023. (4) These amounts do not include current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets except for the current portion of uncertain tax obligations. Noncurrent uncertain tax obligations are reflected in the "Other" column of the table above as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the future payments. In addition, these amounts do not include: (1) regulatory liabilities (See Note 10— ), (2) contingencies (See Note 13— ), (3) pension and other postretirement employee benefit liabilities (see Note 15— ), (4) derivatives and incentive compensation (See Note 6— ) or (5) any taxes (See Note 23— ) except for uncertain tax obligations, as the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing of future payments. See the indicated notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional information on the items excluded. (5) For further information see the note referenced below in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. The following table presents our Parent Company's contingent contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023: Additionally, some of the Company's subsidiaries have contingent contractual obligations that are non-recourse to the Parent Company. As of December 31, 2023, the maximum undiscounted potential exposure to guarantees issued by our subsidiaries was $2.8 billion, including $1.8 billion of customary payment guarantees under EPC contracts and other agreements, and $1 billion of tax equity financing related guarantees. In addition, as of December 31, 2023, our subsidiaries had $359 million of letters of credit outstanding. We have a diverse portfolio of performance-related contingent contractual obligations. These obligations are designed to cover potential risks and only require payment if certain targets are not met or certain contingencies occur. The risks associated with these obligations include change of control, construction cost overruns, subsidiary default, political risk, tax indemnities, spot market power prices, sponsor support, and liquidated damages under power sales agreements for projects in development, in operation and under construction. While we do not expect that we will be required to fund any material amounts under these contingent contractual obligations beyond 2023, many of the events which would give rise to such obligations are beyond our control. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to fund our obligations under these contingent contractual obligations if we are required to make substantial payments thereunder. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Consolidated Financial Statements of AES are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the periods presented. AES' significant accounting policies are described in Note 1— to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. An accounting estimate is considered critical if the estimate requires management to make assumptions about matters that were highly uncertain at the time the estimate was made, different estimates reasonably could have been used, or the impact of the estimates and assumptions on financial condition or operating performance is material. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could materially differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. Management has discussed these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee, as appropriate. Listed below are the Company's most significant critical accounting estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes — We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our worldwide income tax provision requires significant judgment and is based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities. Certain of the Company's subsidiaries are under examination by relevant taxing authorities for various tax years. The Company regularly assesses the potential outcome of these examinations in each tax jurisdiction when determining the adequacy of the provision for income taxes. Accounting guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a more likely than not recognition threshold. Tax reserves have been established, which the Company believes to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, reserves are adjusted only when there is more information available or when an event occurs necessitating a change to the reserves. While the Company believes that the amounts of the tax estimates are reasonable, it is possible that the ultimate outcome of current or future examinations may be materially different than the reserve amounts. Because we have a wide range of statutory tax rates in the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, any changes in our geographical earnings mix could materially impact our effective tax rate. Furthermore, our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof and such changes may be more likely or become more likely in view of recent economic trends in certain of the jurisdictions in which we operate. In addition, no taxes have been recorded on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. Should the earnings be remitted as dividends, the Company may be subject to additional foreign withholding and state income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of the existing assets and liabilities, and their respective income tax bases. The Company establishes a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company has elected to treat GILTI as an expense in the period in which the tax is accrued. Accordingly, no deferred tax assets or liabilities are recorded related to GILTI. In addition, the Company has elected an accounting policy not to consider the effects of being subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax in future periods when assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets, carryforwards, and tax credits. Any effect on the realization of deferred tax assets will be recognized in the period they arise. The Company accounts for tax credits that it will retain or transfer as a reduction in income tax expense by either including the expected amount of the tax credit to be claimed or the cash to be received when transferred, respectively, in the calculation of its annual effective tax rate. The estimated tax credits are updated on a quarterly basis, with the year-end calculation including only the tax credits that are associated with projects placed in service, comprising credits claimed or transferred during the year. In assessing realizability for credits to be transferred, the Company includes cash it anticipates receiving in establishing any valuation allowance and establishes a valuation allowance equal to its best estimate of any discount on the transfer. The receipt of cash from the transfer of tax credits is treated as an operating cash inflow. Impairments — Our accounting policies on goodwill and long-lived assets, including events that lead to possible impairment, are described in detail in Note 1— , included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. The Company makes considerable judgments in its impairment evaluations of goodwill and long-lived assets, starting with determining if an impairment indicator exists. The Company exercises judgment in determining if these indicators or events represent an impairment indicator requiring the computation of the fair value of goodwill and/or the recoverability of long-lived assets. The fair value determination is typically the most judgmental part in an impairment evaluation. Please see Fair Value below for further detail. As part of the impairment evaluation process, management analyzes the sensitivity of fair value to various underlying assumptions. The level of scrutiny increases as the surplus of fair value above carrying amount decreases or becomes negative. Changes in any of these assumptions could result in management reaching a different conclusion regarding the potential impairment, which could be material. Our impairment evaluations inherently involve uncertainties from uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. Further discussion of the impairment charges recognized by the Company can be found within Note 9— and Note 22— to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. Depreciation — Depreciation, after consideration of salvage value and asset retirement obligations, is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which are determined on a composite or component basis. The Company considers many factors in its estimate of useful lives, including expected usage, physical deterioration, technological changes, existence and length of off-taker agreements, and laws and regulations, among others. In certain circumstances, these estimates involve significant judgment and require management to forecast the impact of relevant factors over an extended time horizon. Useful life estimates are continually evaluated for appropriateness as changes in the relevant factors arise, including when a long-lived asset group is tested for recoverability. Depreciation studies are performed periodically for assets subject to composite depreciation. Any change to useful lives is considered a change in accounting estimate and is made on a prospective basis. Fair Value — For information regarding the fair value hierarchy, see Note 1— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. Fair Value of Financial Instruments — A significant number of the Company's financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings or other comprehensive income each period. Investments are generally fair valued based on quoted market prices or other observable market data such as interest rate indices. The Company's investments are primarily certificates of deposit and mutual funds. Derivatives are valued using observable data as inputs into internal valuation models. The Company's derivatives primarily consist of interest rate swaps, foreign currency instruments, and commodity and embedded derivatives. Additional discussion regarding the nature of these financial instruments and valuation techniques can be found in Note 5— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. Fair Value of Nonfinancial Assets and Liabilities — Significant estimates are made in determining the fair value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets (i.e., property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill) during the impairment evaluation process. In addition, the relevant accounting guidance requires the Company to recognize the majority of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination and asset acquisitions by VIEs at fair value. The Company may engage an independent valuation firm to assist management with the valuation. The Company generally utilizes the income approach to value nonfinancial assets and liabilities, specifically a Discounted Cash Flow ("DCF") model to estimate fair value by discounting cash flow forecasts, adjusted to reflect market participant assumptions, to the extent necessary, at an appropriate discount rate. Management applies considerable judgment in selecting several input assumptions during the development of our cash flow forecasts. Examples of the input assumptions that our forecasts are sensitive to include macroeconomic factors such as growth rates, industry demand, inflation, exchange rates, power prices, changes in interest rates, and commodity prices. Whenever appropriate, management obtains these input assumptions from observable market data sources (e.g., Economic Intelligence Unit) and extrapolates the market information if an input assumption is not observable for the entire forecast period. Many of these input assumptions are dependent on other economic assumptions, which are often derived from statistical economic models with inherent limitations such as estimation differences. Further, several input assumptions are based on historical trends which often do not recur. It is not uncommon that different market data sources have different views of the macroeconomic factor expectations and related assumptions. As a result, macroeconomic factors and related assumptions are often available in a narrow range; however, in some situations these ranges become wide and the use of a different set of input assumptions could produce significantly different budgets and cash flow forecasts. A considerable amount of judgment is also applied in the estimation of the discount rate used in the DCF model. To the extent practical, inputs to the discount rate are obtained from market data sources (e.g., Bloomberg). The Company selects and uses a set of publicly traded companies from the relevant industry to estimate the discount rate inputs. Management applies judgment in the selection of such companies based on its view of the most likely market participants. It is reasonably possible that the selection of a different set of likely market participants could produce different input assumptions and result in the use of a different discount rate. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities — We enter into various derivative transactions in order to hedge our exposure to certain market risks. We primarily use derivative instruments to manage our interest rate, commodity, and foreign currency exposures. We do not enter into derivative transactions for trading purposes. See Note 6— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information on the classification. The fair value measurement standard requires the Company to consider and reflect the assumptions of market participants in the fair value calculation. These factors include nonperformance risk (the risk that the obligation will not be fulfilled) and credit risk, both of the reporting entity (for liabilities) and of the counterparty (for assets). Credit risk for AES is evaluated at the level of the entity that is party to the contract. Nonperformance risk on the Company's derivative instruments is an adjustment to the fair value position that is derived from internally developed valuation models that utilize market inputs that may or may not be observable. As a result of uncertainty, complexity, and judgment, accounting estimates related to derivative accounting could result in material changes to our financial statements under different conditions or utilizing different assumptions. As a part of accounting for these derivatives, we make estimates concerning nonperformance, volatilities, market liquidity, future commodity prices, interest rates, credit ratings, and future foreign exchange rates. Refer to Note 5— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for additional details. The fair value of our derivative portfolio is generally determined using internal and third party valuation models, most of which are based on observable market inputs, including interest rate curves and forward and spot prices for currencies and commodities. The Company derives most of its financial instrument market assumptions from market efficient data sources (e.g., Bloomberg, Reuters, and Platt's). In some cases, where market data is not readily available, management uses comparable market sources and empirical evidence to derive market assumptions to determine a financial instrument's fair value. In certain instances, published pricing may not extend through the remaining term of the contract, and management must make assumptions to extrapolate the curve. Specifically, where there is limited forward curve data with respect to foreign exchange contracts beyond the traded points, the Company utilizes the interest rate differential approach to construct the remaining portion of the forward curve. For individual contracts, the use of different valuation models or assumptions could have a material effect on the calculated fair value. Regulatory Assets — Management continually assesses whether regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders applicable to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, any asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Consolidation — The Company enters into transactions impacting the Company's equity interests in its affiliates. In connection with each transaction, the Company must determine whether the transaction impacts the Company's consolidation conclusion by first determining whether the transaction should be evaluated under the variable interest model or the voting model. In determining which consolidation model applies to the transaction, the Company is required to make judgments about how the entity operates, the most significant of which are whether (i) the entity has sufficient equity to finance its activities, (ii) the equity holders, as a group, have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, and (iii) whether the entity has non-substantive voting rights. If the entity is determined to be a variable interest entity, the most significant judgment in determining whether the Company must consolidate the entity is whether the Company, including its related parties and de facto agents, collectively have power and benefits. If AES is determined to have power and benefits, the entity will be consolidated by AES. Alternatively, if the entity is determined to be a voting model entity, the most significant judgments involve determining whether the non-AES shareholders have substantive participating rights. The assessment of shareholder rights and whether they are substantive participating rights requires significant judgment since the rights provided under shareholders' agreements may include selecting, terminating, and setting the compensation of management responsible for implementing the subsidiary's policies and procedures, and establishing operating and capital decisions of the entity, including budgets, in the ordinary course of business. On the other hand, if shareholder rights are only protective in nature (referred to as protective rights), then such rights would not overcome the presumption that the owner of a majority voting interest shall consolidate its investee. Significant judgment is required to determine whether minority rights represent substantive participating rights or protective rights that do not affect the evaluation of control. While both represent an approval or veto right, a distinguishing factor is the underlying activity or action to which the right relates. Pension and Other Postretirement Plans — The Company recognizes a net asset or liability reflecting the funded status of pension and other postretirement plans with current-year changes in actuarial gains or losses recognized in AOCL, except for those plans at certain of the Company's regulated utilities that can recover portions of their pension and postretirement obligations through future rates. The valuation of the Company's benefit obligation, fair value of plan assets, and net periodic benefit costs requires various estimates and assumptions, the most significant of which include the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. These assumptions are reviewed by the Company on an annual basis. Refer to Note 1— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information. Revenue Recognition — The Company recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of energy, capacity, and other services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. In applying the revenue model, we determine whether the sale of energy, capacity, and other services represent a single performance obligation based on the individual market and terms of the contract. Generally, the promise to transfer energy and capacity represent a performance obligation that is satisfied over time and meets the criteria to be accounted for as a series of distinct goods or services. Progress toward satisfaction of a performance obligation is measured using output methods, such as MWhs delivered or MWs made available, and when we are entitled to consideration in an amount that corresponds directly to the value of our performance completed to date, we recognize revenue in the amount to which we have the right to invoice. For further information regarding the nature of our revenue streams and our critical accounting policies affecting revenue recognition, see Note 1— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. Leases — The Company recognizes operating and finance right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for most leases with an initial term of greater than 12 months. Lease liabilities and their corresponding right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected lease term. Our subsidiaries’ incremental borrowing rates are used in determining the present value of lease payments when the implicit rate is not readily determinable. Certain adjustments to the right-of-use asset may be required for items such as prepayments, lease incentives, or initial direct costs. For further information regarding the nature of our leases and our critical accounting policies affecting leases, see Note 1— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. Credit Losses — The Company uses a forward-looking "expected loss" model to recognize allowances for credit losses on trade and other receivables, held-to-maturity debt securities, loans, and other instruments. For available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, the Company continues to measure impairments of available-for-sale securities as was done under previous GAAP, except that unrealized losses due to credit-related factors are now recognized as an allowance on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with a corresponding adjustment to earnings in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. For further information regarding credit losses, see Note 1— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1— included in Item 8.— of this Form 10-K for further information about new accounting pronouncements adopted during 2023 and accounting pronouncements issued, but not yet effective.