********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of the material risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Market Conditions  COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto.  Deterioration of economic conditions, geopolitical tensions or weakening in global capital markets may materially affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Sustained low, declining or negative interest rates, or rapidly increasing interest rates, have materially and adversely affected and may continue to materially and adversely affect our profitability. Reserves and Exposures  The amount and timing of insurance and reinsurance liability claims are difficult to predict and such claims may exceed the related liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses or future policy benefits, or the liabilities associated with certain guaranteed benefits and indexed features accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value.  Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against losses.  Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events.  Concentration of our insurance, reinsurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects.  Following the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, our largest reinsurance counterparty, Fortitude Re, is no longer affiliated with us, and a failure by Fortitude Re to perform its obligations could have a material effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity and the accounting treatment of our reinsurance agreements with Fortitude Re could also lead to volatility in our net income.  Interest rate fluctuations, increased lapses and surrenders, declining investment returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits.  Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by counterparties can materially and adversely affect the value of our investments, our profitability and sources of liquidity.  Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Investment Portfolio and Concentration of Investments  Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the economy, and the performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in interest rates and credit spreads.  Our valuation of investments and derivatives may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity or lead to volatility in our net income. Liquidity, Capital and Credit  AIG Parent’s ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited.  Our internal sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs, including providing capital that may be required by our subsidiaries.  We may not be able to generate cash to meet our needs due to the illiquidity of some of our investments.  A downgrade in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their retention of customers and in-force business and retaining customers and business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, our results of operations or our liquidity. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 21 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors  Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the upcoming phasing out of LIBOR and uncertainty related to LIBOR replacement rates may affect our business and results of operations. Business and Operations  No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will occur or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, the separation could cause the emergence or exacerbate the effects of other risks to which AIG is exposed.  Failure to effectively execute on AIG 200 could result in costs that are greater than expected, savings that are less than expected and disruption to our businesses that could have a material effect on our operations or financial condition.  Pricing for our products is subject to our ability to adequately assess risks and estimate losses.  Guarantees within certain of our products may increase the volatility of our results.  Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations.  Our restructuring initiatives may not yield our expected reductions in expenses and improvements in operational and organizational efficiency.  We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels and the use of third parties may result in additional liabilities.  We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our critical technology systems and data and safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.  Third parties we rely upon to provide certain business and administrative services on our behalf may not perform as anticipated, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.  Business or asset acquisitions and dispositions may expose us to certain risks.  Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. Regulation  Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability.  Actions by foreign governments, regulators and international standard setters could result in substantial additional regulation to which we may be subject. Estimates and Assumptions  Estimates used in the preparation of financial statements and modeled results used in various areas of our business may differ materially from actual experience.  If our businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competition and Employees  We face intense competition in each of our businesses.  Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and managing key employee succession is critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain the key employees and highly skilled people we need to support our business. 22 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Risk Factors Investing in AIG involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in AIG, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of our securities. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect AIG. These factors should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC. Further, many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity above and beyond a risk’s singular impact. MARKET CONDITIONS COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto. The COVID-19 crisis, and the governmental and regulatory responses thereto, are causing ongoing economic and societal disruption. We are continually assessing the impact and, due to the evolving and disruptive nature of the COVID-19 crisis, cannot estimate its ultimate impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot, at this time, estimate the full extent to which the crisis has caused and will continue to cause certain risks to our global business, including those discussed herein, to be heightened or realized. Adverse changes and developments affecting the global economy, including the significant global economic downturn and increased volatility in financial and capital markets and credit spreads, individually and in the aggregate, have had and may continue to have negative effects on our overall investment portfolio. While, to date, the short-term economic impacts of COVID-19 have been largely offset by intervention taken by governments and monetary authorities, it remains difficult to quantify the potential long-term financial impacts on our investment portfolio. Further, as the COVID-19 crisis continues, there can be no assurance that governments and monetary authorities will continue to intervene and if they do, whether such intervention will be successful. Within our investment portfolio, there is concentrated exposure to certain segments of the economy, including real estate and real estate-related investments, which exposes us to negative impacts from the deferral of mortgage payments, renegotiated commercial mortgage loans or outright mortgage defaults, as well as significant exposure to certain industries negatively impacted by the economic downturn, such as energy. There is also the potential for permanent or longer term acceleration in macro trends such as work from home and online shopping that may negatively impact elements of our investment portfolio such as commercial real estate. Moreover, continued low interest rates and the slowdown in the U.S. or global economy, which may continue or increase in severity, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the values of, and the performance of and cash flows derived from, some of the investment assets we hold. These circumstances may also lead to increased defaults or distressed situations among the investments in our investment portfolio. In addition, actions taken by governments as well as monetary authorities such as the FRB have been implemented to curtail the impact of economic disruption in the capital markets. The discontinuation of such programs in advance of substantial economic recovery could adversely impact the performance of our investment portfolio. Finally, market volatility has created and may continue to create dislocations, decreases or variations in observable market activity or availability of information used in the valuation of our assets and liabilities, which could negatively impair the estimates and assumptions used to run our business or result in greater variability and subjectivity in our investment decisions. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 23 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Furthermore, market disruptions and uncertainty have negatively affected and may negatively affect our credit ratings or ratings outlook or our ability to generate or access liquidity we may need to operate our business and meet our obligations, including to pay interest on our debt, discharge or refinance our maturing debt obligations, meet capital needs of our subsidiaries, and to satisfy our regulatory capital and liquidity ratios. If the economic downturn persists or worsens, or economic recovery is prolonged, an increased number of clients and policyholders may face difficulty paying insurance premiums and global regulators may seek to implement new or renew existing premium relief measures to alleviate such difficulties, especially as certain industries, such as travel, are dislocated, which could impair our cash flows. As a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries for its liquidity needs; these subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise generate parent liquidity may, depending on the scope, severity and duration of the COVID-19 crisis, be reduced to the extent they are unable to generate sufficient distributable income or in the event regulators suspend or otherwise restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries to parent companies. We also depend on access to capital markets and other financing sources, including our $4.5 billion revolving syndicated credit facility, and access to these funding sources may become restricted or unavailable, and the terms on which additional financing is available may be adversely affected or limited, if the COVID-19 crisis continues to impair the global economy. Our insurance businesses have experienced and may continue to experience increased claim volume under our Life and Retirement Insurance products, which are offered primarily in the U.S., the jurisdiction that currently has the highest number of COVID-19 cases and deaths worldwide, and our General Insurance policies, which are offered both in the U.S. and internationally, including commercial property (business interruption), travel, trade credit, accident and health, workers’ compensation, directors and officers, event cancellation and liability insurance. Beginning in March 2020, we experienced an increase in mortality claims, which we expect to continue until the COVID-19 crisis subsides, and decreased demand for certain of our insurance product lines, such as travel insurance, and it is unclear when such demand will return. In addition, COVID-19 adversely affected our premiums and deposits in some of our insurance lines, including our Life and Retirement products. If the economic contraction continues or increases in severity, or the economic recovery is prolonged, we expect these impacts will continue in 2021 and possibly beyond. Further, our policies with premium adjustment features tied to exposure levels, as is the case in certain specialty and casualty lines, may be triggered, resulting in premium reductions. In response to the COVID-19 crisis and the resulting ongoing adverse, economic, financial and market impacts, we have made and may continue to make changes to underwriting guidelines or product design. We may also incur higher expenses in our insurance businesses and higher legal costs as a result of coverage disputes, including class actions and other proceedings that have been or may in the future be filed against us, our insureds, or others in the United States, the UK or other jurisdictions seeking coverage for COVID 19-related losses or alleging bad-faith denials of coverage for such losses. The outcome of coverage decisions may in turn affect the perceived value of the products we offer and therefore the demand for them. While we seek to mitigate our exposure to loss through reinsurance, the availability of reinsurance relief will typically depend on several factors, including the timing and nature of how individual claims manifest, which may not be immediately known. Furthermore, due to the scope, severity and uncertain duration of the COVID-19 crisis, reinsurance may not be available or, if available, may be more difficult or costly to obtain in general or for certain types of coverage, such as natural catastrophes, going forward. In addition, reinsurance terms and conditions may change whereby, even if reinsurance is available, the coverage provided may not be the same or similar to the reinsurance terms and conditions currently available in the reinsurance market. Increased economic uncertainty or increased unemployment resulting from the economic impacts of the COVID-19 crisis have resulted and may continue to result in policyholders cancelling or not renewing insurance policies or may result in policyholders seeking sources of liquidity such as policy loans and withdrawals at rates greater than expected. If policyholder behavior, including lapse and surrender rates, significantly exceed or vary from our expectations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, requiring our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits. 24 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Government officials have recommended or mandated precautions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including prohibitions on congregating in heavily populated areas, social distancing requirements, stay-at-home orders and similar measures. As a result, we implemented work-from-home business continuity plans for non-essential staff globally. Our results may be adversely impacted by these and other actions taken to contain or reduce the impact of COVID-19, and the extent of such impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Moreover, the extended remote work environment puts stress on our business continuity plans and may prove them to be less effective than expected. Our business operations may also be significantly disrupted if our critical workforce, key vendors, third-party providers or other counterparties we transact business with, are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government and regulatory actions in response to COVID-19 or other reasons, or if the technology on which our remote business operations rely, some of which is developed and maintained by third parties, is disrupted or impaired or becomes unavailable. Certain pre-existing operational risks have been and may continue to be exacerbated, notably with respect to potential phishing or other cybersecurity-related events and our increased reliance on technology, including technology of our employees and service providers. Other pre-existing operational risks, such as privacy incidents, fraud, operational resilience and risks related to the operations and resiliency of our vendors, third-party providers and other counterparties, may also be exacerbated. Further, significant disruption to our businesses could adversely affect the timing or terms of, or our ability to execute, key business strategies, transactions and initiatives, such as the separation of the Life and Retirement business and AIG 200, resulting in higher costs or reduced savings or lower profit than was expected. As noted herein, legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions following major catastrophes (such as pandemics) could require us to pay insureds beyond the provisions of their original insurance policies and may prohibit the application of a deductible, resulting in inflated and unanticipated catastrophe claims; or impose other restrictions after the occurrence thereof, which would reduce our ability to mitigate exposure. For example, COVID-19 has given rise to regulatory measures intended to encourage or require insurers to assist policyholders adversely impacted by COVID-19 (in some cases with retroactive effect), including lapse, payment or rate increase moratoriums, premium refunds, contributions to relief funds and similar measures. While some of these legislative and regulatory initiatives have expired, with the resurgence of the COVID-19 virus, legislative and regulatory authorities have extended certain of these initiatives and may seek to renew or impose more of them until the COVID-19 crisis subsides. These initiatives could impair our cash flows and, without regulatory relief, could reduce our subsidiaries’ capital ratios. In addition, in certain jurisdictions legislative initiatives have emerged requiring contribution to relief funds or threatening to require insurers to provide insurance coverage beyond the scope of the original contract by re-writing contracts on a retroactive basis, including with respect to the availability of business interruption coverage in commercial property policies, or creating insurance solutions prospectively. Such legislative and regulatory initiatives or court decisions could result in requirements or restrictions that negatively impact our business operations or require us to pay beyond the provisions of original insurance policies and assumed reinsurance contracts. Finally, the adverse impacts of COVID-19 on Federal and state tax revenues could lead to increased taxes and assessments on insurers in order to address budget shortfalls. Models utilizing historic information on correlations among macroeconomic factors, our insurance products and our investment portfolio may not reflect the relationship between macroeconomic factors, our insurance products and our investment portfolio in the current environment, as a result of the unique nature of the pandemic and the intervention by regulators monetary authorities to mitigate the impacts on policyholders and the broader economy. This could increase volatility in estimates. Due to the evolving and disruptive nature of the COVID-19 crisis, we cannot estimate its ultimate impact at this time. Depending on the scope, severity and duration of the COVID-19 crisis, the events described above have adversely affected and may continue to have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we could experience other potential impacts as a result of COVID-19, including, but not limited to, potential impairment charges to the carrying amounts of goodwill, deferred tax assets, and increased reserve builds to levels that are difficult to accurately estimate. Further, new and potentially unforeseen risks beyond those described above and in other Risk Factors herein may arise as a result of the COVID-19 crisis and the actions taken by governmental and regulatory authorities to mitigate its impact. Even after the crisis subsides, it is possible that the U.S. and other major economies will experience a prolonged recession or a prolonged economic recovery, in which event our businesses, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. See also “Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against losses” and “Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events” below. Deterioration of economic conditions, geopolitical tensions or weakening in global capital markets may materially affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our businesses are highly dependent on global economic and market conditions. Weaknesses in economic conditions and the capital markets or market volatility have in the past led, and may in the future lead to, among other consequences, a poor operating environment, erosion of consumer and investor confidence, reduced business volumes, deteriorating liquidity and declines in asset valuations. Adverse economic conditions may result from global economic and political developments, including plateauing business activity and inflationary pressures in developed AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 25 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors economies, civil unrest, uncertainty surrounding China’s ability to successfully maintain growth as well as ongoing trade disputes between the U.S. and China, the effects of Brexit (as defined below) on business investment, hiring, migration and labor supply and intensifying trade protectionism including through tariffs, subsidies and other government actions. These and other market, economic, and political factors could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in many ways, including (i) lower levels of consumer and commercial business activities that have decreased and may continue to decrease revenues and profitability and thus impair goodwill, deferred tax assets or other long-term assets, (ii) widening of credit spreads and higher than expected defaults that could reduce investment asset valuations, increase credit losses across numerous asset classes, and increase statutory capital requirements, (iii) increased market volatility and uncertainty that could decrease liquidity, increase borrowing costs and limit access to capital markets, (iv) the reduction of investment income generated by our investment portfolio, (v) disruption to our business operations in countries experiencing geopolitical tensions as well as increased costs associated with meeting customer needs in such regions, and (vi) impeding our ability to execute strategic transactions. Other ways in which we have in the past been, and could in the future be, negatively affected by economic conditions include, but are not limited to: increases in policy surrenders and cancellations; write-offs of deferred policy acquisition costs; increases in liability for future policy benefits due to loss recognition on certain long-duration insurance and reinsurance contracts; and increases in expenses associated with third-party reinsurance, or decreased ability to obtain reinsurance at acceptable terms . For a discussion regarding the effects of the COVID-19 crisis on the global economy, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Sustained low, declining or negative interest rates, or rapidly increasing interest rates, have materially and adversely affected and may continue to materially and adversely affect our profitability. Interest rates have been declining globally, including in the United States, and in many cases, at or near historic lows. Changes in interest rates may be correlated with inflation trends, which would impact our loss trends. Sustained low interest rates have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect the performance of our investments and reduce the level of investment income earned on our investment portfolios. We experience lower investment income as well as lower sales of new Life and Retirement insurance products and policies when a low or declining U.S. interest rate environment persists, and/or interest rates turn or, in certain circumstances remain negative across various global economies. For example, the low interest rate environment has negatively affected sales of interest rate sensitive products in our industry and negatively impacted the profitability of our existing business as we reinvest cash flows from investments, including due to increased calls and prepayments of fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans, at rates below the average yield of our existing portfolios. Due to practical and capital markets limitations, we have not been and may not be able to fully mitigate our interest rate risk by matching exposure of our assets relative to our liabilities. Continued low levels of interest rates have and could continue to impair our ability to earn the returns assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued. On the other hand, in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products competitive. Therefore, we may have to accept a lower investment spread and, thus, lower profitability, or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. In addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. These impacts may result in significant cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which could result in realized investment losses. An increase in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that constitute a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. This in turn could adversely affect our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Reserves and Exposures The amount and timing of insurance and reinsurance liability claims are difficult to predict and such claims may exceed the related liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses or future policy benefits, or the liabilities associated with certain guaranteed benefits and indexed features accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value. We regularly review the adequacy of the established liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses or future policy benefits, as well as liabilities associated with certain guaranteed benefits and indexed features accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value. We also conduct extensive analyses of our reserves and embedded derivatives during the year. Our liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, future policy benefits and embedded derivatives, however, may develop adversely and materially impact our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 26 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors For General Insurance, estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is a complex process, particularly for both long-tail and medium-tail liability lines of business. These lines include, but are not limited to, excess casualty, workers’ compensation, general liability, commercial automobile liability, environmental and crisis management coverages, Financial Lines, insurance and risk management programs for large corporate customers and other customized structured insurance products, as well as excess and umbrella liability, errors and omissions, products liability, programs and specialty. There is also greater uncertainty in establishing reserves with respect to new business, particularly new business that is generated with respect to more recently introduced product lines. In these cases, there is less historical experience or knowledge and less data upon which the actuaries can rely. Estimating reserves is further complicated by unexpected claims or unintended coverages that emerge due to changing conditions, such as unanticipated claims as a result of COVID-19. These emerging issues may increase the size or number of claims beyond our underwriting intent and may not become apparent for many years after a policy is issued. While we use a number of analytical reserve development techniques to project future loss development, the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses has been and may continue to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in setting the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses. For example, in 2018, we recorded net adverse prior year development of $366 million, in adjusted pre-tax income (loss), to strengthen our General Insurance liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, reflecting adverse development in classes of business with long reporting tails, primarily in Casualty and Financial Lines. Whereas, in 2020 and 2019, we recorded favorable net development of $76 million and $294 million, respectively, including $396 million and $442 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, in U.S. Workers’ Compensation. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be due to changes in actual versus expected claims and losses, difficulties in predicting changes, such as changes in inflation, unemployment duration, or other social or economic factors affecting claims, including the effects of the COVID-19 crisis, judicial and legislative approaches, and changes in the tort environment. Any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time after we record the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year or number of years. For Life and Retirement, establishment and ongoing calculations of future policy benefits is a complex process, with significant judgmental inputs and assumptions. Experience may develop adversely such that additional reserves must be established or the value of embedded derivatives may increase. Adverse experience could arise out of a severe short-term event such as a pandemic or changes to policyholder behavior during stressed economic periods, or due to misestimation of long-term assumptions such as mortality, mortality improvement, interest rate, equity market and expense assumptions. Certain variables, such as policyholder behavior can be difficult to estimate and have a significant impact on reserves and embedded derivatives. Life and Retirement future policy benefits and embedded derivatives and related assumptions are reviewed regularly and we regularly carry out loss recognition and cash flow testing. For a further discussion of our loss reserves see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Insurance Liabilities – Loss Reserves and Insurance Reserves – Loss Reserves and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For more information regarding these products see Notes 5 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 1. Business – Regulation, and Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity Products. Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against losses. Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of third-party reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management strategy. Our reinsurance business also purchases retrocessional reinsurance, which allows a reinsurer to cede to another company all or part of the reinsurance obligations originally assumed by the reinsurer. While reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their obligation to pay claims for losses insured or reinsured under our policies, it does make the reinsurer liable to the subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk. For this reason, reinsurance is an important tool to manage transaction and insurance line risk retention and to mitigate losses, including as a result of catastrophes. Market conditions beyond our control may impact the availability and cost of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain after a year with a large number of major catastrophes. We may, at certain times, be forced to incur additional costs for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms. In the latter case, we would have to accept an increase in exposure to risk, reduce the amount of business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives in line with our risk limits or a combination thereof. Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries’ reinsurers to the extent the reinsurance receivable is not secured, or is inadequately secured, by collateral or does not benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer is, or may be, unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as reinsurance recoverables for any reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not reflect the intent of the parties to the contract or there is a disagreement between the parties as to their intent, (ii) the terms of the contract cannot be legally enforced, (iii) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court or arbitration panel differently than expected, (iv) the reinsurance transaction performs differently than we anticipated due to a flawed design of the reinsurance structure, terms or conditions, or (v) a change in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 27 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors and regulations, materially impacts a reinsurance transaction. The insolvency of one or more of our reinsurers, or the inability or unwillingness of such reinsurers to make timely payments under the terms of our contracts or payments in an amount equal to our reinsurance recoverable, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the use of reinsurance placed in the capital markets may not provide the same levels of protection as traditional reinsurance transactions. Any disruption, volatility and uncertainty in these markets, such as following a major catastrophic event, may limit our ability to access such markets on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, to the extent that we intend to use structures based on an industry loss index or other non-indemnity trigger rather than on actual losses incurred by us, we could be subject to residual risk. We currently have limited catastrophe reinsurance coverage for terrorist attacks. Further, the availability of private sector reinsurance for terrorism is limited. We benefit from the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA), which provides U.S. government risk assistance to the insurance industry to manage the exposure to terrorism incidents in the U.S. TRIPRA was reauthorized in December 2019 for a further seven years. Under TRIPRA, once our losses for certain acts of terrorism exceed a deductible equal to 20 percent of our direct commercial property and casualty insurance premiums for covered lines for the prior calendar year, the federal government will reimburse us for 80 percent of losses in excess of our deductible, up to a total industry program limit of $100 billion. TRIPRA does not cover losses in certain lines of business such as personal property and personal casualty. We also rely on the government sponsored and government arranged terrorism reinsurance programs, including pools, in force in applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. For additional information on our reinsurance recoverable, see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Reinsurance Activities – Reinsurance Recoverable . For a discussion regarding the impact of the Majority Interest Fortitude sale on our reinsurance program, see “Following the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, our largest reinsurance counterparty, Fortitude Re, is no longer affiliated with us, and a failure by Fortitude Re to perform its obligations could have a material effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity and could also lead to volatility in our net income” below. For a discussion regarding the effects of the COVID-19 crisis on our reinsurance program, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events. Events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, flooding, earthquakes, wildfires, solar storms, war or other military action, acts of terrorism, explosions and fires, cyber-crimes, product defects, pandemics, such as COVID-19, and other highly contagious diseases, mass torts, civil unrest and other catastrophes have adversely affected our business in the past and could do so in the future. For example, we incurred pre-tax catastrophe losses of $2.4 billion in 2020, which included losses in our General Insurance business from the COVID-19 crisis, windstorms and hailstorms, hurricanes, wildfires and civil unrest, and pre-tax catastrophe losses of $1.3 billion in 2019, which included losses from typhoons in Japan, Hurricane Dorian, a tornado in Dallas and wildfires in California. Catastrophic events, and any relevant regulations, could result in losses in any business in which we operate, and could expose us to:  widespread claim costs associated with property, workers’ compensation, accident and health, travel, business interruption and mortality and morbidity claims;  loss resulting from a decline in the value of our invested assets;  limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets;  loss resulting from actual policy experience that is adverse compared to the assumptions made in product pricing;  revenue loss due to decline in customer base;  declines in value and/or losses with respect to companies and other entities whose securities we hold and counterparties we transact business with and have credit exposure to, including reinsurers; and  significant disruptions to our physical infrastructure, systems and operations. Natural and man-made catastrophic events are generally unpredictable. Our exposure to catastrophe-related loss depends on various factors, including the frequency and severity of the catastrophes, the availability of reinsurance, the rate of inflation and the value and geographic or other concentrations of insured companies and individuals. Vendor models and proprietary assumptions and processes that we use to manage catastrophe exposure may prove to be ineffective due to incorrect assumptions or estimates. For example, modeling for terrorism, cyber events and pandemics may be more difficult and less reliable. 28 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions following major catastrophes (both natural and man-made) could require us to pay the insured beyond the provisions of the original insurance policy and may prohibit the application of a deductible, resulting in inflated and unanticipated claims; or impose other restrictions after the occurrence of a major catastrophe, which would reduce our ability to mitigate exposure. For further details on potential catastrophic events, including a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks . For a discussion regarding the effects of climate change on our business, see “Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition” below. For a discussion regarding the effects of the COVID-19 crisis on our business, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Concentration of our insurance, reinsurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects. We are exposed to risks as a result of concentrations in our insurance and reinsurance policies, investments, derivatives and other obligations that we undertake for customers and counterparties. We manage these concentration risks by monitoring the accumulation of our exposures to factors such as exposure type and size, industry, geographic region, counterparty and other factors. We also seek to use third-party reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed the retention and risk appetite limits we define as part of our Risk Appetite Statement. In certain circumstances, however, these risk management arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may prove to be ineffective for certain exposures. Our risk exposures under insurance and reinsurance policies, derivatives and other obligations are, from time to time, compounded by risk exposure assumed in our investment business. Also, our exposure for certain single risk coverages and other coverages may be so large that adverse experience compared to our expectations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or result in additional statutory capital requirements for our subsidiaries. In addition, the proposed separation of our Life and Retirement business, if consummated, could increase the materiality of these potential concentrations in the remaining portfolio. For further discussion of risks associated with the separation of the Life and Retirement business from AIG, see “No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will occur or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, the separation could cause the emergence or exacerbate the effects of other risks to which AIG is exposed” below. Also see Item 7. MD&A – Business Segment Operations – General Insurance – Business Strategy and – Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors, and Item 7. MD&A – Business Segment Operations – Life and Retirement – Business Strategy and – Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors. Following the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, our largest reinsurance counterparty, Fortitude Re, is no longer affiliated with us, and a failure by Fortitude Re to perform its obligations could have a material effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity and the accounting treatment of our reinsurance agreements with Fortitude Re could also lead to volatility in our net income. As of June 2, 2020, we consummated the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, upon which Fortitude Holdings, the parent of Fortitude Re, became controlled 71.5% by affiliates of The Carlyle Group Inc. and 25% by affiliates of T&D Holdings, Inc., and our ownership interest in Fortitude Holdings was reduced to 3.5%. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $30.5 billion of reserves from AIG’s Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and approximately $4.1 billion of reserves from AIG’s General Insurance Run-Off Lines, related to business written by multiple wholly-owned AIG subsidiaries, had been ceded to Fortitude Re under these reinsurance transactions. While we retained a seat on the board of managers of Fortitude Holdings, our ability to influence its operations going forward will be very limited. Our subsidiaries continue to remain primarily liable to policyholders under the business reinsured with Fortitude Re. As a result, and if Fortitude Re is unable to successfully operate independently, or other issues arise that affect its financial condition or ability to satisfy or perform its obligations to our subsidiaries under the various reinsurance arrangements in force between Fortitude Re and such subsidiaries, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity to the extent the amount of collateral posted in respect of our reinsurance receivable is inadequate. Further, upon the occurrence of certain triggers on the part of Fortitude Re under the applicable reinsurance agreements, our subsidiaries may elect or may be required, to recapture the business ceded under such reinsurance agreements, which would result in a substantial increase to our net insurance liabilities. In addition, pursuant to certain risk-sharing arrangements, AIG may be required to pay Fortitude Re for certain adverse development in property casualty related reserves, based on an agreed methodology, that may occur on or prior to December 31, 2023, up to a maximum payment of $500 million. Furthermore, the accounting treatment for the various reinsurance agreements can lead to volatility in our net income. These reinsurance transactions between AIG and Fortitude Re were structured as modified coinsurance (modco) for the Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and loss portfolio transfer arrangements with funds withheld (funds withheld) for the General Insurance Run-Off Lines. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 29 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors In modco and funds withheld arrangements, the investments supporting the reinsurance agreements, and which reflect the majority of the consideration that would be paid to the reinsurer for entering into the transaction, are withheld by, and therefore continue to reside on the balance sheet of, the ceding company (i.e., AIG and its subsidiaries) thereby creating an obligation for the ceding company to pay the reinsurer (i.e., Fortitude Re) at a later date. Additionally, as AIG maintains ownership of these investments, AIG will maintain its existing accounting for these assets (e.g., the changes in fair value of available for sale securities will be recognized within other comprehensive income). As a result of the deconsolidation resulting from the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, AIG has established a funds withheld payable to Fortitude Re while simultaneously establishing a reinsurance asset representing reserves for the insurance coverage that Fortitude Re has assumed. The funds withheld payable contains an embedded derivative and changes in fair value of the embedded derivative related to the funds withheld payable are recognized in earnings through realized capital gains (losses). This embedded derivative is considered a total return swap with contractual returns that are attributable to various assets and liabilities associated with these reinsurance agreements. For further discussion on the sale of Fortitude Holdings see Item 7 MD&A – Consolidated Results of Operations. For further discussion of our exposure to credit risk of reinsurers, see “Reinsurance may not be available or affordable and may not be adequate to protect us against losses” above. Interest rate fluctuations, increased lapses and surrenders, declining investment returns and other events may require our subsidiaries to accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits. We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. DAC represents deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. The recovery of these costs is generally dependent upon the future profitability of the related business, but DAC amortization varies based on the type of contract. For long-duration traditional business, DAC is generally amortized in proportion to premium revenue and varies with lapse experience. Actual lapses in excess of expectations can result in an acceleration of DAC amortization, and therefore, adversely impact our pre-tax income. DAC for investment-oriented products is generally amortized in proportion to actual and estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are affected by a number of factors, including levels of current and expected interest rates, net investment income and spreads, net realized capital gains and losses, fees, surrender rates, mortality experience, policyholder behavior experience and equity market returns and volatility. If actual and/or future estimated gross profits are less than originally expected, then the amortization of these costs would be accelerated in the period this is determined and would result in a charge to income. For example, if interest rates rise rapidly and significantly, customers with policies that have interest crediting rates below the current market may seek competing products with higher returns and we may experience an increase in surrenders and withdrawals of life and annuity contracts, and thereby a strain on cash flow. Additionally, this would also result in a decrease in expected future profitability and an acceleration of the amortization of DAC, and therefore lower than expected pre-tax income earned during the then current period. We also periodically review products for potential loss recognition events, principally insurance-oriented products. This review involves estimating the future profitability of in-force business and requires significant management judgment about assumptions including, but not limited to, mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns, including net realized capital gains (losses). If actual experience or revised future expectations result in projected future losses, we may be required to amortize any remaining DAC and record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense in the then current period, which could negatively affect our results of operations. For further discussion of DAC and future policy benefits, see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 9 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by counterparties can materially and adversely affect the value of our investments, our profitability and sources of liquidity. We are exposed to credit risk arising from exposures to various counterparties related to investments, derivatives, premiums receivable, certain General Insurance businesses and reinsurance recoverables. These counterparties include, but are not limited to, issuers of fixed income and equity securities we hold, borrowers of loans we hold, customers, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivatives contracts, reinsurers, corporate and governmental entities whose payments or performance we insure, joint venture partners, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other third parties, financial intermediaries and guarantors. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, financial distress, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention and other reasons. In addition, for exchange-traded derivatives, such as futures, options as well as "cleared" over-the-counter derivatives, we are generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant central counterparty clearing house and futures commission merchants through which we clear derivatives. Defaults by these counterparties on their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. 30 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Additionally, if the underlying assets supporting the structured securities we invest in are expected to default or actually default on their payment obligations, our securities may incur losses. Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition. AIG supports the scientific consensus that climate change is a reality of increasing global concern. Climate change, indicated by higher concentrations of greenhouse gases, a warming atmosphere and ocean, wildfires, diminished snow and ice, and sea level rise, appears to have contributed to unpredictability, increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters and the creation of uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. As such, climate change potentially poses serious financial implications for the insurance industry in areas such as underwriting, claims and investments, as well as risk capacity, financial reserving and operations. Climate change exposes us to physical risks which may challenge our ability to effectively underwrite, model and price catastrophe risk particularly if the frequency and severity of catastrophic events such as pandemics, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, wildfires and windstorms and other natural disasters continue to increase. For example, losses resulting from actual policy experience may be adverse as compared to the assumptions made in product pricing as well as mortality assumptions and our ability to mitigate our exposure may be reduced. Climate change-related risks may also adversely impact the value of the securities that we hold or lead to increased credit risk of other counterparties we transact business with, including reinsurers. Our reputation or corporate brand could also be negatively impacted as a result of changing customer or societal perceptions of organizations that we either insure or invest in due to their actions (or lack thereof) with respect to climate change. In addition, regulators have imposed and may continue to impose new requirements or issue new guidance aimed at addressing or mitigating climate change-related risks. These emerging regulatory initiatives, or any policies adopted by investors to address changing societal perceptions on climate change, could result in increased compliance cost to our businesses and changes to our corporate governance and risk management practices, and may affect the type of assets we hold in our investment portfolio. We cannot predict the long-term impacts of climate change on our business and results of operations. For a discussion regarding risks associated with other catastrophic events, see “Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events” above. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the economy, and the performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including changes in interest rates and credit spreads. Our results of operations and financial condition have in the past been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by the degree of concentration in our investment portfolio. For example, we have significant exposure to real estate and real estate-related investments, including residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and residential and commercial mortgage loans. We also have significant exposures to financial institutions and, in particular, to money center banks and global banks, certain industries, such as energy and utilities, the U.S. federal, state and local government issuers and authorities, and global financial institutions, governments and corporations. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may adversely affect the valuation of our investments to the extent they are concentrated in such segments. Our ability to sell assets in such segments may be limited. In addition, the COVID-19 crisis may exacerbate the risks of a concentrated investment portfolio given market volatility. For a discussion regarding the effects of the COVID-19 crisis on our investment portfolio, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Our investments are also subject to market risks and uncertainties, including, in addition to interest rate risk, changes in the level of credit spreads, currency rates, and commodity and equity prices, each of which has affected and will continue to affect the value of investments in our investment portfolio as well as the performance of, and returns generated by, such investments. The discontinuation of actions taken by legislators and monetary authorities in advance of substantial economic recovery could adversely impact the performance of our investment portfolio. For a discussion regarding risks associated with interest rate volatility, see “Sustained low, declining or negative interest rates, or rapidly increasing interest rates, have materially and adversely affected and may continue to materially and adversely affect our profitability” above. Furthermore, our alternative investment portfolio, which is subject to increased volatility in equity markets, includes investments for which changes in fair value are reported through pre-tax income. An economic downturn or decline in the capital markets may have a material adverse effect on our investment income, including as a result of decreases in the fair value of alternative investments. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 31 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Our valuation of investments and derivatives may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity or lead to volatility in our net income. During periods of market disruption, it has been and may continue to be difficult to value certain of our investments or derivatives if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the financial environment or market conditions in effect at that time. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods that are more complex. These values may not be realized in a market transaction, may not reflect the value of the asset and may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value and/or an inability to realize that value in a market transaction or other disposition may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For a discussion regarding volatility in accounting as it relates to Fortitude Re, see “Following the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, our largest reinsurance counterparty, Fortitude Re, is no longer affiliated with us, and a failure by Fortitude Re to perform its obligations could have a material effect on our business, results of operations or liquidity and could also lead to volatility in our net income” above. LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL AND CREDIT AIG Parent’s ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited. As a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividends on AIG Common Stock and Preferred Stock, to fund repurchases of AIG Common Stock and debt obligations and to make payments due on its obligations, including its outstanding debt. The majority of our investments are held by our regulated subsidiaries. Certain of our subsidiaries are limited in their ability to make dividend payments or other distributions to AIG Parent in the future because of the need to support their own capital levels or because of regulatory limits and restrictions or rating agency requirements. Our decision to pursue strategic changes or transactions in our business and operations may also subject our subsidiaries’ dividend plans to heightened regulatory scrutiny and could make obtaining regulatory approvals for extraordinary distributions by our subsidiaries, if any are sought, more difficult. We are also subject to certain other restrictions on our capital from time to time. For example, following the closing of the sale of our controlling interest in Fortitude Holdings in June 2020, we contributed approximately $835 million of the proceeds to certain of our insurance company subsidiaries. The inability of our subsidiaries to make payments, dividends or other distributions in an amount sufficient to enable AIG Parent to meet its cash requirements could have an adverse effect on our operations, and on our ability to pay dividends, repurchase AIG Common Stock and debt obligations or to meet our debt service obligations. Our internal sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs, including providing capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. We need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt, maturing debt obligations and to meet capital needs of our subsidiaries, including to maintain regulatory capital ratios, comply with rating agency requirements and meet unexpected cash flow obligations as well as pursuant to capital maintenance agreements we have in place with certain subsidiaries. If our liquidity is insufficient to meet our needs, at such time, we may need to have recourse to third-party financing, external capital markets or other sources of liquidity, which may not be available or could be prohibitively expensive. The availability and cost of any additional financing at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including general market conditions, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit, regulatory actions and our credit ratings and credit capacity. It is also possible that, as a result of such recourse to external financing, customers, lenders or investors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Disruptions, volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets, and downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings, may limit our ability to access external capital markets at times and on terms favorable to us to meet our capital and liquidity needs or prevent our accessing the external capital markets or other financing sources. If AIG Parent is unable to satisfy a capital need of a subsidiary, the credit rating agencies could downgrade the subsidiary’s financial strength ratings or the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in certain cases, could be seized by its regulator. For a further discussion of our liquidity, see Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources. For further discussion of rating agency requirements, see “A downgrade by one or more of the rating agencies in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and impair their retention of customers and in-force business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, our results of operations or our liquidity” below . We may not be able to generate cash to meet our needs due to the illiquidity of some of our investments. Our subsidiaries have a diversified investment portfolio. However, economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers, the inability of potential buyers to obtain financing on reasonable terms, volatility, credit spread changes, interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rates and/or decline in collateral values have in the past impacted, and may in the future impact, the liquidity and value of our investments. 32 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors For example, we have made investments in certain securities that are generally considered illiquid, including certain fixed income securities and certain structured securities, privately placed securities, investments in private equity funds and hedge funds, mortgage loans, finance receivables and real estate. Collectively, investments in these assets had a fair value of $65 billion at December 31, 2020. Adverse changes in the valuation of real estate and real estate-linked assets, deterioration of capital markets and widening credit spreads have in the past, and may in the future, materially adversely affect the liquidity and the value of our investment portfolios, including our residential and commercial mortgage related securities portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more of our companies, it may be difficult for us to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing these or other of our investments at reasonable prices and time frames . A downgrade by one or more of the rating agencies in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and impair their retention of customers and in-force business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our liquidity. Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance or reinsurance companies. IFS ratings measure an insurance or reinsurance company’s ability to meet its obligations to contract holders and policyholders. Credit rating agencies estimate a company’s ability to meet its ongoing financial obligations and high IFS and credit ratings help maintain public confidence in a company’s products, facilitate marketing of products and enhance its competitive position. Downgrades of the IFS ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could prevent these companies from selling, or make it more difficult for them to succeed in selling, products and services, or result in increased policy cancellations, lapses and surrenders, termination of, or increased collateral posting obligations under, assumed reinsurance contracts, or return of premiums. Under credit rating agency policies concerning the relationship between parent and subsidiary ratings, a downgrade in AIG Parent’s credit ratings could result in a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries. Similarly, under credit rating agency policies, a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries could also result in a downgrade in AIG Parent’s credit ratings. In addition, a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings by one or more of the major rating agencies could potentially increase our financing costs and limit the availability of financing. A downgrade would also require us to post additional collateral payments related to derivative transactions to which we are a party, and could permit the termination of these derivative transactions. This could adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of operations in a reporting period and/or our liquidity. In response to the announcement by AIG in October 2020 of its intention to separate the Life and Retirement business from AIG, Fitch placed the credit ratings of AIG on “Rating Watch Negative,” Moody’s placed the debt ratings of AIG on review for downgrade and S&P placed the credit ratings of AIG and the financial strength ratings of most of the General Insurance subsidiaries on CreditWatch with negative implications. Moody’s and Fitch affirmed the financial strength ratings and outlooks on AIG’s insurance subsidiaries. Rating agencies may take further actions, including as a result of any decisions relating to our intent to separate our Life and Retirement business, which could adversely affect our business. For a further discussion of rating agency actions in response to AIG’s announced intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG, see Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Recent Rating Agency Actions. Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the upcoming phasing out of LIBOR and uncertainty related to LIBOR replacement rates may affect our business and results of operations. The UK Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2017 that it would no longer compel banks to submit London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) rates after 2021. On November 30, 2020, the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited (“IBA”), which is supervised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority, announced a proposal to extend the publication of the most commonly used USD LIBOR settings until June 30, 2023. However, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency continue to strongly encourage banks to cease entering into new contracts that use USD LIBOR as a reference rate as soon as practicable and in any event by December 31, 2021. Since the initial announcement in 2017, we have been monitoring developments and determining how our hedging strategies, asset portfolio, liabilities, systems and operations may be affected in, and in the transition to, a post-LIBOR environment. Potential changes to LIBOR, as well as uncertainty related to such potential changes and the establishment of any alternative reference rates, may adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities and could adversely impact the substantial amount of derivatives contracts used to hedge our assets, insurance and other liabilities. In addition, the discontinuance of LIBOR or changes or reforms to the determination or supervision of LIBOR may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported LIBOR, which could have an adverse impact on the market for LIBOR-based securities or the value of our investment portfolio and the derivatives contracts used to hedge our assets, insurance and other liabilities. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 33 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors While markets are developing alternative reference rates, questions concerning liquidity and how to appropriately adjust these rates to eliminate any economic value transfer at the time of transition remain a significant concern for us and others in the marketplace. The effect of any changes or reforms to LIBOR or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure or on our businesses will vary depending on (i) existing fallback provisions in individual contracts and (ii) whether, how, and when industry participants develop and widely adopt alternative reference rates and fallbacks for both legacy and new products or instruments. At this time, because the response of markets to these potential alternative reference rates is still evolving, we cannot predict the effect of any changes to or discontinuation of LIBOR on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure and our liability profile. Internal actions taken to address the transition from LIBOR and to mitigate potential risks include, among other things, ensuring new legal contracts and our asset and debt issuances reference appropriate LIBOR fallback provisions and identifying fallback provisions in existing contracts and investments which mature after the relevant LIBOR phase-out date, updating valuation and actuarial models which utilize LIBOR, determining the impact of new accounting and tax requirements, adjusting applicable technology applications to be able to support both LIBOR and new alternative rates and executing test trades for derivatives, assets and debt issuances utilizing the new alternative reference rates. We also participate in certain LIBOR replacement working groups under the auspices of ISDA and the U.S. based Alternative Reference Rate Committee (ARRC) and conduct periodic discussions with our industry peers, banking institutions and the relevant administrators of LIBOR and the ARRC in order to monitor, provide appropriate feedback and otherwise participate in discussions regarding the transition from LIBOR. We continue to actively monitor both market and regulatory changes in order to prepare for any discontinuation of the LIBOR benchmark. We may be required to post additional collateral because of changes in our reinsurance liabilities to regulated insurance companies, or because of regulatory changes that affect our businesses. In the ordinary course of our business, we are required to post collateral for our insurance company subsidiaries from time to time. If our reinsurance liabilities increase, we may be required to post additional collateral for insurance company clients that we reinsure. In addition, regulatory changes could require us to post additional collateral. The need to post this additional collateral, if significant enough, may require us to sell investments at a loss in order to provide securities of suitable credit quality or otherwise secure adequate capital at an unattractive cost. This could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Business and operations No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will occur or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, the separation could cause the emergence or exacerbate the effects of other risks to which AIG is exposed. On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. Similar to other business dispositions, the separation involves a number of risks, including (i) unanticipated developments that may delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect our ability to effect a separation; (ii) significant costs and disruption or distraction of management from AIG’s other business operations, whether or not a separation is completed; (iii) satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including approval by the AIG Board of Directors, and receipt of insurance and other required regulatory approvals, and satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission; (iv) other regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements or delay or impede completion of a separation; (v) rating agency actions; (vi) unforeseen losses, liabilities or asset impairment arising from the structure of any definitive separation transaction; and (vii) if we are successful in separating the business, increased concentration of our business operations. No assurance can be given regarding the structure of the initial disposition of up to a 19.9% interest in the Life and Retirement business or the specific terms or timing thereof, or that a separation will in fact occur. In addition, the separation of our Life and Retirement business, if consummated, could cause the emergence or exacerbate the effects of many of the other risks noted herein, including: (i) the risk of indemnity claims that could be made against us in connection with divested businesses; (ii) our ability to utilize certain tax loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income; (iii) competition for employees and managing retention of key employees; (iv) maintaining relationships with certain key distributors; (v) concentration of our insurance and other risk exposures; and (vi) increased exposure to certain risks related to deriving revenue from non-U.S. sources. A significant delay in the consummation of the separation could also exacerbate these risks. For a discussion regarding risks associated with rating agency actions, see “A downgrade by one or more of the rating agencies in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and impair their retention of customers and in-force business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, our results of operations and our liquidity” above. In addition, see Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Recent Rating Agency Actions; see also “Business or asset acquisitions and dispositions may expose us to certain risks” below. 34 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Failure to effectively execute on AIG 200 could result in costs that are greater than expected, savings that are less than expected and disruption to our businesses that could have a material effect on our operations or financial condition. In 2019, we announced AIG 200, our global, multi-year and enterprise-wide program involving transformational change across the Company. AIG 200 is comprised of ten operational programs mapped against four core objectives that are complex and require significant investment and resource prioritization. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits from these operational programs, and the work we are undertaking could result in disruption to our businesses and loss of talent. Other risks associated with AIG 200 include delays in execution across the programs, particularly with respect to implementation of technology platforms, lack of sufficient resources to execute on a timely basis, inefficiencies stemming from changes that may be required to programs or sequencing, failure to meet operational and financial targets due to additional priorities or other factors, and the inability to secure regulatory approvals, if and when needed. These risks may impair our ability to achieve anticipated improvements in our businesses or may otherwise harm our operations which could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and cash flow. Pricing for our products is subject to our ability to adequately assess risks and estimate losses. We seek to price our insurance and reinsurance products such that premiums, policy fees and other charges and future net investment income earned on revenues received will result in an acceptable profit in excess of expected claims, assumed expense loads and the cost of capital. Our business is dependent on our ability to price our products effectively and charge appropriate premiums. Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors and assumptions, including proper evaluation of insurance risks, our expense levels, net investment income realized, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, legal and regulatory developments and the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes. For example, some of our life insurance policies and annuity contracts provide management the right to adjust certain nonguaranteed charges or benefits and interest crediting rates if necessary; however, this right is limited and may be subject to guaranteed minimums or maximums, and the exercise of these rights could result in reputational and/or litigation risk. Inadequate pricing could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations and our financial condition. Guarantees within certain of our products may increase the volatility of our results. Certain of our annuity and life insurance products include features that guarantee a certain level of benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB), guaranteed living benefits (GLB), and products with guaranteed interest crediting rates, including crediting rate guarantees tied to the performance of various market indices. For a discussion of market risk management related to these product features see Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Risk Management and Hedging Programs . For example, differences between the change in fair value of the embedded derivatives associated with GLBs and the value of the related hedging portfolio are caused by extreme and unanticipated movements in the level of equity markets, interest rates and market volatility, policyholder behavior that differs from our assumptions and our inability to purchase hedging instruments or reinsurance at prices consistent with the desired risk and return trade-off. The occurrence of one or more of these events has in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, an increase in the fair value of liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits or decline in the value of our hedges without an offsetting decline in our liabilities, thus reducing our pre-tax net income and shareholders’ equity. While we believe that our actions have reduced the risks related to guaranteed benefits and guaranteed interest crediting, our risk exposures are not fully, and may not be effectively, hedged. For more information regarding these products see Notes 5 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 1. Business – Regulation and Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity Products . Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations. We provide insurance, reinsurance, investment and other financial products and services to both businesses and individuals in approximately 80 countries and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the U.S., and we intend to continue to grow business in strategic markets. Operations outside the U.S. have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political events or upheaval, nationalization and other restrictive government or regulatory actions, which could also affect our other operations. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local licenses may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Consequently, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in some of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations, depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 35 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors In addition, AIG Parent and its subsidiaries are subject to various extraterritorial laws and regulations, including such laws adopted by the U.S. that affect how we do business around the world. These laws and regulations may conflict and we may incur penalties and/or reputational harm if we fail to adhere to them. For example, increased international data localization and cross-border data transfer regulatory restrictions may affect how we do business around the world and may cause us to incur penalties and/or suffer reputational harm. On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom (UK) held a referendum in which a majority voted for the UK to withdraw its membership in the European Union (EU), commonly referred to as Brexit. The UK left the EU on January 31, 2020. Under the negotiated withdrawal agreement, there was an 11 month “transition period” during which EU rules continued to apply in the UK and negotiations continued to determine the future relationship between the UK and EU. On December 24, 2020, a Trade and Cooperation Agreement was reached between the UK and the EU, which applies provisionally from January 1, 2021 until February 28, 2021, and is expected to be extended until April 30, 2021. The full text of the agreement is yet to be approved by the EU member states and European parliaments. We have significant operations and employees in the UK and other EU member states, and, as a result of Brexit, we have completed a reorganization of our operations and legal entity structure in the UK and the EU through the establishment of a European subsidiary in Luxembourg with branches across the EEA and Switzerland, and a UK subsidiary. For additional information regarding the reorganization of our European operations in light of Brexit, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – International Regulation – Brexit . However, there still remains uncertainty around the post-Brexit regulatory environment as the provisions of the new agreement do not cover certain business areas, e.g., financial services. Brexit has also affected and could continue to affect the U.S. dollar/British pound exchange rate, increased the volatility of exchange rates among the euro, British pound and the Japanese yen, and created volatility in the financial markets. It is possible that the uncertainty around the effects of the end of the transition period will lead to further turbulence in the financial markets, which may affect the value of our investments and the capital invested in our UK and EU subsidiaries . Our restructuring initiatives may not yield our expected reductions in expenses and improvements in operational and organizational efficiency. Outside of our AIG 200 transformational program and announced plan to separate the Life and Retirement business, we continue to undertake certain restructuring initiatives in the ordinary course of business. We may not be able to fully realize the anticipated expense reductions and operational and organizational efficiency improvements we expect to result from our regional and operational restructuring initiatives. Actual costs to implement these initiatives may exceed our estimates or we may be unable to fully implement and execute these initiatives as planned. The implementation of these initiatives may harm our relationships with customers or employees or our competitive position. Our businesses and results of operations may be negatively impacted if we are unable to realize these anticipated expense reductions and efficiency improvements or if implementing these initiatives harms our relationships with customers or employees or our competitive position. The successful implementation of these initiatives may continue to require us to effect workforce reductions, business rationalizations, systems enhancements, business process outsourcing, business and asset dispositions and acquisitions and other actions, which depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels and the use of third parties may result in additional liabilities. Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we maintain relationships with certain key distributors. Distributors have in the past, and may in the future, elect to renegotiate the terms of existing relationships, limit the products they sell, including the types of products offered by us, or otherwise reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us. This could be due to various reasons, such as industry consolidation of distributors or other industry changes that increase the competition for access to distributors, developments in laws or regulations that affect our business or industry, including the marketing and sale of our products and services, adverse developments in our business, strategic decisions that impact our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. An interruption or reduction in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we are responsible for the actions of our employees and can, in certain circumstances, be held responsible for the actions of our third-party distributors, including broker dealers, registered representatives, insurance agents and agencies and marketing organizations, in connection with the marketing and sale of our products by such parties in a manner that is deemed not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. This is particularly acute with respect to unaffiliated distributors. If our products are distributed to customers for whom they are unsuitable or distributed in a manner deemed inappropriate, we could suffer reputational and/or other financial harm to our business . For a discussion regarding suitability standards, Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation . We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our critical technology systems and data and safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and use customer, employee, and company data and information. Some of these systems, in turn, rely upon third-party 36 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors systems, which themselves may rely on the systems of other third parties. Additionally, some of our systems are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions. These functions include providing insurance or reinsurance quotes, processing premium payments, making changes to existing policies, filing and paying claims, administering life and annuity products and mutual funds, providing customer support, executing transactions and managing our investment portfolios. Systems failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers and expose us to legal claims as well as regulatory investigations and sanctions. In the event of a natural disaster, a computer virus, unauthorized access, a terrorist attack, cyberattack or other disruption inside or outside the U.S., our systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time, and we may be unable to perform our duties for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled, manipulated, destroyed or otherwise compromised. Like other global companies, the systems we maintain and third party systems we use have in the past been, and will likely in the future be, subject to or targets of unauthorized or fraudulent access, including physical or electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering, as well as attempted cyber and other security threats and other computer-related penetrations. Also, like other global companies, we have an increasing challenge of attracting and retaining highly qualified security personnel to assist us in combatting these security threats. The frequency and sophistication of such threats continue to increase and often become further heightened in connection with geopolitical tensions. We must continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure in an effort to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, ransomware, unauthorized access, business e-mail compromise, misuse, denial-of-service attacks, system failures and disruptions. There is no assurance that our security measures, including information security policies, administrative, technical and physical controls and other actions designed as preventative, will provide fully effective protection from such events. AIG maintains cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not cover all costs associated with the consequences of personal, confidential or proprietary information being compromised. In some cases, such compromise may not be immediately detected. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential and secure, we may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect personal, confidential or proprietary information. Any problems caused by these third parties, including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in information technology services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, cyber-attacks and security breaches at a vendor have in the past, and could in the future, adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers and otherwise conduct our business. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the European Union or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the information of clients, employees or others. The variety of applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations exposes us to heightened regulatory scrutiny and requires us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses in an effort to ensure and maintain compliance. If we are found not to be in compliance with these laws and regulations, we could be subjected to significant civil and criminal liability and exposed to reputational harm. For additional information on data protection and cybersecurity regulations, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity and – International Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity, and Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Operational Risk Management – Cybersecurity Risk. Additionally, the compromise of personal, confidential or proprietary information could cause a loss of data, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under U.S. and international laws and regulations, and subject us to litigation, investigations, sanctions and regulatory and law enforcement action, and result in reputational harm and loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We are continuously evaluating and enhancing systems and creating new systems and processes, including to maintain or upgrade our business continuity plans (including, for example, use of cloud services), as our business depends on our ability to maintain and improve our technology systems for interacting with customers, brokers and employees. We have been required to further rely on our technology systems recently because as of March 2020, all non-essential staff were transitioned to a remote work environment in response to the COVID-19 crisis. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of these systems and processes, these changes, as well as changes designed to update and enhance our protective measures to address new threats, increase the risk of a system or process failure or the creation of a gap in the associated security measures. Any such failure or gap could adversely affect our business operations and the advancement of our business or strategic initiatives. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 37 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors For a discussion regarding the effects of the COVID-19 crisis on our business, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Third parties we rely upon to provide certain business and administrative services on our behalf may not perform as anticipated, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on the use of third-party providers to deliver contracted services in a broad range of areas. For example, we have engaged with Accenture plc for the delivery of services related to the administration or servicing of certain policies and contracts and investment assets, investment accounting and operational functions, finance and actuarial services, human resources and information technology services related to infrastructure, application development and maintenance. Some of these providers are located outside the U.S., which exposes us to business disruptions and political risks inherent when conducting business outside of the U.S. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us, such third parties or regulators. If such third-party providers experience disruptions, fail to meet applicable licensure requirements, do not perform as anticipated or in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, or such third-party provider in turn relies on services from another third-party provider, who experiences such disruptions, licensure failures, nonperformance or noncompliance, we may experience operational difficulties, an inability to meet obligations (including, but not limited to, legal, regulatory or policyholder obligations), a loss of business, increased costs or reputational harm, compromises to our data integrity, or suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Third parties performing regulated activities on our behalf, such as sales and servicing of insurance products, pose a heightened risk as we may be held accountable for third party conduct that is not in compliance with applicable law. For a discussion regarding cyber risk arising from third-party providers, see “We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our critical technology systems and data and safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations” above. For a discussion regarding increased risks arising from our reliance on third parties as a result of the COVID-19 crisis, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Business or asset acquisitions and dispositions may expose us to certain risks. The completion of any business or asset acquisition or disposition is subject to certain risks, including those relating to the receipt of required regulatory approvals, the terms and conditions of regulatory approvals including any financial accommodations required by regulators, our ability to satisfy such terms, conditions and accommodations, the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of a transaction and the risk that parties may not be willing or able to satisfy the conditions to a transaction. As a result, there can be no assurance that any business or asset acquisition or disposition will be completed as contemplated, or at all, or regarding the expected timing of the completion of the acquisition or disposition. For example, on October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. No decisions have yet been made regarding the structure of the initial disposition of up to a 19.9% interest in the Life and Retirement business. In addition, any separation transaction will be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including approval by the AIG Board of Directors, receipt of insurance and other required regulatory approvals, and satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the SEC. No assurance can be given regarding the form that a separation transaction may take or the specific terms or timing thereof, or that a separation will in fact occur. There can be no guarantee that we will receive the required approvals or that closing conditions will be satisfied in order to consummate the separation of the Life and Retirement business and for any other disposition. Once we complete acquisitions or dispositions, there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated economic, strategic or other benefits of any transaction. For example, the integration of businesses we acquire may not be as successful as we anticipate or there may be undisclosed risks present in such businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including operational, strategic, financial, accounting, legal, compliance and tax risks. Difficulties integrating an acquired business may result in the acquired business performing differently than we expected (including through the loss of customers) or in our failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. Risks resulting from future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with a business or asset disposition, we may also hold a concentrated position in securities of the acquirer as part of the consideration, which subjects us to risks related to the price of equity securities and our ability to monetize such securities. In addition, with respect to certain dispositions, we are subject to regulatory and other restrictions on our use of proceeds. For example, following the closing of the sale of our controlling interest in Fortitude Holdings in June 2020, we contributed approximately $835 million of the proceeds of the sale of 38 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Fortitude Holdings to certain of our insurance company subsidiaries. In addition, we have provided and may provide financial guarantees and indemnities in connection with the businesses we have sold or may sell, as described in greater detail in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While we do not currently believe that claims under these indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant indemnity claims could be made against us. If such a claim or claims were successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. For additional information regarding the risks associated with AIG’s separation of its Life and Retirement business, see “No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will occur or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, the separation could exacerbate other risks to which AIG is exposed.” above. For additional information on these financial guarantees and indemnities see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Significant legal proceedings may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In the normal course of business, we face significant risk from regulatory and governmental investigations and civil actions, litigation and other forms of dispute resolution in various domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In our insurance and reinsurance operations, we frequently engage in litigation and arbitration concerning the scope of coverage under insurance and reinsurance contracts, and face litigation and arbitration in which our subsidiaries defend or indemnify their insureds under insurance and reinsurance contracts. Additionally, from time to time, various regulatory and governmental agencies review the transactions and practices of AIG and our subsidiaries in connection with industry-wide and other inquiries into, among other matters, the business practices of current and former operating insurance subsidiaries. Such investigations, inquiries or examinations have and could develop into administrative, civil or criminal proceedings or enforcement actions, in which remedies could include fines, penalties, restitution or alterations in our business practices, and could result in additional expenses, limitations on certain business activities and reputational damage. AIG, our subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors are also subject to a variety of additional types of legal disputes brought by holders of AIG securities, customers, employees and others, alleging, among other things, breach of contractual or fiduciary duties, bad faith, indemnification and violations of federal and state statutes and regulations. Certain of these matters involve potentially significant risk of loss due to the possibility of significant jury awards and settlements, punitive damages or other penalties. Many of these matters are also highly complex and seek recovery on behalf of a class or similarly large number of plaintiffs. It is therefore inherently difficult to predict the size or scope of potential future losses arising from them, and developments in these matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations. For a discussion of certain legal proceedings, including certain tax controversies, see Notes 16 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion regarding potential litigation exposure as a result of the COVID-19 crisis, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses or result in losses. We have developed and continue to develop enterprise-wide risk management policies and procedures to mitigate risk and loss to which we are exposed, which include hedging programs designed to manage market risk and reinsurance to manage geographic accumulations. There are, however, inherent limitations to risk management strategies because there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not sufficiently or accurately anticipated or identified. For example, our hedging programs utilize various derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts, interest rate swaps and swaptions, as well as other hedging instruments, which may not effectively or completely reduce our risk; and assumptions underlying models used to measure accumulations and support reinsurance purchases may be proven inaccurate and could leave us exposed to larger than expected catastrophe losses in a given year. In addition, our current business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to reduce the impact of pandemics and other natural or man-made catastrophic events that are beyond our anticipated thresholds or impact tolerances. If our risk management policies and procedures are ineffective, we may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. As a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. In times of market stress, unanticipated financial market movements or unanticipated claims experience resulting from adverse mortality, morbidity or policyholder behavior, the effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our employees will follow our risk management policies and procedures. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 39 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors REGULATION Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability. Our operations generally, and our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries in particular, are subject to extensive and potentially conflicting laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our business and financial condition are also subject to supervision and regulation by authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Federal, state and foreign regulators also periodically review and investigate our insurance and reinsurance businesses, including AIG-specific and industry-wide practices. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is the protection of our insurance and reinsurance contract holders, and not our investors. The extent of domestic regulation on our insurance and reinsurance business varies, but generally is governed by state statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to state insurance departments. In addition, federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to certain of our insurance products that are considered ‘securities’ under such laws, including our variable annuity contracts, variable life insurance policies and the separate accounts that issue them, as well as our broker-dealer, investment advisor and mutual funds operations. The laws and regulations that apply to our business and operations generally grant regulatory agencies and/or self-regulatory organizations broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to regulate the issuance, sale and distribution of our products, the standard of care applicable to our producers and agents who sell our products and the manner in which certain conflicts of interest arising from or related to such sale are to be addressed, the delivery of our services, the nature or extent of disclosures required to be given to our customers, the compensation of our distribution partners, the manner in which we handle claims on our policies and the administration of our policies and contracts, as well as the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with applicable securities laws and regulations. We strive to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our businesses, operations and legal entities. The application of and compliance with such laws and regulations may be subject to interpretation, evolving industry practices and regulatory expectations that could result in increased compliance costs. The relevant authorities may not agree with our interpretation of these laws and regulations, including, for example, our implementation of requirements related to new or changes in capital, accounting treatment or reserving such as those governing principle-based reserving (PBR), or with our policies and procedures adopted to address evolving industry practices or meet regulatory expectations. Such authorities’ interpretation and views may also change from time to time. If we are found not to have complied with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities, impose substantial fines or require corrective actions to be taken, which individually or in the aggregate could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Additionally, if such authorities’ interpretation of requirements related to new or changes in capital, accounting treatment and/or valuation manual or reserving (such as PBR) materially differs from ours, we may incur higher operating costs or sales of products subject to such requirement or treatment may be affected. We also strive to maintain all required licenses and approvals. Regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals. If we do not have the required licenses and approvals, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or impose substantial fines. Further, insurance regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to issue orders of supervision, which permit them to apply enhanced supervision to the business and operations of an insurance or reinsurance company. In the U.S., the RBC formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. Regulators in other jurisdictions in which we do business have adopted capital and liquidity standards applicable to insurers and reinsurers operating in their jurisdiction. Failure to comply with such RBC capital, liquidity and similar requirements would generally permit the insurance regulator to take certain regulatory actions that could materially impact the affected company’s operations. Those actions range from requiring an insurer to submit a plan describing how it would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The NAIC and the IAIS are also developing and testing methodologies for assessing group-wide regulatory capital, which might evolve into more formal group-wide capital requirements on certain insurance companies and/or their holding companies that may augment state-law RBC standards, and similar international standards, that apply at the legal entity level, and such capital calculations may be made, in whole or in part, on bases other than the statutory statements of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. We cannot predict the effect these initiatives may have on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. See “Actions by foreign governments, regulators and international standard setters could result in substantial additional regulation to which we may be subject” below for additional information on increased capital and other requirements that may be imposed on us . The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local licenses may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Accordingly, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single 40 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors country could adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country. For further discussion of our regulatory environment see Item 1. Business – Regulation. For a discussion regarding the regulatory response to the COVID-19 crisis, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Actions by foreign governments, regulators and international standard setters could result in substantial additional regulation to which we may be subject. We cannot predict the impact laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions may have on the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is possible such laws and regulations, our satisfaction of the IAIG criteria and certain standard-setting initiatives by the FSB and the IAIS, including, but not limited to, the IAIS’ Common Framework for the Supervision of IAIGs, a holistic framework for the assessment and mitigation of systemic risk and the development and refinement of a risk-based global ICS, Solvency II and European Data Protection Board Cross Border Data Transfer in the European Union, may significantly alter our business practices. For example, regulators have imposed and may continue to impose new requirements or issue new guidance aimed at addressing or mitigating climate change-related risks. They may also limit our ability to engage in capital or liability management, require us to raise additional capital, and impose burdensome requirements and additional costs. It is also possible that the laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions will differ from one another, and that they could be inconsistent with the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S. For a discussion of the effects of regulations related to climate change on our business, see “Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition” above. For further details on these international regulations and their potential impact on AIG and its businesses, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – International Regulation. Attempts to efficiently manage the impact of Regulation XXX, Actuarial Guideline AXXX and Principle-Based Reserving may not be successful in whole or in part resulting in an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Regulation XXX requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees. In addition, NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. In December 2012, the NAIC approved a new Valuation Manual (VM) containing a principle-based approach to life insurance company reserves, which became effective on January 1, 2017, and replaced Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX for new life insurance business issued after January 1, 2017. As permitted by applicable regulations, we deferred implementing PBR until January 1, 2020, and have applied it as of such date for relevant life insurance business issued on or after January 1, 2020. For additional information regarding principle-based reserving, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Insurance Regulation . Our domestic Life and Retirement companies manage the capital impact of statutory reserve requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX through reinsurance transactions. We have also begun and may continue to pursue reinsurance transactions to manage the capital impact of statutory reserve requirements under PBR. The application of Regulation XXX, Guideline AXXX and PBR involve numerous interpretations. If state insurance departments do not agree with our interpretations or if regulations change with respect to our ability to manage the capital impact of certain statutory reserve requirements, our statutory reserve requirements could increase, or our ability to take reserve credit for reinsurance transactions could be reduced or eliminated. As a result, we could be required to raise capital to replace the reserve credit provided by the reinsurance transactions or incur higher costs to obtain reinsurance, each of which could adversely affect our sales of these products and our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information on statutory reserving requirements under Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX and our use of reinsurance see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. New laws and regulations may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively. Legislators, regulators and self-regulatory organizations have in the past, and may in the future, periodically consider various proposals that may affect or restrict, among other things, our business practices, product designs and distribution relationships, how we market, sell or service certain products we offer, our capital, reserving and accounting requirements, or the profitability of certain of our businesses. New laws and regulations may even affect or significantly limit our ability to conduct certain businesses at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. These proposals could also impose additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria). It is uncertain whether and how these and other such proposals would AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 41 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors apply to us, those who sell or service our products, or our competitors or how they could impact our ability to compete effectively, as well as our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For a discussion regarding the regulatory response to the COVID-19 crisis, see “COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto” above. Certain provisions of Dodd-Frank remain relevant to insurance groups generally, including AIG. The Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) rescinded our designation as a nonbank SIFI on September 29, 2017, but the Council remains authorized under Dodd-Frank to determine, subject to certain statutory and regulatory standards and to the Council’s guidance, which was most recently changed to favor an activities-based approach to systemic risk identification and mitigation, that certain nonbank financial companies be designated as nonbank SIFIs subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and enhanced prudential standards. The Council may also recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that we and other insurers or other nonbank financial services companies, including insurers, engage in. Additionally, Dodd-Frank directs existing and newly created government agencies and bodies to promulgate regulations implementing the law, which is an ongoing process. There remains considerable uncertainty as to the potential adoption and timing of additional regulatory changes related to Dodd-Frank. We cannot predict the requirements of any additional regulations that may be ultimately adopted or the impact they may have on our businesses, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. See Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Dodd-Frank for further discussion of provisions of Dodd-Frank that remain relevant to insurance groups generally. An “ownership change” could limit our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income. As of December 31, 2020, on a U.S. GAAP basis, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $31.6 billion and $1.4 billion in foreign tax credits. Our ability to use these tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change will occur when the percentage of AIG Parent's ownership (measured by value) by one or more “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code) has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change generally will be subject to an annual limitation on its utilization of pre-ownership change tax loss and credit carryforwards equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (AFR) (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code would be dependent on the value of our equity and the AFR at the time of any ownership change. If we were to experience an “ownership change”, it is possible that a significant portion of our tax loss and credit carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income. On March 9, 2011, our Board adopted our Tax Asset Protection Plan (the Plan) to help protect these tax loss and credit carryforwards, and on December 14, 2016, our Board adopted an amendment to the Plan, extending its expiration date to December 14, 2019. Our shareholders ratified the amendment of the Plan at our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Thereafter, on December 11, 2019, our Board adopted a further amendment to the Plan, extending its expiration date to December 11, 2022. Our shareholders ratified the amendment of the Plan at our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. At our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, our shareholders adopted a protective amendment to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Protective Amendment), which is designed to prevent certain transfers of AIG Common Stock that could result in an “ownership change”. At our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, our shareholders approved the amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to adopt a successor to the Protective Amendment that contains substantially the same terms as the Protective Amendment. At our 2020 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, our shareholders adopted an amendment and restatement to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to adopt a successor to the Protective Amendment that contains substantially the same terms as the Protective Amendment but would expire on May 13, 2023. The Plan is designed to reduce the likelihood of an “ownership change” by (i) discouraging any person or group from becoming a 4.99 percent shareholder and (ii) discouraging any existing 4.99 percent shareholder from acquiring additional shares of AIG Common Stock. The Protective Amendment generally restricts any transfer of AIG Common Stock that would (i) increase the ownership by any person to 4.99 percent or more of AIG Common Stock then outstanding or (ii) increase the percentage of AIG Common Stock owned by a Five Percent Stockholder (as defined in the Plan). Despite the intentions of the Plan and the Protective Amendment to deter and prevent an “ownership change”, such an event may still occur. In addition, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may make it more difficult and more expensive to acquire us, and may discourage open market purchases of AIG Common Stock or a non-negotiated 42 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors tender or exchange offer for AIG Common Stock. Accordingly, the Plan and the Protective Amendment may limit a shareholder’s ability to realize a premium over the market price of AIG Common Stock in connection with any stock transaction. Changes to tax laws, including U.S. legislation enacted in late 2017, could increase our corporate taxes or make some of our products less attractive to consumers. The 2017 Tax Act, known informally as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, reduced the statutory rate of U.S. federal corporate income tax to 21 percent and enacted numerous other changes impacting AIG and the insurance industry. The reduction in the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate has positively impacted AIG’s future U.S. after-tax earnings. Other changes in the Tax Act that broaden the tax base by reducing or eliminating deductions for certain items (e.g., reductions to separate account dividends received deductions, disallowance of entertainment expenses, and limitations on the deduction of certain executive compensation costs) will offset a portion of the benefits from the lower statutory rate. Other specific changes, including the calculation of insurance tax reserves and the amortization of deferred acquisition costs, will impact the timing of our tax expense items and could impact the pricing of certain insurance products. In addition to changing the taxation of corporations in general and insurance companies in particular, the Tax Act temporarily reduced certain tax rates for individuals and increased the exemption for the federal estate tax. These changes could reduce demand in the U.S. for life insurance and annuity contracts, which could reduce our income over time due to lower sales of these products or potential increased surrenders of in-force business. Furthermore, the overall impact of the Tax Act is subject to the effect of other complex provisions in the Tax Act (including the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) and global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI)), which reduce a portion of the benefit from the lower statutory U.S. federal rate. While the U.S. tax authorities issued formal guidance and recently issued final regulations for BEAT and other provisions of the Tax Act, there are still certain aspects of the Tax Act that remain unclear. AIG will continue to review the impact of BEAT, GILTI and related provisions as further guidance is issued. Any further guidance may result in changes to the interpretations and assumptions we made and actions we may take, which as a result may impact the amounts recorded with respect to international provisions of the Tax Act, possibly materially. In addition, new tax laws outside the U.S. similar to BEAT or enacted in response to proposals by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development could make substantive changes to the global international tax regime. Such changes could impact cross border reinsurance transactions, which could increase our tax costs globally. Finally, it is possible that tax laws will be further changed either in a technical corrections bill or entirely new legislation. It remains difficult to predict whether or when there will be any tax law changes or further guidance by the authorities in the U.S. or elsewhere in the world having a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as the impact of broad proposals on our business can vary substantially depending upon the specific changes or further guidance made and how the changes or guidance are implemented by the authorities. For additional information see Item 7. MD&A – Consolidated Results of Operations – U.S. Tax Law Changes. The USA PATRIOT Act, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control regulations and similar laws and regulations that apply to us may expose us to significant penalties. As a company that operates in approximately 80 countries and jurisdictions, AIG is subject to myriad regulations which govern items such as sanctions, bribery and anti-money laundering, for which failure to comply exposes us to significant penalties. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 requires companies to know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes it unlawful for certain classes of persons and entities to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business. Also, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control administers regulations requiring U.S. persons to refrain from doing business, or allowing their clients to do business through them, with certain organizations or individuals on a prohibited list maintained by the U.S. government or with certain countries. The UK, the EU and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. The laws and regulations of other jurisdictions may sometimes conflict with those of the U.S. Although we have instituted compliance programs to address these requirements, as well as potential conflicts of law, there are inherent risks in global transactions. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Estimates used in the preparation of financial statements and modeled results used in various areas of our business may differ materially from actual experience. Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP), which requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. The accounting policies that we consider most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore may be viewed as critical accounting estimates, are described in Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. These estimates are based on AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 43 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors judgment, current facts and circumstances, and, when applicable, internally developed models. Therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. In addition, we employ models to price products, calculate reserves and value assets, as well as evaluate risk and determine capital requirements, among other uses. These models rely on estimates and projections that are inherently uncertain, may use incomplete, outdated or incorrect data or assumptions and may not operate properly. To the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism and cyber events is especially difficult and less reliable given such models are in the early stages of development and therefore, not widely adopted or available. In addition, actions taken by governments and monetary authorities in response to the COVID-19 crisis have affected and may affect our models used to estimate volatility, among other items, which could adversely affect our business. As our businesses continue to expand and evolve, the number and complexity of models we employ has grown, increasing our inherent exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated input data, controls and assumptions, and the controls we have in place to mitigate their risk may not be effective in all cases. Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our financial statements are subject to the application of U.S. GAAP, which is periodically revised. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The FASB has revised the accounting standards for insurance contracts. The FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2018-12 – Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, which has an effective date of January 1, 2023 and will significantly change the accounting measurements and disclosures for long-duration insurance contracts, which primarily relates to our life and annuity products as well as certain accident and health products, among others. Changes to the manner in which we account for long-duration products could impact our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. The FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 – Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which took effect on January 1, 2020. This standard changes how we account for credit losses for most financial assets, premiums receivable and reinsurance receivables. The standard replaces the incurred loss impairment model with a “current expected credit loss model” that generally results in earlier recognition of credit losses. The standard applies to financial assets subject to credit losses, including loans measured at amortized cost, reinsurance receivables and certain off-balance sheet credit exposures. Additionally, the impairment of available-for-sale debt securities, including purchased credit deteriorated securities, are subject to the new guidance and are measured in a similar manner, except that losses are recognized as allowances rather than reductions in the amortized cost of the securities. The standard impacts our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition and requires additional information to be disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The adoption of the newly issued standards as well as other future accounting standards could impact our reported consolidated results of operations, liquidity and reported financial condition. For a discussion of the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but are not yet required to be implemented see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If our businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or to establish an additional valuation allowance against the deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment and conduct interim qualitative assessments on a periodic basis. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. In 2020, for substantially all of the reporting units we elected to bypass the qualitative assessment of whether goodwill impairment may exist and, therefore, performed quantitative assessments that supported a conclusion that the fair value of all of the reporting units tested exceeded their book value. The fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business and could be adversely impacted if new business, customer retention, profitability or other drivers of performance differ from expectations, or upon the occurrence of certain events, including a significant and adverse change in regulations, legal factors, accounting standards or business climate, or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our goodwill balance was $4.1 billion at December 31, 2020. If it is determined that goodwill has been impaired, we must write down goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). These write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For further discussion regarding goodwill impairment, see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Allowance for Credit Losses and Goodwill Impairment – Goodwill Impairment and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. As of December 31, 2020, we had net deferred tax assets, after valuation allowance, of $12.4 billion, related to federal, foreign, and state and local jurisdictions. The performance of 44 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 1A | Risk Factors the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income from a variety of sources and planning strategies, is factored into management’s determination. If, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income, which such action we have taken from time to time. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For further discussion regarding deferred tax assets, see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Income Taxes and Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate and expected rate of return for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. We determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on assumed discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and trends in health care costs. Changes in these assumptions, including from the impact of a sustained low or negative interest rate environment or rapidly rising interest rates, may result in increased expenses which could impact our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition . For further details on our pension and postretirement benefit plans see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. COMPETITION and employees We face intense competition in each of our businesses. Our businesses operate in highly competitive environments, both domestically and overseas. Our principal competitors are other large multinational insurance organizations, as well as banks, investment banks and other nonbank financial institutions. The insurance industry in particular is highly competitive. Within the U.S., our General Insurance companies compete with other stock companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual insurance companies and other underwriting organizations. Our Life and Retirement companies compete in the U.S. with life insurance companies and other participants in related financial services fields. Overseas, our subsidiaries compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies. Technological advancements and innovation in the insurance industry, including those related to evolving customer preferences, the digitization of insurance products and services, acceleration of automated underwriting, and electronic processes present competitive risks. Technological advancements and innovation are occurring in distribution, underwriting, claims and operations at a rapid pace, and that pace may increase, particularly as companies increasingly use data analytics and technology as part of their business strategy. While we seek opportunities to leverage technological advancements and innovation for our customers’ benefit, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if external technological advancements or innovation, or the regulation of technological advancements or innovation, limit our ability to retain existing business, write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, render our insurance products less suitable or impact our ability to adapt or deploy current products as quickly and effectively as our competitors. Reductions of our credit ratings or IFS ratings or negative publicity may make it more difficult to compete to retain existing customers and to maintain our historical levels of business with existing customers, counterparties and distribution relationships. General Insurance companies and Life and Retirement companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, and terms and conditions. Retirement services companies compete through crediting rates and the issuance of guaranteed benefits. A decline in our position as to any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability. Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and managing key employee succession is critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain the key employees and highly skilled people we need to support our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key employees and highly skilled people. Due to the intense competition in our industry for key employees with demonstrated ability, we may be unable to hire or retain such employees. For example, there is heightened competition for actuarial talent in the U.S. In addition, we may experience higher than expected employee turnover and difficulty attracting new employees as a result of uncertainty from strategic actions and organizational and operational changes, including the proposed separation of the Life and Retirement business from AIG. Losing any of our key people also could have a material adverse effect on our operations given their skills, knowledge of our business, years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement employees. Our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining key employees. In addition, we would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our senior management and other key employees. While we have succession plans and long-term compensation plans designed to retain our employees, our succession plans may not operate effectively and our compensation plans cannot guarantee that the services of these employees will continue to be available to us. Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in significant losses. There have been a number of cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. Our human resources and compliance departments work collaboratively to monitor for fraud AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 45 ITEM 1A | Risk Factors and conduct extensive training for employees, however, employee misconduct may still occur. Instances of fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, misuse of customer or proprietary information, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements or our internal policies may result in losses and/or reputational damage. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the controls that we have in place to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect our intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We have, and may in the future, litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property and to determine its scope, validity or enforceability, which could divert significant resources and may not prove successful. Litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights may not be successful and cost a significant amount of money. The inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. We also may be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges our operations or activities infringe upon their intellectual property rights, including patent rights, or violate license usage rights. Any such intellectual property claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages, and in some circumstances we could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers, or utilizing and benefiting from certain patent, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses, or alternatively could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available documents may include, and officers and representatives of AIG may from time to time make and discuss, projections, goals, assumptions and statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These projections, goals, assumptions and statements are not historical facts but instead represent only a belief regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside AIG’s control. These projections, goals, assumptions and statements include statements preceded by, followed by or including words such as “will,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “focused on achieving,” “view,” “target,” “goal” or “estimate.” These projections, goals, assumptions and statements may relate to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, anticipated organizational, business or regulatory changes, the effect of catastrophes, such as the COVID-19 crisis, and macroeconomic events, anticipated dispositions, monetization and/or acquisitions of businesses or assets, or successful integration of acquired businesses, management succession and retention plans, exposure to risk, trends in operations and financial results. It is possible that AIG’s actual results and financial condition will differ, possibly materially, from the results and financial condition indicated in these projections, goals, assumptions and statements. Factors that could cause AIG’s actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in the specific projections, goals, assumptions and statements include: We are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any obligation) to update or alter any projections, goals, assumptions or other statements, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 49 ITEM 7 | Index to Item 7 Throughout the MD&A, we use certain terms and abbreviations, which are summarized in the Glossary and Acronyms. We have incorporated into this discussion a number of cross-references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report to assist readers seeking additional information related to a particular subject. 50 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Measures Use of Non-GAAP Measures Throughout this MD&A, we present our financial condition and results of operations in the way we believe will be most meaningful and representative of our business results. Some of the measurements we use are “non-GAAP financial measures” under SEC rules and regulations. GAAP is the acronym for “generally accepted accounting principles” in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures we present may not be comparable to similarly-named measures reported by other companies. Book value per common share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets and deferred tax assets (DTA) (Adjusted book value per common share) is used to show the amount of our net worth on a per-common share basis after eliminating items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period including changes in fair value of AIG’s available for sale securities portfolio, foreign currency translation adjustments and U.S. tax attribute deferred tax assets. This measure also eliminates the asymmetrical impact resulting from changes in fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio wherein there is largely no offsetting impact for certain related insurance liabilities. In addition, we adjust for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets since these fair value movements are economically transferred to Fortitude Re. We exclude deferred tax assets representing U.S. tax attributes related to net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits as they have not yet been utilized. Amounts for interim periods are estimates based on projections of full-year attribute utilization. As net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits are utilized, the portion of the DTA utilized is included in these book value per common share metrics. Adjusted book value per common share is derived by dividing total AIG common shareholders’ equity, excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets, and DTA (Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity), by total common shares outstanding. The reconciliation to book value per common share, the most comparable GAAP measure, is presented in the Executive Summary section of this MD&A. Return on common equity – Adjusted after-tax income excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets and DTA (Adjusted return on common equity) is used to show the rate of return on common shareholders’ equity. We believe this measure is useful to investors because it eliminates items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, including changes in fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio, foreign currency translation adjustments and U.S. tax attribute deferred tax assets. This measure also eliminates the asymmetrical impact resulting from changes in fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio wherein there is largely no offsetting impact for certain related insurance liabilities. In addition, we adjust for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets since these fair value movements are economically transferred to Fortitude Re. We exclude deferred tax assets representing U.S. tax attributes related to net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits as they have not yet been utilized. Amounts for interim periods are estimates based on projections of full-year attribute utilization. As net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits are utilized, the portion of the DTA utilized is included in Adjusted return on common equity. Adjusted return on common equity is derived by dividing actual or annualized adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders by average Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity. The reconciliation to return on common equity, the most comparable GAAP measure, is presented in the Executive Summary section of this MD&A. Adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders is derived by excluding the tax effected adjusted pre-tax income (APTI) adjustments described below, dividends on preferred stock, and the following tax items from net income attributable to AIG:  deferred income tax valuation allowance releases and charges;  changes in uncertain tax positions and other tax items related to legacy matters having no relevance to our current businesses or operating performance; and  net tax charge related to the enactment of the Tax Act; and by excluding the net realized capital gains (losses) and other charges from noncontrolling interests. We use the following operating performance measures because we believe they enhance the understanding of the underlying profitability of continuing operations and trends of our business segments. We believe they also allow for more meaningful comparisons with our insurance competitors. When we use these measures, reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure are provided on a consolidated basis in the Consolidated Results of Operations section of this MD&A. Adjusted revenues exclude Net realized capital gains (losses), income from non-operating litigation settlements (included in Other income for GAAP purposes) and changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits (included in Net investment income for GAAP purposes). Adjusted revenues is a GAAP measure for our segments. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 51 ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Measures Adjusted pre-tax income is derived by excluding the items set forth below from income from continuing operations before income tax. This definition is consistent across our segments. These items generally fall into one or more of the following broad categories: legacy matters having no relevance to our current businesses or operating performance; adjustments to enhance transparency to the underlying economics of transactions; and measures that we believe to be common to the industry. APTI is a GAAP measure for our segments. For the period ended December 31, 2018, we have excluded changes in the fair value of equity securities from adjusted pre-tax income to be consistent with our elected prospective treatment beginning in the first quarter of 2019 due to a change in accounting principle. Excluded items include the following:  General Insurance – Ratios: We, along with most property and casualty insurance companies, use the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. These ratios are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the amount of losses and loss adjustment expenses (which for General Insurance excludes net loss reserve discount), and the amount of other underwriting expenses that would be incurred. A combined ratio of less than 100 indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio of over 100 indicates an underwriting loss. Our ratios are calculated using the relevant segment information calculated under GAAP, and thus may not be comparable to similar ratios calculated for regulatory reporting purposes. The underwriting environment varies across countries and products, as does the degree of litigation activity, all of which affect such ratios. In addition, investment returns, local taxes, cost of capital, regulation, product type and competition can have an effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting income and associated ratios. – Accident year loss and combined ratios, as adjusted: both the accident year loss and combined ratios, as adjusted, exclude catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting. Natural catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG in excess of $10 million each and man-made catastrophe losses, such as terrorism and civil disorders that exceed the $10 million threshold. We believe that as adjusted ratios are meaningful measures of our underwriting results on an ongoing basis as they exclude catastrophes and the impact of reserve discounting which are outside of management’s control. We also exclude prior year development to provide transparency related to current accident year results.  Life and Retirement – Premiums and deposits: includes direct and assumed amounts received and earned on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and life-contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal life, investment-type annuity contracts, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) funding agreements and mutual funds. Results from discontinued operations are excluded from all of these measures. 52 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected. Insurance Liabilities Loss Reserves The estimate of the loss reserves relies on several key judgments:  the determination of the actuarial models used as the basis for these estimates;  the relative weights given to these models by product line;  the underlying assumptions used in these models; and  the determination of the appropriate groupings of similar product lines and, in some cases, the disaggregation of dissimilar losses within a product line. We use numerous assumptions in determining the best estimate of reserves for each line of business. The importance of any specific assumption can vary by both line of business and accident year. Because actual experience can differ from key assumptions used in establishing reserves, there is potential for significant variation in the development of loss reserves. This is particularly true for long-tail classes of business. All of our methods to calculate net reserves include assumptions about estimated reinsurance recoveries and their collectability. Reinsurance collectability is evaluated independently of the reserving process and appropriate allowances for uncollectible reinsurance are established. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 53 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Overview of Loss Reserving Process and Methods Our loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups. Short-tail reserves consists principally of U.S. Property and Special Risks, Europe Property and Special Risks, U.S. Personal Insurance, and Europe and Japan Personal Insurance. Long-tail reserves include U.S. Workers’ Compensation, U.S. Excess Casualty, U.S. Other Casualty, U.S. Financial Lines, Europe Casualty and Financial Lines, and U.S. Run-Off Long Tail Insurance Lines. Short-Tail Reserves For our short-tail coverages, such as property, where the nature of claims is generally high frequency with short reporting periods, with volatility arising from occasional severe events, the process for recording non-catastrophe quarterly loss reserves is geared toward maintaining IBNR based on percentages of net earned premiums for that business, rather than projecting ultimate loss ratios based on reported losses. For example, the IBNR reserve required for the latest accident quarter for a product line such as homeowners might be approximately 20 percent of the quarter’s earned premiums. This level of reserve would generally be recorded regardless of the actual losses reported in the current quarter, thus recognizing severe events as they occur. The percent of premium factor reflects both our expectation of the ultimate loss costs associated with the line of business and the expectation of the percentage of ultimate loss costs that have not yet been reported. The expected ultimate loss costs generally reflect the average loss costs from a period of preceding accident quarters that have been adjusted for changes in rate and loss cost levels, mix of business, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular line of business. The expected percentage of ultimate loss costs that have not yet been reported would be derived from historical loss emergence patterns. For more mature quarters, specific loss development methods would be used to determine the IBNR. For other product lines where the nature of claims is high frequency but low severity, methods including loss development, frequency/severity or a multiple of average monthly losses may be used to determine IBNR reserves. IBNR for claims arising from catastrophic events or events of unusual severity would be determined in close collaboration with the claims department’s knowledge of known information, using alternative techniques or expected percentages of ultimate loss cost emergence based on historical loss emergence of similar claim types. Long-Tail Reserves Estimation of ultimate net losses and loss adjustment expenses (net losses) for our long-tail Casualty lines of business is a complex process and depends on a number of factors, including the product line and volume of business, as well as estimates of reinsurance recoveries. Experience in the more recent accident years generally provides limited statistical credibility of reported net losses on long-tail Casualty lines of business. That is because in the more recent accident years, a relatively low proportion of estimated ultimate net incurred losses are reported or paid. Therefore, IBNR reserves constitute a relatively high proportion of net losses. 54 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates We record quarterly changes in loss reserves for each product line of business. The overall change in our loss reserves is based on the sum of the changes for all product lines of business. For most long-tail product lines of business, the quarterly loss reserve changes are based on the estimated current loss ratio for each subset of coverage less any amounts paid. Also, any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident years deemed to be necessary based on the results of our latest detailed valuation reviews, large loss analyses, or other analytical techniques, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve and incurred losses for the current quarter. Differences between actual loss emergence in a given period and our expectations based on prior loss reserve estimates are used to monitor reserve adequacy between detailed valuation reviews and may also influence our judgment with respect to adjusting reserve estimates. Details of the Loss Reserving Process The process of determining the current loss ratio for each product line of business is based on a variety of factors. These include considerations such as: prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; and changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business. Other considerations include actual and anticipated changes in external factors such as trends in loss costs, inflation, employment rates or unemployment duration or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each product line of business is intended to represent our best estimate after reflecting all of the relevant factors. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions and data underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine whether the loss ratios remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual loss experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in reinsurance, quantifiable changes in coverage or mix of business, and changes in other factors that may affect the loss ratio. When this review suggests that the previously determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate, the loss ratio is changed to reflect the revised estimates. We conduct a comprehensive loss detailed valuation review at least annually for each product line of business in accordance with Actuarial Standards of Practice. These standards provide that the unpaid loss estimate may be presented in a variety of ways, such as a point estimate, a range of estimates, a point estimate based on the expected value of several reasonable estimates, or a probability distribution of the unpaid loss amount. Our actuarial best estimate for each product line of business represents an expected value generally considering a range of reasonably possible outcomes. The reserve analysis for each product line of business is performed by a credentialed actuarial team in collaboration with claims, underwriting, business unit management, risk management and senior management. Our actuaries consider the ongoing applicability of prior data groupings and update numerous assumptions, including the analysis and selection of loss development and loss trend factors. They also determine and select the appropriate actuarial or other methods used to estimate reserve adequacy for each business product line, and may employ multiple methods and assumptions for each product line. These data groupings, accident year weights, method selections and assumptions necessarily change over time as business mix changes, development factors mature and become more credible and loss characteristics evolve. In the course of these detailed valuation reviews an actuarial best estimate of the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these estimates for each product line of business yields an overall actuarial best estimate for that line of business. For certain product lines, we measure sensitivities and determine explicit ranges around the actuarial best estimate using multiple methodologies and varying assumptions. Where we have ranges, we use them to inform our selection of best estimates of loss reserves by major product line of business. Our range of reasonable estimates is not intended to cover all possibilities or extreme values and is based on known data and facts at the time of estimation. We consult with third-party environmental litigation and engineering specialists, third-party toxic tort claims professionals, third-party clinical and public health specialists, third-party workers’ compensation claims adjusters and third-party actuarial advisors to help inform our judgments, as needed. A critical component of our detailed valuation reviews is an internal peer review of our reserving analyses and conclusions, where actuaries independent of the initial review evaluate the reasonableness of assumptions used, methods selected and weightings given to different methods. In addition, each detailed valuation review is subjected to a review and challenge process by specialists in our Enterprise Risk Management group. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 55 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Actuarial and Other Methods for Major Lines of Business Our actuaries determine the appropriate actuarial methods and segmentation. This determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the losses associated with the product line of business, such as the frequency or severity of the claims. In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. This determination is a judgmental, dynamic process and refinements to the groupings are made every year. The changes to groupings may be driven by and may change to reflect observed or emerging patterns within and across product lines, or to differentiate different risk characteristics (for example, size of deductibles and extent of third-party claims specialists used by our insureds). As an example of reserve segmentation, we write many unique subsets of professional liability, which cover different products, industry segments, and coverage structures. While for pricing or other purposes, it may be appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subset individually, we believe it is appropriate to combine the subsets into larger groups for reserving purposes to produce a greater degree of credibility in the loss experience. This determination of data segmentation and related actuarial methods is assessed, reviewed and updated at least annually. The actuarial methods we use most commonly include paid and incurred loss development methods, expected loss ratio methods, including “Bornhuetter Ferguson” and “Cape Cod”, and frequency/severity models. Loss development methods utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years updated through the current year to project the reported losses to an ultimate basis for all accident years. We also use this information to update our current accident year loss selections. Loss development methods are generally most appropriate for classes of business that exhibit a stable pattern of loss development from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the product line have similar development characteristics. For example, property exposures would generally not be combined into the same product line as casualty exposures, and primary casualty exposures would generally not be combined into the same product line as excess casualty exposures. We continually refine our loss reserving techniques and adopt further segmentations based on our analysis of differing emerging loss patterns for certain product lines. We generally use expected loss ratio methods in cases where the reported loss data lacked sufficient credibility to utilize loss development methods, such as for new product lines of business or for long-tail product lines at early stages of loss development. Frequency/severity models may be used where sufficient frequency counts are available to apply such approaches. Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the product line of business to determine the liability for loss reserves and loss adjustment expenses. For example, an expected loss ratio of 70 percent applied to an earned premium base of $10 million for a product line of business would generate an ultimate loss estimate of $7 million. Subtracting any paid losses and loss adjustment expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve for this product line. Under the Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, the expected loss ratio is applied only to the expected unreported portion of the losses. For example, for a long-tail product line of business for which only 10 percent of the losses are expected to be reported at the end of the accident year, the expected loss ratio would be used to represent the 90 percent of losses still unreported. The actual reported losses at the end of the accident year would be added to determine the total ultimate loss estimate for the accident year. Subtracting the reported paid losses and loss adjustment expenses would result in the indicated loss reserve. In the example above, the expected loss ratio of 70 percent would be multiplied by 90 percent. The result of 63 percent would be applied to the earned premium of $10 million resulting in an estimated unreported loss of $6.3 million. Actual reported losses would be added to arrive at the total ultimate losses. If the reported losses were $1 million, the ultimate loss estimate under the Bornhuetter Ferguson method would be $7.3 million versus the $7 million amount under the expected loss ratio method described above. Thus, the Bornhuetter Ferguson method gives partial credibility to the actual loss experience to date for the product line of business. Loss development methods generally give full credibility to the reported loss experience to date. In the example above, loss development methods would typically indicate an ultimate loss estimate of $10 million, as the reported losses of $1 million would be estimated to reflect only 10 percent of the ultimate losses. 56 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates A key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond more quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the product line of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue to give more weight to a prior expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged to modify the expected loss ratio to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development methods have the disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if the loss experience is anomalous due to the various key factors described above and the inherent volatility in some of the classes. For example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of loss development could cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it is a fundamental shift in the development pattern. In these instances, expected loss ratio methods such as Bornhuetter Ferguson have the advantage of recognizing large losses without extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses for the accident year. The Cape Cod method is a hybrid between the loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, where the historic loss data and loss development factor assumptions are used to determine the expected loss ratio estimate in the Bornhuetter Ferguson method. Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. In certain cases, a structural approach may also be used to predict the ultimate loss cost. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However, for average severity to be predictable, the product line of business must consist of homogenous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the next are reasonably consistent and where there are limited changes to deductible levels or limits. Generally these methods work best for high frequency, low severity product lines of business such as personal auto. However, frequency and severity metrics are also used to test the reasonability of results for other product lines of business and provide indications of underlying trends in the data. In addition, ultimate claim counts can be used as an alternative exposure measure to earned premiums in the Cape Cod method. Structural driver analytics seek to explain the underlying drivers of frequency/severity. A structural driver analysis of frequency/severity is particularly useful for understanding the key drivers of uncertainty in the ultimate loss cost. For example, for the excess workers’ compensation product line of business, we have attempted to corroborate our judgment by considering the impact on severity of the future potential for deterioration of an injured worker’s medical condition, the impact of price inflation on the various categories of medical expense and cost of living adjustments on indemnity benefits, the impact of injured worker mortality and claim specific settlement and loss mitigation strategies, etc., using the following:  Claim by claim reviews, often facilitated by third-party specialists, to determine the stability and likelihood of settling an injured worker’s indemnity and medical benefits;  Analysis of the potential for future deterioration in medical condition unlikely to be picked up by a claim file review and associated with potentially costly medical procedures (i.e., increases in both utilization and intensity of medical care) over the course of the injured worker’s lifetime;  Analysis of the cost of medical price inflation for each category of medical spend (services and devices) and for cost of living adjustments in line with statutory requirements;  Portfolio specific mortality level and mortality improvement assumptions based on a mortality study conducted for our primary and excess workers’ compensation portfolios and our opinion of future longevity trends for the open reported cases;  Ground-up consideration of the reinsurance recoveries expected for the product line of business for reported claims with extrapolation for unreported claims; and  The effects of various run-off loss management strategies that have been developed by our run-off unit. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 57 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates In recent years, we have expanded our analysis of structural drivers to additional product lines of business as a means of corroborating our judgments using traditional actuarial techniques. For example, we have explicitly used external estimates of future medical inflation and mortality in estimating the loss development tail for excess of deductible primary workers’ compensation business. Using external forecasts for items such as these can improve the accuracy and stability of our estimates. The estimation of liability for loss reserves and loss adjustment expenses relating to asbestos and environmental pollution losses on insurance policies written many years ago is typically subject to greater uncertainty than other types of losses. This is due to inconsistent court decisions, as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies or have expanded theories of liability. In addition, reinsurance recoverable balances relating to asbestos and environmental loss reserves are subject to greater uncertainty due to the underlying age of the claim, underlying legal issues surrounding the nature of the coverage, and determination of proper policy period. For these reasons, these balances tend to be subject to increased levels of disputes and legal collection activity when actually billed. The insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures. We continue to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental losses emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained absolute exclusions for pollution-related damage and asbestos. The current environmental policies that we specifically price and underwrite for environmental risks on a claims-made basis have been excluded from the analysis. The majority of our exposures for asbestos and environmental losses are related to excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. The litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity amounts, with litigation expenses included within the limits of the liability we incur. Individual significant loss reserves, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a case-by-case basis. Discussion of Key Assumptions of our Actuarial Methods 58 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 59 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The following sensitivity analysis table summarizes the effect on the loss reserve position of using certain alternative loss cost trend (for accident years where we use expected loss ratio methods) or loss development factor assumptions rather than the assumptions actually used in determining our estimates in the year-end loss reserve analyses in 2020: (a) Tail factor increase of 2 percent for guaranteed cost business and 6 percent for deductible business. (b) Tail factor decrease of 1.5 percent for guaranteed cost business and 4 percent for deductible business. 60 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts Long-duration traditional products include whole life insurance, term life insurance, accident and health insurance, long-term care insurance, and certain payout annuities for which the payment period is life-contingent, which include certain of our single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements. For long-duration traditional business, a “lock-in” principle applies. The assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience, unless a loss recognition event occurs. The assumptions include mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns. These assumptions are typically consistent with pricing inputs. The assumptions also include margins for adverse deviation, principally for key assumptions such as mortality and interest rates used to discount cash flows, to reflect uncertainty given that actual experience might deviate from these assumptions. Establishing margins at contract inception requires management judgment. The extent of the margin for adverse deviation may vary depending on the uncertainty of the cash flows, which is affected by the volatility of the business and the extent of our experience with the product. Loss recognition occurs if observed changes in actual experience or estimates result in projected future losses under loss recognition testing. To determine whether loss recognition exists, we determine whether a future loss is expected based on updated current assumptions. If loss recognition exists, we recognize the loss by first reducing DAC through amortization expense, and, if DAC is depleted, record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense. Because of the long-term nature of many of our liabilities subject to the “lock-in” principle, small changes in certain assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve adequacy. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset returns have a large effect on the degree of reserve deficiency. For additional information on loss recognition see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Groupings for loss recognition testing are consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring the profitability of the business and are applied by product groupings, including traditional life, payout annuities and long-term care insurance. Once loss recognition has been recorded for a block of business, the old assumption set is replaced and the assumption set used for the loss recognition would then be subject to the lock-in principle. For the business ceded to Fortitude Re, 100 percent of the risk is transferred and no additional loss recognition will occur. Key judgments made in loss recognition testing include the following:  To determine investment returns used in loss recognition tests, we typically match liabilities with assets of comparable duration, to the extent practicable, and then project future cash flows on those assets. Assets supporting insurance liabilities are primarily comprised of a diversified portfolio of high to medium quality fixed maturity securities, and may also include, to a lesser extent, alternative investments. Our projections include a reasonable allowance for investment expenses and expected credit losses over the projection horizon. A critical assumption in the projection of expected investment income is the assumed net rate of investment return at which excess cash flows are to be reinvested. For products in which asset and liability durations are matched relatively well, this is less of a consideration since interest on excess cash flows are not a significant component of future cash flows. For the reinvestment rate assumption, anticipated future changes to the yield curves could have a large effect. Given the interest rate environment applicable at the date of our most recent loss recognition tests, we assumed a modest and gradual increase in long-term interest rates over time.  For mortality assumptions, key judgments include the extent of industry versus own experience to base future assumptions as well as the extent of expected mortality improvements in the future. The latter judgment is based on a combination of historical mortality trends and advice from industry, public health and demography specialists that were consulted by AIG’s actuaries and published industry information.  For surrender rates, a key judgment involves the correlation between expected increases/decreases in interest rates and increases/decreases in surrender rates. To support this judgment, we compare crediting rates on our products to expected rates on competing products under different interest rate scenarios.  For in-force long-term care insurance, rate increases are allowed but must be approved by state insurance regulators. Consequently, the extent of rate increases that may be assumed requires judgment. In establishing our assumption for rate increases for long-term care insurance, we consider historical experience as to the frequency and level of rate increases approved by state regulators. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 61 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Significant unrealized appreciation on investments in a low interest rate environment may cause DAC to be adjusted and additional future policy benefit liabilities to be recorded through a charge directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (“shadow loss recognition”). These charges are included, net of tax, with the change in net unrealized appreciation of investments. In applying shadow loss recognition, the Company overlays unrealized gains and other shadow adjustments onto loss recognition tests without revising the underlying test. Accordingly, there is limited additional judgment in this process. For additional information on shadow loss recognition see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity Products Variable annuity products offered by our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement product lines offer guaranteed benefit features. These guaranteed features include guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB) that are payable in the event of death or other instances, and living benefits that are payable in the event of annuitization, or, in other instances, at specified dates during the accumulation period. Living benefits primarily include guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB). For additional information on these features see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The liability for GMDB, which is recorded in Future policyholder benefits, represents the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with the excess recognized ratably through Policyholder benefits and losses incurred over the accumulation period based on total expected fee assessments. The liabilities for GMWB, which are recorded in Policyholder contract deposits, are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in realized capital gains (losses). Our exposure to the guaranteed amounts is equal to the amount by which the contract holder’s account balance is below the amount provided by the guaranteed feature. A variable annuity contract may include more than one type of guaranteed benefit feature; for example, it may have both a GMDB and a GMWB. However, a policyholder can generally only receive payout from one guaranteed feature on a contract containing a death benefit and a living benefit, i.e., the features are generally mutually exclusive (except a surviving spouse who has a rider to potentially collect both a GMDB upon their spouse’s death and a GMWB during his or her lifetime). A policyholder cannot purchase more than one living benefit on one contract. Declines in the equity markets, increased volatility and a sustained low interest rate environment increase our exposure to potential benefits under the guaranteed features, leading to an increase in the liabilities for those benefits. For sensitivity analysis which includes the sensitivity of reserves for guaranteed benefit features to changes in the assumptions for interest rates, equity market returns, volatility, and mortality see Estimated Gross Profits for Investment-Oriented Products below. For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs. 62 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The reserving methodology and assumptions used to measure the liabilities of our two largest guaranteed benefit features are presented in the following table: valuation of embedded derivatives for fixed index annuity and Life Products Fixed index annuity and life products provide growth potential based in part on the performance of a market index. Certain fixed index annuity products offer optional guaranteed benefit features similar to those offered on variable annuity products. The index crediting feature of these products results in the recognition of an embedded derivative that is required to be bifurcated from the host contract and carried at fair value. Option pricing models are used to estimate fair value, taking into account assumptions for future equity index growth rates, volatility of the equity index, future interest rates, and our ability to adjust the participation rate and the cap on equity indexed credited rates in light of market conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions. For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs. Estimated Gross Profits for Investment–Oriented Products Policy acquisition costs and policy issuance costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal of existing insurance contracts related to universal life and investment-type products (collectively, investment-oriented products) are generally deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the expected lives of the contracts, except in instances where significant negative gross profits are expected in one or more periods. Estimated gross profits include current and expected interest rates, net investment income and spreads, net realized capital gains and losses, fees, surrender rates, mortality experience and equity market returns and volatility. In estimating future gross profits, lapse assumptions require judgment and can have a material impact on DAC amortization. For fixed deferred annuity contracts, the future spread between investment income and interest credited to policyholders is a significant judgment, particularly in a low interest rate environment. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 63 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates If the assumptions used for estimated gross profits change, DAC and related reserves, including VOBA, SIA, guaranteed benefit reserves and unearned revenue reserve (URR), are recalculated using the new assumptions, and any resulting adjustment is included in income. Updating such assumptions may result in acceleration of amortization in some products and deceleration of amortization in other products. In estimating future gross profits for variable annuity products as of December 31, 2020, a long-term annual asset growth assumption of 7.0 percent (before expenses that reduce the asset base from which future fees are projected) was applied to estimate the future growth in assets and related asset-based fees. In determining the asset growth rate, the effect of short-term fluctuations in the equity markets is partially mitigated through the use of a reversion to the mean methodology, whereby short-term asset growth above or below the long-term annual rate assumption impacts the growth assumption applied to the five-year period subsequent to the current balance sheet date. The reversion to the mean methodology allows us to maintain our long-term growth assumptions, while also giving consideration to the effect of actual investment performance. When actual performance significantly deviates from the annual long-term growth assumption, as evidenced by growth assumptions for the five-year reversion to the mean period falling below a certain rate (floor) or above a certain rate (cap) for a sustained period, judgment may be applied to revise or “unlock” the growth rate assumptions to be used for both the five-year reversion to the mean period as well as the long-term annual growth assumption applied to subsequent periods. The use of a reversion to the mean assumption is common within the industry; however, the parameters used in the methodology are subject to judgment and vary within the industry. For additional discussion see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Reserves and DAC – DAC – Reversion to the Mean. The following table summarizes the sensitivity of changes in certain assumptions for DAC and SIA, embedded derivatives and other reserves related to guaranteed benefits and URR, measured as the related hypothetical impact on December 31, 2020 balances and the resulting hypothetical impact on pre-tax income, before hedging. (a) Represents the net impact of a one percent increase or decrease in long-term equity returns for GMDB reserves and net impact of a one percent increase or decrease in the S&P 500 index on the value of the GMWB embedded derivative. (b) Represents the net impact of a one percentage point increase or decrease in equity volatility. (c) Represents the net impact of one percent parallel shift in the yield curve on the value of the GMWB embedded derivative. Does not represent interest rate spread compression on investment-oriented products. 64 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The sensitivity ranges of 10 basis points, one percent and 10 percent are included for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect the changes in net investment spreads, equity return, volatility, interest rate, mortality or lapse used by AIG in its fair value analyses or estimates of future gross profits to value DAC and related reserves. Changes different from those illustrated may occur in any period. The analysis of DAC, embedded derivatives and other reserves related to guaranteed benefits, and unearned revenue reserve is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions described above. We estimate each of the above factors individually, without the effect of any correlation among the key assumptions. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results. The effects on pre-tax income in the sensitivity analysis table above do not reflect the related effects from our economic hedging program, which utilizes derivative and other financial instruments and is designed so that changes in value of those instruments move in the opposite direction of changes in the guaranteed benefit embedded derivative liabilities. For a further discussion on guaranteed benefit features of our variable annuities and the related hedging program see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs, Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Reserves and DAC – Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results, and Notes 5 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Reinsurance Recoverable The estimation of reinsurance recoverable involves a significant amount of judgment, particularly for latent exposures, such as asbestos, due to their long-tail nature. Reinsurance assets include reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses that are estimated as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, are subject to similar judgments and uncertainties as the estimation of gross loss reserves. Similarly, Other assets include reinsurance recoverable for contracts which are accounted for as deposits. We assess the collectability of reinsurance recoverable balances, at minimum on an annual basis, through either comparison with historical trends of disputes and credit events or financial analysis of the credit quality of the reinsurer. We record adjustments to reflect the results of these assessments through an allowance for credit losses and disputes on uncollectable reinsurance that reduces the carrying amount of reinsurance and other assets on the balance sheet (collectively, the reinsurance recoverable balances). This estimate requires significant judgment for which key considerations include:  paid and unpaid amounts recoverable;  whether the balance is in dispute or subject to legal collection;  the relative financial health of the reinsurer as determined by the Obligor Risk Ratings (ORRs) we assign to each reinsurer based upon our financial reviews; reinsurers that are financially troubled (i.e., in run-off, have voluntarily or involuntarily been placed in receivership, are insolvent, are in the process of liquidation or otherwise subject to formal or informal regulatory restriction) are assigned ORRs that will generate significant allowance; and  whether collateral and collateral arrangements exist. An estimate of the reinsurance recoverable’s lifetime expected credit losses is established utilizing a probability of default and loss given default method, which reflects the reinsurer’s ORR rating. The allowance for credit losses excludes disputed amounts. An allowance for disputes is established for a reinsurance recoverable using the losses incurred model for contingencies. At December 31, 2020, the allowance for credit losses and disputes on reinsurance recoverable was $375 million, or less than one percent of the consolidated reinsurance recoverable. Risk transfer All insurance contracts, including reinsurance contracts, must meet risk transfer requirements in order to use insurance accounting, principally resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract as premiums and losses. If risk transfer requirements are not met, a contract is to be accounted for as a deposit, typically resulting in the recognition of cash flows under the contract through a deposit asset or liability and not as revenue or expense. To meet risk transfer requirements, all insurance and reinsurance contracts must include insurance risk, consisting of underwriting and timing risk; in addition, reinsurance contracts must also include a reasonable possibility of a significant loss for the assuming entity. We have entered into certain insurance and reinsurance contracts, primarily in our General Insurance companies, that do not contain sufficient insurance risk to be accounted for as insurance or reinsurance and are therefore subject to deposit accounting. For additional information on reinsurance see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 65 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES AND GOODWILL Impairment Allowance for Credit Losses Available for sale securities If we intend to sell a fixed maturity security, or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis and the fair value of the security is below amortized cost, an impairment has occurred and the amortized cost is written down to current fair value, with a corresponding charge to realized capital losses. No allowance is established in these situations and any previously recorded allowance is reversed. When assessing our intent to sell a fixed maturity security, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell a fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, management evaluates relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, decisions to reposition our investment portfolio, sales of securities to meet cash flow needs and sales of securities to take advantage of favorable pricing. For fixed maturity securities for which a decline in the fair value below the amortized cost is due to credit related factors, an allowance is established for the difference between the estimated recoverable value and amortized cost with a corresponding charge to realized capital losses. The allowance for credit losses is limited to the difference between amortized cost and fair value. The estimated recoverable value is the present value of cash flows expected to be collected, as determined by management. The difference between fair value and amortized cost that is not associated with credit related factors is presented in unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of fixed maturity securities on which an allowance for credit losses was previously recognized (a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income). Accrued interest is excluded from the measurement of the allowance for credit losses. Commercial and residential mortgage loans At the time of origination or purchase, an allowance for credit losses is established for mortgage and other loan receivables and is updated each reporting period. Changes in the allowance for credit losses are recorded in realized capital losses. This allowance reflects the risk of loss, even when that risk is remote, and reflects losses expected over the remaining contractual life of the loan. The allowance for credit losses considers available relevant information about the collectability of cash flows, including information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. We revert to historical information when we determine that we can no longer reliably forecast future economic assumptions. The allowances for the commercial mortgage loans and residential mortgage loans are estimated utilizing a probability of default and loss given default model. Loss rate factors are determined based on historical data and adjusted for current and forecasted information. The loss rates are applied based on individual loan attributes and considering such data points as loan-to-value ratios, Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO) scores, and debt service coverage. The estimate of credit losses also reflects management’s assumptions on certain macroeconomic factors that include, but are not limited to, gross domestic product growth, employment, inflation, housing price index, interest rates and credit spreads. For additional information on the methodology and significant inputs, by investment type, that we use to determine the amount of impairment and allowances for loan losses see the discussion in Notes 6 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment For a discussion of goodwill impairment see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Estimates and Assumptions and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, for substantially all of the reporting units we elected to bypass the qualitative assessment of whether goodwill impairment may exist and, therefore, performed quantitative assessments that supported a conclusion that the fair value of all of the reporting units tested exceeded their book value. To determine fair value, we primarily use a discounted expected future cash flow analysis that estimates and discounts projected future distributable earnings. Such analysis is principally based on our business projections that inherently include judgments regarding business trends. COVID-19 has caused significant market volatility impacting our actual and projected results and contributed to a decline in our stock price. As this is an evolving crisis, we expect to continue to monitor developments and perform updated analyses as necessary. Liability for Legal Contingencies We estimate and record a liability for potential losses that may arise from regulatory and government investigations and actions and litigation and other forms of dispute resolution to the extent such losses are probable and can be estimated. Determining a reasonable estimate of the amount of such losses requires significant management judgment. In many cases, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred or to estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until the matter is close to resolution. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases that are in the early 66 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates stages of litigation or in which claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages, we often cannot predict the outcome or estimate the eventual loss or range of reasonably possible losses related to such matters. Given the inherent unpredictability of such matters, the outcome of certain matters could, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For more information on legal, regulatory and litigation matters see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fair Value Measurements of Certain Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities For additional information about the measurement of fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities and our accounting policy regarding the incorporation of credit risk in fair value measurements see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents the fair value of fixed maturity and equity securities by source of value determination: (a) Includes $20.6 billion for which the primary source is broker quotes. (b) Includes available for sale and other securities. Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three levels based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. For additional information see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents the amount of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3: Level 3 fair value measurements are based on valuation techniques that use at least one significant input that is unobservable. We consider unobservable inputs to be those for which market data is not available and that are developed using the best information available about the assumptions that market participants would use when valuing the asset or liability. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. We classify fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities as Level 3 when they require significant unobservable inputs in their valuation, including contractual terms, prices and rates, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates, default rates, mortality rates, policyholder behavior, and correlations of such inputs. For a discussion of the valuation methodologies for assets and liabilities measured at fair value, as well as a discussion of transfers of Level 3 assets and liabilities see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes Recoverability of Net Deferred Tax Asset The evaluation of the recoverability of our deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists, the more positive evidence is necessary and the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed. We consider a number of factors to reliably estimate future taxable income so we can determine the extent of our ability to realize net operating losses, foreign tax credits, realized capital loss and other carryforwards. These factors include forecasts of future income for each of our businesses and actual and planned business and operational changes, both of which include assumptions about future AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 67 ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates macroeconomic and AIG specific conditions and events. We subject the forecasts to stresses of key assumptions and evaluate the effect on tax attribute utilization. We also apply stresses to our assumptions about the effectiveness of relevant prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. We have also considered the impact of the Tax Act on our forecasts of taxable income, made certain assumptions related to interpretation of relevant new rules, and incorporated guidance issued by the U.S. tax authority. Our analysis also reflects the effect of slower utilization of our tax credits due to a reduction in the U.S. statutory tax rate as a result of the Tax Act. Recent events, including the COVID-19 crisis, multiple reductions in target interest rates by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and significant market volatility, continued to impact actual and projected results of our business operations as well as our views on potential effectiveness of certain prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In order to demonstrate the predictability and sufficiency of future taxable income necessary to support the realizability of the net operating losses and foreign tax credit carryforwards, we have considered forecasts of future income for each of our businesses, including assumptions about future macro-economic and AIG-specific conditions and events, and any impact these conditions and events may have on our prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. We also subjected the forecasts to a variety of stresses of key assumptions and evaluated the effect on tax attribute utilization. The carryforward periods of our foreign tax credit carryforwards range from tax years 2021 through 2023. Carryforward periods for our net operating losses extend from 2028 forward. However, utilization of a portion of our net operating losses is limited under separate return limitation year rules. Based on 2020 events and our analysis of their potential impact on utilization of our tax attributes, we concluded that a valuation allowance should be established on a portion of our foreign tax credit carryforwards that are no longer more-likely-than-not to be realized, all of which was allocated to continuing operations. For 2020, recent changes in market conditions, including the COVID-19 crisis and interest rate fluctuations, impacted the unrealized tax gains and losses in the U.S. Life Insurance companies’ available for sale securities portfolio, resulting in a deferred tax liability related to net unrealized tax capital gains. As of December 31, 2020, based on all available evidence, we concluded that no valuation allowance is necessary in the U.S. Life Insurance companies’ available for sale securities portfolio. For 2020, recent changes in market conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, impacted the unrealized tax gains and losses in the U.S. non-life companies’ available for sale securities portfolio, resulting in a deferred tax liability related to net unrealized tax capital gains. As of December 31, 2020, based on all available evidence, we concluded that no valuation allowance is necessary in the U.S. non-life companies’ available for sale securities portfolio. For a discussion of our framework for assessing the recoverability of our deferred tax asset see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Uncertain Tax Positions Our accounting for income taxes, including uncertain tax positions, represents management’s best estimate of various events and transactions, and requires judgment. FASB Interpretation No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes” now incorporated into Accounting Standards Codification, 740, Income Taxes prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of an income tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The standard also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties and additional disclosures. We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained, based on technical merits, upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recognized in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. We classify interest expense and penalties recognized on income taxes as a component of income taxes. U.S. Income Taxes on Earnings of Certain Foreign Subsidiaries The U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to determining the amount of income taxes related to differences between the book carrying amounts and tax bases of subsidiaries are complex. Determining the amount also requires significant judgment and reliance on reasonable assumptions and estimates. U.S. Tax Law Changes On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Act. The Tax Act reduced the statutory rate of U.S. federal corporate income tax to 21 percent and enacted numerous other changes impacting AIG and the insurance industry. The Tax Act includes provisions for GILTI under which taxes are imposed on the excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of certain foreign subsidiaries and for BEAT under which taxes are imposed on certain base eroding payments to affiliated foreign companies. While the U.S. tax authorities issued formal guidance, including recently issued regulations for BEAT and other provisions of the Tax Act, there are still certain aspects of the Tax Act that remain unclear and subject to substantial uncertainties. Additional guidance is expected in future periods. Such guidance may result in changes to the interpretations and assumptions we made and 68 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates actions we may take, which may impact amounts recorded with respect to international provisions of the Tax Act, possibly materially. Consistent with accounting guidance, we treat BEAT as a period tax charge in the period the tax is incurred and have made an accounting policy election to treat GILTI taxes in a similar manner. On March 27, 2020, the U.S. enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act to mitigate the economic impacts of the COVID-19 crisis. The tax provisions of the CARES Act have not had and are currently not expected to have a material impact on AIG’s U.S. federal tax liabilities. For an additional discussion of the Tax Act see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Executive Summary Overview This overview of the MD&A highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to current or potential investors in our securities. You should read this Annual Report in its entirety for a more detailed description of events, trends, uncertainties, risks and critical accounting estimates affecting us. Announcement of Intent to Separate Life and Retirement On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. No decisions have yet been made regarding the structure of the initial disposition of up to a 19.9% interest in the Life and Retirement business. In addition, any separation transaction will be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including approval by the AIG Board of Directors, receipt of insurance and other required regulatory approvals, and satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the SEC. No assurance can be given regarding the form that a separation transaction may take or the specific terms or timing thereof, or that a separation will in fact occur. Sale of Fortitude Holdings On June 2, 2020, we completed the sale of a majority of the interests in Fortitude Holdings to Carlyle FRL, an investment fund advised by an affiliate of Carlyle, and T&D, a subsidiary of T&D Holdings, Inc., under the terms of a membership interest purchase agreement entered into on November 25, 2019 by and among AIG, Fortitude Holdings, Carlyle FRL, Carlyle, T&D and T&D Holdings, Inc. (the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale). AIG established Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd. (Fortitude Re), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fortitude Holdings, in 2018 in a series of reinsurance transactions related to AIG’s Run-Off portfolio. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $30.5 billion of reserves from AIG’s Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and approximately $4.1 billion of reserves from AIG’s General Insurance Run-Off Lines, related to business written by multiple wholly-owned AIG subsidiaries, had been ceded to Fortitude Re under these reinsurance transactions. As of closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, these reinsurance transactions are no longer considered affiliated transactions and Fortitude Re is the reinsurer of the majority of AIG’s Run-Off operations. As these reinsurance transactions are structured as modified coinsurance and loss portfolio transfers with funds withheld, following the closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, AIG continues to reflect the invested assets, which consist mostly of available for sale securities, supporting Fortitude Re’s obligations, in AIG’s financial statements. AIG sold a 19.9 percent ownership interest in Fortitude Holdings to TCG, an affiliate of Carlyle, in November 2018 (the 2018 Fortitude Sale). As a result of completion of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, Carlyle FRL purchased from AIG a 51.6 percent ownership interest in Fortitude Holdings and T&D purchased from AIG a 25 percent ownership interest in Fortitude Holdings; AIG retained a 3.5 percent ownership interest in Fortitude Holdings and one seat on its Board of Managers. The $2.2 billion of proceeds received by AIG at closing include (i) the $1.8 billion under the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, which is subject to a post-closing purchase price adjustment pursuant to which AIG will pay Fortitude Re for certain adverse development in property casualty related reserves, based on an agreed methodology, that may occur on or prior to December 31, 2023, up to a maximum payment of $500 million; and (ii) a $383 million purchase price adjustment from Carlyle FRL and T&D, corresponding to their respective portions of a proposed $500 million non-pro rata distribution from Fortitude Holdings that was not received by AIG prior to the closing. For further discussion on the sale of Fortitude Holdings see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 69 ITEM 7 | Executive Summary Segment Changes In the fourth quarter of 2020, AIG’s chief operating decision makers modified their view of AIG’s businesses and how they allocate resources and assess performance. The new operating structure no longer includes a Legacy segment. AIG now reports the results of its businesses through three segments – General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our segment changes. Financial Performance Summary 70 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Executive Summary AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 71 ITEM 7 | Executive Summary * Non-GAAP measure – for reconciliation of Non-GAAP to GAAP measures see Consolidated Results of Operations . 72 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Executive Summary AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 73 ITEM 7 | Executive Summary AIG’s Outlook – Industry and economic factors Our business is affected by industry and economic factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, credit and equity market conditions, catastrophic claims events, regulation, tax policy, competition, and general economic, market and political conditions. We continued to operate under difficult market conditions in 2020, characterized by factors such as the impact of COVID-19 and the related governmental and societal responses, historically low interest rates, global economic contraction, global trade tensions and Brexit. Brexit has also affected the U.S. dollar/British pound exchange rate and increased the volatility of exchange rates among the Euro, British pound and the Japanese yen (the Major Currencies), which may continue for some time. On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. No decisions have yet been made regarding the structure of the initial disposition of up to a 19.9% interest in the Life and Retirement business. In addition, any separation transaction will be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including approval by the AIG Board of Directors, receipt of insurance and other required regulatory approvals, and satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the SEC. No assurance can be given regarding the form that a separation transaction may take or the specific terms or timing thereof, or that a separation will in fact occur. For additional information please see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Business and Operations – No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will occur or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, the separation could cause the emergence or exacerbate the effects of other risks to which AIG is exposed. Impact of COVID-19 We are continually assessing the impact on our business, operations and investments of COVID-19 and the resulting ongoing and severe economic and societal disruption. These impacts, including a global economic contraction, disruptions in financial markets, increased market volatility and declines in certain equity and other asset prices have had and may continue to have negative effects on our investments, our access to liquidity, our ability to generate new sales and the costs associated with claims. In addition, in response to the crisis, new governmental, legislative and regulatory actions have been taken and continue to be developed that have resulted and could continue to result in additional restrictions and requirements, or court decisions rendered, relating to or otherwise affecting our policies that may have a negative impact on our business, operations and capital. General Insurance offers numerous products for which we are monitoring claims activity and assessing adverse impact on future new and renewal business in relation to the COVID-19 crisis. General Insurance had $2.4 billion of pre-tax catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, in 2020, which included $1.1 billion of estimated COVID-19 losses primarily related to Commercial Property, Validus Re, contingency and travel. The remainder of the catastrophe losses were primarily weather-related. We are continually reassessing our exposures in light of unfolding developments in the U.S. and globally and evaluating coverage by our reinsurance arrangements. In our Life and Retirement business, the most significant impacts relating to COVID-19 have been the impact of interest rate and equity market levels on spread and fee income, deferred acquisition cost amortization and adverse mortality. We are actively monitoring our claims activity and the potential direct and indirect impacts that COVID-19 may have across our portfolio of Life and Retirement businesses. We have a diverse investment portfolio with material exposures to various forms of credit risk. To date, the far reaching economic impacts of COVID-19 have been largely offset, to date, by intervention taken by governments and monetary authorities and equity market rebound resulting in a minimal impact on the value of the portfolio. At this point in time, uncertainty surrounding the duration and severity of the COVID-19 crisis makes the long-term financial impact difficult to quantify. For additional information please see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto. Impact of Changes in the Interest Rate Environment In 2020, interest rates declined in response to COVID-19 and related impacts with key benchmark rates in the U.S. and in many developed markets close to historic lows and, in some international jurisdictions, negative. The low interest rate environment negatively affects sales of interest rate sensitive products in our industry and negatively impacts the profitability of our existing business as we reinvest cash flows from investments, including increased calls and prepayments of fixed maturity securities and mortgage loans, at rates below the average yield of our existing portfolios. The severe market impacts in 2020 have, however, resulted in an increase in certain credit spreads that partially offset the decrease in benchmark rates. On the other hand, if rates rise, some of these impacts may abate while there may be different impacts, some of which are highlighted below. We actively manage our exposure to the interest rate environment through portfolio selection and asset-liability management, including spread management 74 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Executive Summary strategies for our investment-oriented products and economic hedging of interest rate risk from guarantee features in our variable and fixed index annuities. Additionally, sustained low interest rates may result in higher pension expense due to the impact on discounting of projected benefit cash flows. Annuity Sales and Surrenders The sustained low interest rate environment has a significant impact on the annuity industry. Low long-term interest rates put pressure on investment returns, which may negatively affect sales of interest rate sensitive products and reduce future profits on certain existing fixed rate products. However, our disciplined rate setting has helped to mitigate some of the pressure on investment spreads. Rapidly rising interest rates could create the potential for increased sales, but may also drive higher surrenders. Fixed annuities have surrender charge periods, generally in the three-to-five year range, which may help mitigate increased early surrenders in a rising rate environment. In addition, older contracts that have higher minimum interest rates and continue to be attractive to the contract holders have driven better than expected persistency in fixed annuities, although the reserves for such contracts have continued to decrease over time in amount and as a percentage of the total annuity portfolio. We closely monitor surrenders of fixed annuities as contracts with lower minimum interest rates come out of the surrender charge period. Low interest rates have also reduced growth in our fixed index annuity products, which provide additional interest crediting, tied to favorable performance in certain equity market indices and the availability of guaranteed living benefits. Changes in interest rates significantly impact the valuation of our liabilities for annuities with guaranteed income features and the value of the related hedging portfolio. Reinvestment and Spread Management We actively monitor fixed income markets, including the level of interest rates, credit spreads and the shape of the yield curve. We also frequently review our interest rate assumptions and actively manage the crediting rates used for new and in-force business. Business strategies continue to evolve to maintain profitability of the overall business in light of the interest rate environment. A low interest rate environment puts margin pressure on pricing of new business and on existing products, due to the challenge of investing new money or recurring premiums and deposits, and reinvesting investment portfolio cash flows, in the low interest rate environment. In addition, there is investment risk associated with future premium receipts from certain in-force business. Specifically, the investment of these future premium receipts may be at a yield below that required to meet future policy liabilities. The contractual provisions for renewal of crediting rates and guaranteed minimum crediting rates included in products may reduce spreads in a sustained low interest rate environment and thus reduce future profitability. Although this interest rate risk is partially mitigated through the asset-liability management process, product design elements and crediting rate strategies, a sustained low interest rate environment may negatively affect future profitability. For additional information on our investment and asset-liability management strategies see Investments. For investment-oriented products in our Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets businesses, our spread management strategies include disciplined pricing and product design for new business, modifying or limiting the sale of products that do not achieve targeted spreads, using asset-liability management to match assets to liabilities to the extent practicable, and actively managing crediting rates to help mitigate some of the pressure on investment spreads. Renewal crediting rate management is done under contractual provisions that were designed to allow crediting rates to be reset at pre-established intervals in accordance with state and federal laws and subject to minimum crediting rate guarantees. We will continue to adjust crediting rates on in-force business to mitigate the pressure on spreads from declining base yields, but our ability to lower crediting rates may be limited by the competitive environment, contractual minimum crediting rates, and provisions that allow rates to be reset only at pre-established intervals. As and when interest rates begin to rise again, we may need to raise crediting rates on in-force business for competitive and other reasons potentially reducing the impact of investing in a higher interest rate environment. Of the aggregate fixed account values of our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement annuity products, 67 percent were crediting at the contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate at December 31, 2020. The percentage of fixed account values of our annuity products that are currently crediting at rates above one percent was 59 percent and 61 percent at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. These businesses continue to focus on pricing discipline and strategies to manage the minimum guaranteed interest crediting rates offered on new sales in the context of regulatory requirements and competitive positioning. In the core universal life business in our Life Insurance business, 68 percent of the account values were crediting at the contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate at December 31, 2020. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 75 ITEM 7 | Executive Summary The following table presents fixed annuity and universal life account values of our Individual Retirement, Group Retirement and Life Insurance operating segments by contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate and current crediting rates, excluding balances ceded to Fortitude Re: * Individual Retirement and Group Retirement amounts shown include fixed options within variable annuity products. General Insurance The impact of low interest rates on our General Insurance segment is primarily on our long-tail Casualty line of business. We currently expect limited impacts on our existing long-tail Casualty business as the duration of our assets is slightly longer than that of our liabilities. Sustained low interest rates would potentially impact new and renewal business for the long-tail Casualty line as we may not be able to adjust our future pricing consistent with our profitability objectives to fully offset the impact of investing at lower rates. However, we will continue to maintain pricing discipline and risk selection. In addition, for our General Insurance segment, sustained low interest rates may unfavorably affect the net loss reserve discount for workers’ compensation, and to a lesser extent could favorably impact assumptions about future medical costs, the combined net effect of which could result in higher net loss reserves. 76 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Executive Summary Standard of Care Developments In our Life and Retirement business, we and our distributors are subject to laws and regulations regarding the standard of care applicable to sales of our products and the provision of advice to our customers. In recent years, many of these laws and regulations have been revised or reexamined while others have been newly adopted. We continue to closely follow these legislative and regulatory activities. For additional information regarding these legislative and regulatory activities, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Standard of Care Developments . Changes in standard of care requirements or new standards issued by governmental authorities, such as the DOL, the SEC, the NAIC or state regulators and/or legislators, may affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict the long-term impact of these legislative and regulatory developments on our Life and Retirement businesses, we believe our diverse product offerings and distribution relationships position us to compete effectively in this evolving marketplace. Impact of Currency Volatility Currency volatility remains acute. Such volatility affected line item components of income for those businesses with substantial international operations. In particular, growth trends in net premiums written reported in U.S. dollars can differ significantly from those measured in original currencies. The net effect on underwriting results, however, is significantly mitigated, as both revenues and expenses are similarly affected. These currencies may continue to fluctuate, in either direction, especially as a result of the UK’s exit from the EU, and such fluctuations will affect net premiums written growth trends reported in U.S. dollars, as well as financial statement line item comparability. General Insurance businesses are transacted in most major foreign currencies. The following table presents the average of the quarterly weighted average exchange rates of the Major Currencies, which have the most significant impact on our businesses: Unless otherwise noted, references to the effects of foreign exchange in the General Insurance discussion of results of operations are with respect to movements in the Major Currencies included in the preceding table. Other Industry Developments On September 7, 2017, the UK Ministry of Justice announced a proposal to increase the Ogden rate from negative 0.75 percent to between zero and one percent. Following this announcement, on December 20, 2018 the UK Parliament passed the Civil Liability Act 2018 which implements a new framework for determining the Ogden rate and requires the UK Ministry of Justice to start a review of the Ogden rate within 90 days of its commencement and review periodically thereafter. The Ministry of Justice concluded a public call for evidence on January 30, 2019 prior to beginning its first review. On July 15, 2019, the UK Ministry of Justice announced a change in the Ogden rate from negative 0.75 percent to negative 0.25 percent with an effective date of August 5, 2019. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 77 ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations The following section provides a comparative discussion of our Consolidated Results of Operations on a reported basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2020. Factors that relate primarily to a specific business are discussed in more detail within the business segment operations section. For a discussion of the Critical Accounting Estimates that affect our results of operations see Critical Accounting Estimates . The following table presents our consolidated results of operations and other key financial metrics: 78 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations The following table presents a reconciliation of Book value per common share to Book value per common share, excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets and DTA (Adjusted book value per common share), which is a non-GAAP measure. For additional information see Use of Non-GAAP Measures. The following table presents a reconciliation of Return on common equity to Adjusted return on common equity, which is a non-GAAP measure. For additional information see Use of Non-GAAP Measures. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 79 ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations The following table presents a reconciliation of pre-tax income/net income (loss) attributable to AIG to adjusted pre-tax income/adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG: (a) The year ended December 31, 2020 includes the tax audit resolution related to the IRS audit settlement for tax years 1991-2006 and the write-down of net operating loss deferred tax assets in certain foreign jurisdictions, which is offset by valuation allowance release. (b) The year ended December 31, 2020 includes valuation allowance established against a portion of foreign tax credit carryforwards of AIG’s U.S. federal consolidated income tax group, as well as net valuation allowance release in certain foreign jurisdictions for 2020. (c) Represents activity subsequent to the deconsolidation of Fortitude Re on June 2, 2020. (d) Includes all net realized capital gains and losses except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication and net realized gains and losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets. (e) Prior to June 2, 2020, noncontrolling interests was primarily due to the 19.9 percent investment in Fortitude Holdings by an affiliate of Carlyle, which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2018. Carlyle was allocated 19.9 percent of Fortitude Holdings’ standalone financial results through the June 2, 2020 closing date of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale. Fortitude Holdings’ results were mostly eliminated in AIG’s consolidated income from continuing operations given that its results arose from intercompany transactions. Noncontrolling interests was calculated based on the standalone financial results of Fortitude Holdings. The most significant component of Fortitude Holdings’ standalone results was the change in fair value of the embedded derivatives which changes with movements in interest rates and credit spreads, and which was recorded in net realized capital gains and losses of Fortitude Holdings. In accordance with AIG's adjusted after-tax income definition, realized capital gains and losses are excluded from noncontrolling interests. Subsequent to the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, AIG owns 3.5 percent of Fortitude Holdings and no longer consolidates Fortitude Holdings in its financial statements as of such date. The minority interest in Fortitude Holdings is carried at cost within AIG’s Other invested assets, which was $100 million as of December 31, 2020. 80 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations Fortitude Holdings’ summarized financial information (standalone results), prior to the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale on June 2, 2020, is presented below: (f) For the year ended December 31, 2020, because we reported a net loss attributable to AIG common shareholders, all common stock equivalents are anti-dilutive and are therefore excluded from the calculation of diluted shares and diluted per share amounts. However, because we reported adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders, the calculation of adjusted after-tax income per diluted share attributable to AIG common shareholders includes 5,401,597 dilutive shares for the year ended December 31, 2020. pre-tax income (LOSS) Comparison for 2020 and 2019 We recorded a pre-tax loss in 2020 compared to pre-tax income in 2019 primarily due to:  an $8.3 billion loss on the closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale;  higher catastrophe losses in General Insurance due to the impact of COVID-19, wildfires, civil unrest and other events and unfavorable impact from COVID-19 mortality in Life and Retirement;  lower investment returns due primarily to lower income on our available for sale fixed maturity securities due to yield compression and fixed maturity securities for which the fair value option was elected due to a widening of credit spreads in 2020. This compares to the prior year where we experienced higher income on our available for sale fixed maturity securities and higher gains on our fixed maturity securities for which the fair value option was elected due to a decrease in rates and narrowing of credit spreads;  net realized capital losses in 2020 compared to net realized gains in the prior year due to: – fair value loss on embedded derivative related to the Fortitude Re funds withheld assets; – partially offset by Life and Retirement guaranteed living benefits, net of hedges, reflecting net realized capital gains in 2020 compared to net realized capital losses in 2019, primarily due to changes in the movement in the NPA, which is not hedged as part of our economic hedging program (see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Reserves and DAC – Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results) .  asset impairment charges as a result of Blackboard being placed into run-off. This decrease was partially offset by:  lower accident year loss ratio, as adjusted due to underwriting discipline, increased use of reinsurance and a change in business mix;  lower net loss reserve discount charge; and  lower general operating expenses primarily driven by lower employee related expenses as well as a reduction in travel expenses as a result of the COVID-19 crisis. pre-tax income (LOSS) Comparison for 2019 and 2018 Pre-tax income increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to:  improvement in accident year losses in General Insurance as a result of underwriting discipline, increased use of reinsurance and a change in business mix as well as lower catastrophe losses and favorable prior year loss reserve development compared to unfavorable loss reserve development in the prior year in General Insurance;  higher investment returns in our alternative investments portfolio due to robust equity market returns in 2019, income from an initial public offering of a holding in the private equity portfolio, and an increase in income from fixed maturity securities for which the fair value option was elected. This compares to lower returns in the prior year as a result of an increase in interest rates and widening credit spreads that occurred, lower hedge fund performance, as well as negative performance of our fair value option equity securities portfolio; AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 81 ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations  net realized capital gains in 2019 compared to net realized capital losses in the prior year due to gains on the sales of securities and foreign exchange compared to losses on sales of securities and foreign exchange in 2018, as well as lower impairments in 2019 and losses on private equity sales in 2018. Partially offsetting these gains were derivative losses in 2019 compared to gains in 2018; and  lower general and other operating expenses as a result of ongoing strategic initiatives to reduce costs. These increases were partially offset by:  a net loss reserve discount charge in 2019 compared to a loss reserve discount benefit in the prior year. U.S. Tax law changes On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted Public Law 115-97, known informally as the Tax Act. The Tax Act includes provisions for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) under which taxes are imposed on the excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of certain foreign subsidiaries and for Base Erosion and Anti Abuse Tax (BEAT) under which taxes are imposed on certain base eroding payments to affiliated foreign companies. While the U.S. tax authorities issued formal guidance, including recently issued regulations for BEAT and other provisions of the Tax Act, there are still certain aspects of the Tax Act that remain unclear and subject to substantial uncertainties. Additional guidance is expected in future periods. Such guidance may result in changes to the interpretations and assumptions we made and actions we may take, which may impact amounts recorded with respect to international provisions of the Tax Act, possibly materially. Consistent with accounting guidance, we treat BEAT as a period tax charge in the period the tax is incurred and have made an accounting policy election to treat GILTI taxes in a similar manner. On March 27, 2020, the U.S. enacted the CARES Act to mitigate the economic impacts of the COVID-19 crisis. The tax provisions of the CARES Act have not had and are currently not expected to have a material impact on AIG’s U.S. federal tax liabilities. Repatriation Assumptions For 2020, we consider our foreign earnings with respect to certain operations in Canada, South Africa, the Far East, Latin America, Bermuda as well as the European, Asia Pacific and Middle East regions to be indefinitely reinvested. These earnings relate to ongoing operations and have been reinvested in active business operations. Deferred taxes, if necessary, have been provided on earnings of non-U.S. affiliates whose earnings are not indefinitely reinvested. INCOME TAX EXPENSE ANALYSIS For the year ended December 31, 2020, the effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations was 20.0 percent. The effective tax rate on loss from continuing operations differs from the statutory tax rate of 21 percent primarily due to:  tax charges of: – $186 million related to tax effects of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, – $150 million associated with the establishment of U.S. federal valuation allowance related to certain tax attribute carryforwards, – $165 million net charge associated with changes in uncertain tax positions primarily driven by the accrual of IRS interest, – $76 million associated with the effect of foreign operations; and – $35 million of excess tax charges related to share-based compensation payments recorded through the income statement;  partially offset by tax benefits of: – $379 million associated with the remeasurement of tax liabilities, penalties and interest primarily related to the IRS audit settlement for tax years 1991-2006, – $101 million of reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income to income from continuing operations related to the disposal of available for sale securities, and – $58 million associated with tax exempt income . The effect of foreign operations is primarily related to income and losses in our foreign operations taxed at statutory tax rates different than 21 percent and foreign income subject to U.S. taxation. 82 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations For the year ended December 31, 2019, the effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 22.1 percent. The effective tax rate on income from continuing operations differs from the statutory tax rate of 21 percent primarily due to:  tax charges of: – $96 million net charge primarily related to the accrual of IRS interest (including interest related to uncertain tax positions), – $82 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, – $37 million of tax charges and related interest associated with increases in uncertain tax positions primarily related to open tax issues and audits in state and local jurisdictions, – $27 million of excess tax charges related to share-based compensation payments recorded through the income statement, and – $15 million of non-deductible transfer pricing charges;  partially offset by tax benefits of: – $113 million of reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income to income from continuing operations related to the disposal of available for sale securities, – $65 million associated with tax exempt income, and – $44 million of valuation allowance activity related to certain foreign subsidiaries and state jurisdictions. The effect of foreign operations is primarily related to income and losses in our foreign operations taxed at statutory tax rates different than 21 percent and foreign income subject to U.S. taxation. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the effective tax rate on income from continuing operations was 59.9 percent. The effective tax rate on income from continuing operations differs from the statutory tax rate of 21 percent primarily due to:  tax charges of: – $83 million net charge primarily related to the accrual of IRS interest (including interest related to uncertain tax positions), – $62 million measurement period adjustment related to the deemed repatriation tax, – $44 million associated with the effect of foreign operations, – $21 million of additional U.S. taxes imposed on income of our foreign subsidiaries under international provisions of the Tax Act, – $21 million valuation allowance activity related to certain foreign subsidiaries and state jurisdictions, and – $29 million of non-deductible transfer pricing charges;  partially offset by tax benefits of: – $72 million of reclassifications from accumulated other comprehensive income to income from continuing operations related to the disposal of available for sale securities, – $37 million of tax exempt income, and – $13 million of excess tax deductions related to share based compensation payments recorded through the income statement. The effect of foreign operations is primarily related to income and losses in our foreign operations taxed at statutory tax rates different than 21 percent and foreign income subject to U.S. taxation. For additional information see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 83 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations Business Segment Operations Our business operations consist of General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. General Insurance consists of two operating segments: North America and International. Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments: Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. Other Operations is primarily comprised of corporate, our institutional asset management business and consolidation and eliminations. On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. In the fourth quarter of 2020, AIG’s chief operating decision makers modified their view of AIG’s businesses and how they allocate resources and assess performance. The new operating structure no longer includes a Legacy segment. AIG now reports the results of its businesses through three segments – General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. Prior periods were revised to conform to the current period presentation. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our segment changes. The following table summarizes Adjusted pre-tax income (loss) from our business segment operations. See also Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 84 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance General Insurance is managed by our geographic markets of North America and International. Our global presence is reflected in our multinational capabilities to provide our Commercial Lines and Personal Insurance products within these geographic markets. General Insurance products in North America and International markets are distributed through various channels, including captive and independent agents, brokers, affinity partners, airlines and travel agents, and retailers. Our distribution network is aided by our competitive position to write multiple-national and cross-border risks in both Commercial Lines and Personal Insurance. BUSINESS STRATEGY Profitable Growth: Deploy capital efficiently to act opportunistically and optimize diversity within the portfolio to grow in profitable lines, geographies and customer segments. Look to inorganic growth opportunities in profitable markets and segments to expand our capabilities and footprint. Reinsurance Optimization: Strategically partner with reinsurers to reduce exposure to losses arising from frequency of large catastrophic events and the severity from individual risk losses. We strive to optimize our reinsurance program to manage volatility and protect the balance sheet from tail events and unpredictable net losses in support of our profitable growth objectives. Underwriting Excellence: Empower and increase accountability of the underwriter and continue to integrate underwriting, claims and actuarial to enable better decision making. Focus on enhancing risk selection, driving consistent underwriting best practices and building robust monitoring standards to improve underwriting results. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 85 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance COMPETITION and challenges Operating in a highly competitive industry, General Insurance competes against several hundred companies, specialty insurance organizations, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations in the U.S. In international markets, we compete for business with the foreign insurance operations of large global insurance groups and local companies in specific market areas and product types. Insurance companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, service and terms and conditions. General Insurance seeks to distinguish itself in the insurance industry primarily based on its well-established brand, global franchise, multinational capabilities, financial and capital strength, innovative products, claims expertise to handle complex claims, expertise in providing specialized coverages and customer service. We serve our business and individual customers on a global basis – from the largest multinational corporations to local businesses and individuals. Our clients benefit from our substantial underwriting expertise. Our challenges include:  long-tail Commercial Lines exposures that create added challenges to pricing and risk management;  over-capacity in certain lines of business that creates downward market pressure on pricing;  tort environment volatility in certain jurisdictions and lines of business; and  volatility in claims arising from natural and man-made catastrophes, including public health events, such as the COVID-19 crisis. OUTLOOK–INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Below is a discussion of the industry and economic factors impacting our operating segments: The ultimate impact of COVID-19 continues to evolve and will depend upon the scope, severity and duration of the crisis as well as the actions taken by governments, legislative bodies or regulators and other third parties in response, all of which are subject to continuing uncertainty. The results for 2020 include COVID-19 related impacts to both our premium volume and our estimates for catastrophe losses. COVID-19 has driven a material reduction in our revenues in 2020, particularly within the Travel line of business (given the travel restrictions imposed as a result of COVID-19 and the global slowdown) and other lines to a lesser degree. The recessionary impact of COVID-19 has and continues to adversely affect our clients, particularly in certain industry segments where demand and exposures dropped significantly and is likely to remain challenging for a period of time, even after the COVID-19 crisis subsides. The ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our business will depend upon the speed at which government mandated safety precautions can be lifted (and the impact of any future shutdowns), the distribution and effectiveness of vaccinations, and the manner and speed with which economic activity rebounds. Although we have seen some benefit in claims experience in lines where economic and social activities have been suppressed (e.g. Personal Auto), this continues to be partly offset by requirements for premium refunds in those lines. The regulatory approach to the crisis and impact on the insurance industry is still developing and its ultimate impact remains uncertain. General Insurance – North America In recent periods Commercial Lines have seen growing market support for rate increases in challenged businesses where major carriers are reducing risk appetite and exhibiting increasing market discipline. As a result, multiple markets are now experiencing rate increases. We are seeing rate increases across U.S. Financial Lines and Liability lines of business (outside of Workers’ Compensation), with a common driver being higher industry-wide claims severity trends, as well as within our Property portfolio. We continue to achieve positive rate increases across a number of lines and classes of business as a result of our disciplined underwriting strategy and focus on risk selection. Despite the higher rates, our retention of business remains in line with recent years and in certain instances has increased. These retention rates are often coupled with an exposure limit management strategy to reduce volatility within the portfolio. We continue to proactively identify businesses to grow in light of evolving market conditions using a portfolio management approach. Personal Insurance growth prospects are supported by the need for full life cycle products and coverage, increases in personal wealth accumulation, and awareness of insurance protection and risk management. We compete in the high net worth market, accident and health insurance, travel insurance, and warranty services and will continue to expand our innovative products and services to distribution partners and clients. 86 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance General Insurance – International We believe our global presence provides Commercial Lines and Personal Insurance a distinct competitive advantage, as the demand for multinational cross-border coverage and services increases due to the growing number of international customers, while giving us the ability to respond quickly to local market conditions and build client relationships. The Commercial Lines business is showing signs of change, with capacity reducing and the tightening of terms and conditions. We are continuing to grow our most profitable lines of business and diversify our portfolio across all regions by expanding into new product lines (e.g., cyber), new client types (e.g., middle market) and new distribution channels (e.g., digital and national brokers) while remaining a market leader in key developed and developing markets. Overall, Commercial Lines are showing positive rate increases, particularly in our Global Specialty, Financial Lines and Property portfolio and across international markets where market events or withdrawal of capability and capacity have favorably impacted pricing. We are maintaining our underwriting discipline, reducing gross and net limits, increasing use of reinsurance to reduce volatility, as well as continuing our risk selection strategy to improve profitability. Personal Insurance focuses on individual customers, as well as group and corporate clients. Although market competition within Personal Insurance has increased, we continue to benefit from the underwriting quality, portfolio diversity, and generally low volatility of the short-tailed risk in these business lines, although some product classes are exposed to catastrophe losses. General insurance RESULTS (a) In 2018, the underwriting loss included an additional $115 million of net premium earned for multi-year policies related to earlier accident years. (b) Consistent with our definition of APTI, excludes net loss reserve discount and the portion of favorable or unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk under retroactive reinsurance agreements and related changes in amortization of the deferred gain. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 87 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance The following table presents General Insurance net premiums written by operating segment, showing change on both reported and constant dollar basis: (a) As a result of the merger of AIU Insurance Company, Ltd. (AIUI Japan) and Fuji Fire and Marine Insurance Company (Fuji), Fuji’s fiscal reporting period was conformed to that of AIUI Japan (Japan Merger Impact). Therefore, 2018 included approximately $300 million for two additional months of Net premiums written. The following tables present General Insurance accident year catastrophes by geography (a) and number of events: Catastrophes (b) (a) Geography: North America primarily includes insurance businesses in the United States, Canada, Bermuda, and our global reinsurance business, AIG Re. International includes regional insurance businesses in Japan, the United Kingdom, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA region), Asia Pacific, Latin America and Caribbean, and China. International also includes the results of Talbot Holdings, Ltd. as well as AIG’s global specialty business. (b) Natural catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG in excess of $10 million each and man-made catastrophe losses, such as terrorism and civil disorders that exceed the $10 million threshold. (c) As the losses related to the wildfires continue to evolve given their geographical dispersion, the number of events is yet to be determined. (d) As COVID-19 continues to evolve and affects many lines of business, the number of events is yet to be determined. 88 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance North America Results (a) In 2018, the underwriting loss included an additional $115 million of net premium earned for multi-year policies related to earlier accident years. (b) Consistent with our definition of APTI, excludes net loss reserve discount and the portion of favorable or unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk under retroactive reinsurance agreements and related changes in amortization of the deferred gain. Business and Financial Highlights The North America General Insurance business continues to make progress in strengthening our underwriting, actively managing our portfolio to improve business mix and articulating our revised risk appetite to the marketplace. We are leading the industry across multiple lines in terms of driving rate momentum while simultaneously increasing the level of business retained in targeted lines. As we see increasing disruption in the marketplace, we are well placed to capitalize on opportunities, including within our excess and surplus business which is seeing an increase in submission flow and achieving significant rate improvement. During the second quarter of 2020, AIG entered into a series of quota share reinsurance agreements, including with Lloyd’s Syndicate 2019, a Lloyd’s syndicate managed by Talbot, to reinsure risks related to PCG. These transactions further AIG’s continued optimization of its General Insurance portfolio, create additional products for clients and diversify AIG’s capital base. The underwriting loss increased in 2020 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 on catastrophe losses and a higher accident year loss ratio, which resulted from a combination of an adverse effect from changes in business mix partially offset by a benefit from rate increases in Commercial Lines, partially offset by related lower acquisition expenses, higher favorable prior year loss reserve development and lower general operating expenses due to ongoing expense discipline. Net premiums written decreased in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior year primarily due to the new quota share reinsurance agreements related to PCG, which includes cessions to the newly launched Syndicate 2019, and the impact of COVID-19 most notably in Travel, partially offset by business growth and strong rate driven increases across Commercial Lines. For a discussion of Reinsurance Activities see MD&A - Enterprise Risk Management. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 89 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance 90 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 91 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance 92 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance International Results (a) As a result of the Japan Merger Impact, 2018 includes two additional months of operating earnings increasing Net premiums written, Net premiums earned, Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, and Underwriting income (loss) by approximately $300 million, $300 million, $200 million and $15 million, respectively. Business and Financial Highlights The International General Insurance business is focused on underwriting profits and improved efficiency, further improving underwriting margins, and growing profitably in businesses and geographies that support our growth strategy. Underwriting income decreased in 2020 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 on catastrophe losses, unfavorable prior year loss reserve development principally in Financial Lines as compared to favorable prior year loss reserve development in Global Specialty and Personal Auto in the prior year, partially offset by lower accident year loss ratio, as adjusted and lower general operating expenses. Net premiums written, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, decreased in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19, higher ceded premiums due to changes in the 2020 reinsurance program and lower premiums from run-off business partially offset by business growth and rate increases in Commercial Lines. For a discussion of Reinsurance Activities see Enterprise Risk Management . AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 93 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance 94 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 95 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance 96 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement , Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments: Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. We offer a broad portfolio of products in the U.S. through a multichannel distribution network and life and health products in the UK and Ireland. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 97 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) Funding Agreements are issued through our Individual Retirement, Group Retirement and Institutional Markets operating segments. Funding agreements are issued by our U.S. Life and Retirement companies to FHLBs in their respective districts at fixed or floating rates over specified periods, which can be prepaid at our discretion. Proceeds are generally invested in fixed income securities and other suitable investments to generate spread income. These investment contracts do not have mortality or morbidity risk and are similar to GICs. BUSINESS STRATEGY Deliver client-centric solutions through our unique franchise by bringing together a broad portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional products offered through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. Life and Retirement focuses on ease of doing business, offering valuable solutions, and expanding and deepening its distribution relationships across multiple channels. Position market leading businesses to serve growing needs by continually enhancing product solutions, service delivery and digital capabilities while using data and analytics in an innovative manner to improve customer experience. Enhance Operational Effectiveness by simplifying processes and operating environments to increase competitiveness, improve service and product capabilities and facilitate delivery of our target customer experience. W e continue to invest in technology to improve operating efficiency and ease of doing business for our distribution partners and customers. We believe that simplifying our operating models will enhance productivity and support further profitable growth. Manage our Balance Sheet through a rigorous approach to our products and portfolio. We match our product design and high quality investments with our asset and liability exposures to support our cash and liquidity needs under various operating scenarios. Deliver Value Creation and Manage Capital by striving to deliver solid earnings and returns on capital through disciplined pricing, sustainable underwriting improvements, expense efficiency, and diversification of risk, while optimizing capital allocation and efficiency within insurance entities to enhance return on common equity . 98 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement COMPETITION and challenges Life and Retirement operates in the highly competitive insurance and financial services industry in the U.S. and select international markets, competing against various financial services companies, including banks and other life insurance and mutual fund companies. Competition is primarily based on product pricing and design, distribution, financial strength, customer service and ease of doing business. Our business remains competitive due to its long-standing market leading positions, innovative products, distribution relationships across multiple channels, customer-focused service and strong financial ratings. Our primary challenges include:  a sustained low interest rate environment, which makes it difficult to profitably price new products and puts margin pressure on existing business due to lower reinvestment yields;  increased competition in our primary markets, including aggressive pricing of annuities by private equity-backed annuity writers, increased competition and consolidation of employer groups in the group retirement planning market, and competitors with different profitability targets in the pension risk transfer space as well as other product lines;  increasingly complex new and proposed regulatory requirements, which have affected industry growth and costs;  upgrading our technology and underwriting processes while managing general operating expenses; and  decreased premiums and deposits and adverse mortality experience due to COVID-19. OUTLOOK–INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Below is a discussion of the industry and economic factors impacting our specific operating segments: The impact of COVID-19 is evolving and will ultimately depend upon the scope, severity and duration of the crisis as well as the actions taken by governments, legislative bodies or regulators and other third parties in response, as well as the distribution and effectiveness of vaccinations, all of which continue to be subject to significant uncertainty at this time. The results for 2020 include COVID-19 related impacts on a number of areas including but not limited to DAC/SIA amortization, mortality, reserves and investment returns. During 2020, we experienced significant decreases on our premiums and deposits primarily due to distribution channel disruptions related to COVID-19 and low interest rates. The regulatory approach to the crisis and impact on the insurance industry is continuing to evolve and its ultimate impact remains uncertain. On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. No decisions have yet been made regarding the structure of the initial disposition of up to a 19.9% interest in the Life and Retirement business. In addition, any separation transaction will be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including approval by the AIG Board of Directors, receipt of insurance and other required regulatory approvals, and satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the SEC. No assurance can be given regarding the form that a separation transaction may take or the specific terms or timing thereof, or that a separation will in fact occur. For additional information please see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Business and Operations – No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will occur or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, the separation could cause the emergence or exacerbate the effects of other risks to which AIG is exposed. Individual Retirement Increasing life expectancy and reduced expectations for traditional retirement income from defined benefit programs and fixed income securities are leading Americans to seek additional financial security as they approach retirement. The strong demand for individual index and fixed deferred annuities with guaranteed income features has attracted increased competition in this product space. In response to the continued low interest rate environment, which has added pressure to profit margins, we have developed guaranteed income benefits for variable, fixed index, and fixed deferred annuities with margins that are less sensitive to the level of interest rates. Changes in the capital markets (interest rate environment, equity markets, volatility) can have a significant impact on sales, surrender rates, investment returns, guaranteed income features, and net investment spreads in the annuity industry. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 99 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Group Retirement Group Retirement competes in the defined contribution market under the AIG Retirement Services brand. AIG Retirement Services is a leading retirement plan provider in the U.S. for K-12 schools and school districts, higher education, healthcare, government and other not-for-profit institutions. The defined contribution market is a highly efficient and competitive market that requires support for both plan sponsors and individual participants. T o meet this challenge, AIG Retirement Services is investing in a client-focused technology platform to support improved compliance and self-service functionality. AIG Retirement Services’ model pairs self-service tools with its career financial advisors who provide individual plan participants with enrollment support and comprehensive financial planning services. Changes in the interest rate and equity market environment can have a significant impact on investment returns, fee income, advisory and other income, guaranteed income features, and net investment spreads, and a moderate impact on sales and surrender rates. Life Insurance Consumers have a significant need for life insurance, whether it is used for income replacement for their surviving family, estate planning or wealth transfer. Additionally, consumers use life insurance to provide living benefits in case of chronic, critical or terminal illnesses, and to supplement retirement income. In response to consumer needs and a sustained low interest rate environment, our Life Insurance product portfolio will continue to promote products with lower long-duration interest rate risk and mitigate exposure to products that have long-duration interest rate risk through sales levels and hedging strategies. As life insurance ownership remains at historical lows in the U.S. and the UK, efforts to expand the reach and increase the affordability of life insurance are critical. The industry is investing in consumer-centric efforts to reduce traditional barriers to securing life protection by simplifying the sales and service experience. Digitally enabled processes and tools provide a fast, friendly and simple path to life insurance protection . Institutional Markets Institutional Markets serves a variety of needs for corporate clients. Demand is driven by a number of factors including the macroeconomic and regulatory environment. We expect to see continued growth in the pension risk transfer market (direct and assumed reinsurance) as corporate plan sponsors look to transfer asset or liability, longevity, administrative and operational risks associated with their defined benefit plans. Changes in the interest rate environment can have a significant impact on investment returns and net investment spreads, as well as reduce the tax efficiency associated with institutional life insurance products, dampening organic growth opportunities. For additional discussion of the impact of market interest rate movement on our Life and Retirement business see Executive Summary – AIG’s Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors – Impact of Changes in the Interest Rate Environment. life and retirement RESULTS * Includes general operating expenses, non-deferrable commissions, other acquisition expenses, advisory fee expenses and other expenses. 100 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement For information on the impact of actuarial assumptions on our Life and Retirement results, see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Reserves and DAC - Update of Actuarial Assumptions by Business Segment. Our insurance companies generate significant revenues from investment activities. As a result, the operating segments in Life and Retirement are subject to variances in net investment income on the asset portfolios that support insurance liabilities and surplus. For additional information on our investment strategy, asset-liability management process and invested asset composition see Investments. Individual Retirement Results * Includes returns from base portfolio including accretion and income (loss) from certain other invested assets. Business and Financial Highlights The market environment continues to reflect uncertainties in the annuity business resulting from a sustained low interest rate environment as well as the COVID-19 crisis. Interest rates declined in 2020 and remain at or near historical lows. Premiums and deposits decreased in 2020 compared to the prior year. Net flows decreased in 2020 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower sales in fixed and index annuities and lower Retail Mutual Fund sales, partially offset by lower surrenders and withdrawals. Excluding prior year deposits from FHLB funding agreements, premiums and deposits increased in 2019 compared to 2018. Net flows in 2019 remained negative but improved compared to 2018 primarily due to higher deposits driven by increased fixed and index annuities sales, offset by lower sales for the variable annuities and Retail Mutual Funds. Adjusted pre-tax income decreased in 2020 compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower base net investment yield driven by lower interest rates resulting in spread compression, lower gains on securities for which the fair value option was elected, a higher net unfavorable adjustment from the review and update of actuarial assumptions, in addition to DAC and reserve model adjustments compared to the prior year. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher private equity income, higher call and tender income and lower general operating expenses. Adjusted pre-tax income increased in 2019 compared to 2018, primarily driven by decreases in Variable Annuity DAC amortization and reserves due to stronger equity market performances, growth in income from base portfolio due to higher invested assets, higher gains on securities for which the fair value option was elected, and prior year DAC and reserve model adjustments. Partially offsetting these increases were lower Variable Annuity policy and advisory fee income, net of expenses due to Variable Annuity and Retail Mutual Fund negative net flows. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 101 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement 102 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Individual Retirement GAAP Premiums, Premiums and Deposits, Surrenders and Net Flows For Individual Retirement, premiums primarily represent amounts received on life-contingent payout annuities. Premiums increased in 2020 compared to 2019 and 2018. Premiums are generally not a significant driver of Individual Retirement results. Premiums and deposits is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes, in addition to direct and assumed premiums, deposits received on investment-type annuity contracts, FHLB funding agreements and mutual funds under administration. Net flows for annuity products in Individual Retirement represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender and other withdrawal benefits. Net flows for mutual funds represent deposits less withdrawals. Deposits from FHLB funding agreement are excluded from net flows of Individual Retirement in 2018, as net flows from this funding agreement is not considered part of the metric to measure Individual Retirement’s core recurring performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of Individual Retirement GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits: The following table presents surrenders as a percentage of average reserves: The following table presents reserves for fixed annuities and variable and index annuities by surrender charge category: Individual Retirement annuities are typically subject to a four- to seven-year surrender charge period, depending on the product. For fixed annuities, the proportion of reserves subject to surrender charge at December 31, 2020 was flat compared to December 31, 2019. The increase in reserves with no surrender charge for variable and index annuities at December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019 was principally due to normal aging of business. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 103 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement A discussion of the significant variances in premiums and deposits and net flows for each product line follows: 104 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Group Retirement Results * Includes returns from base portfolio including accretion and income (loss) from certain other invested assets. Business and Financial Highlights Group Retirement is focused on implementing initiatives to grow its business. However, external factors, including increased competition and the consolidation of healthcare providers and other employers in target markets, continue to impact Group Retirement’s customer retention. Premiums and deposits decreased in 2020 compared to the prior year. Net flows remained negative but improved in 2020 compared to the prior year primarily due to lower surrenders partially offset by lower deposits. Excluding deposits from FHLB funding agreement, premiums and deposits decreased in 2019 compared to 2018. Net flows remained negative but improved in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to lower surrenders partially offset by decreased deposits. Adjusted pre-tax income increased in 2020 compared to the prior year primarily due to a net favorable adjustment from the review and update of actuarial assumptions compared to a net unfavorable adjustment in the prior year, higher private equity income, higher yield enhancement income and higher policy and advisory fee income, net of expenses, due to an increase in separate account and mutual fund average assets. Partially offsetting these increases were lower gains on base net investment spread primarily due to lower reinvestment yields, lower gains on securities for which the fair value option was elected, higher general operating expenses and higher variable annuity DAC amortization and reserves due to equity market performance. Adjusted pre-tax income remained relatively flat in 2019 compared to 2018. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 105 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement 106 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Group Retirement GAAP Premiums, Premiums and Deposits, Surrenders and Net Flows For Group Retirement, premiums primarily represent amounts received on life-contingent payout annuities. Premiums in 2020, which primarily represents immediate annuities, increased compared to 2019 and decreased compared to 2018. Premiums are not a significant driver of Group Retirement results. Premiums and deposits is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes, in addition to direct and assumed premiums, deposits received on investment-type annuity contracts, FHLB funding agreements and mutual funds under administration. Net flows for annuity products included in Group Retirement represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender and other withdrawal benefits. Net flows for mutual funds represent deposits less withdrawals. Deposits from FHLB funding agreement was excluded from net flows of Group Retirement in 2018, as net flows from this funding agreement is not considered part of the metric to measure Group Retirement’s core recurring performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of Group Retirement GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits: The following table presents Group Retirement surrenders as a percentage of average reserves and mutual funds under administration: The following table presents reserves for Group Retirement annuities by surrender charge category: (a) Excludes mutual fund assets under administration of $25.0 billion and $21.7 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (b) Group Retirement amounts in this category include general account reserves of approximately $6.3 billion and $6.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 respectively, which are subject to 20 percent annual withdrawal limitations at the participant level and general account reserves of $5.8 billion and $5.4 billion at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, which are subject to 20 percent annual withdrawal limitations at the plan level. Group Retirement annuity deposits are typically subject to a five- to seven-year surrender charge period, depending on the product. At December 31, 2020, Group Retirement annuity reserves with no surrender charge increased compared to December 31, 2019 primarily due to growth in assets under management while reserves with a 0% - 2% surrender charge decreased primarily due to normal aging of business. The surrender rate in 2020 decreased compared to the prior year due to lower individual surrenders as well as fewer large plan surrenders. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 107 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement A discussion of the significant variances in premiums and deposits and net flows follows: 108 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Life Insurance Results Business and Financial Highlights Life Insurance is focused on selling profitable new products through strategic channels to enhance future returns. Adjusted pre-tax income decreased in 2020 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher mortality driven primarily by COVID-19 and a net unfavorable adjustment from the review and update of actuarial assumptions partially offset by higher net investment income. Adjusted pre-tax income decreased in 2019 compared to the prior year primarily due to prior year favorable actuarial adjustments to universal life and prior year favorable ceded premium reinsurance adjustments, unfavorable reinsurance valuation allowance adjustment in 2019 and less favorable mortality. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher gains on calls and higher net investment income including gains on alternative investments due to higher private equity income. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 109 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Life Insurance GAAP Premiums and Premiums and Deposits Premiums for Life Insurance represent amounts received on traditional life insurance policies, primarily term life and international life and health. Premiums, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, increased in 2020 compared to 2019 and 2018. Premiums for 2018 included favorable ceded premium reinsurance refinements in domestic life business. Premiums and deposits for Life Insurance is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes direct and assumed premiums as well as deposits received on universal life insurance. The following table presents a reconciliation of Life Insurance GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits: 110 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement A discussion of the significant variances in premiums and deposits follows: Institutional markets Results Business and Financial Highlights Institutional Markets continued to opportunistically grow its portfolio, which drove the increase in net investment income. Product distribution continues to be strong and the business is focused on maintaining pricing discipline. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 111 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement 112 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Institutional markets GAAP Premiums and Premiums and Deposits Premiums for Institutional Markets primarily represent amounts received on pension risk transfer or structured settlement annuities with life contingencies. Premiums increased in 2020 compared to the prior year primarily driven by the pension risk transfer business (direct and assumed reinsurance) written in 2020. Premiums increased in 2019 compared to the prior year primarily driven by the pension risk transfer business written in 2019. Premiums and deposits for Institutional Markets is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes direct premiums as well as deposits received on investment-type annuity contracts, including GICs. Deposits also include FHLB funding agreements. The following table presents a reconciliation of Institutional Markets GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits: A discussion of the significant variances in premiums and deposits follows: AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 113 ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Other Operations Other Operations Other Operations primarily consists of income from assets held by AIG Parent and other corporate subsidiaries, deferred tax assets related to tax attributes, corporate expenses and intercompany eliminations, our institutional asset management business and results of our consolidated investment entities, General Insurance portfolios in run-off previously reported within Legacy as well as the historical results of our legacy insurance lines ceded to Fortitude Re. Other Operations Results * Interest – Asset Management primarily represents interest expense on consolidated investment entities of $148 million, $158 million and $11 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 114 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Other Operations 2020 and 2019 Comparison Adjusted pre-tax loss increased primarily due to:  lower net investment income due to the deconsolidation of Fortitude Re on June 2, 2020; and  higher interest expenses driven by debt issuances in the second quarter of 2020. 2019 and 2018 Comparison Adjusted pre-tax loss increased primarily due to:  lower net investment income associated with available for sale securities, higher corporate general operating expenses due to higher compensation and technology costs; and  higher interest expenses driven by corporate debt issuances in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, and debt associated with consolidated investment entities. The increase in adjusted pre-tax loss was partially offset by:  higher net investment income associated with consolidated investment entities.  higher earnings on portfolios in run-off due to an increase in net investment income as a result of gains on fair value option securities and a decrease in policyholder benefits and losses incurred due to non-recurring loss recognition incurred on accident and health business (other than long-term care) in 2018. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 115 ITEM 7 | Investments Investments Overview Our investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit by targeting an asset allocation mix that supports estimated cash flows of our outstanding liabilities and provides diversification from an asset class, sector, issuer, and geographic perspective. The primary objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of fixed maturity securities. The impact of COVID-19 is evolving rapidly and will depend upon the scope, severity and duration of the crisis as well as the actions taken by governments, legislative bodies or regulators and other third parties in response, all of which are continuing to evolve and are subject to continuing uncertainty. Weak economic conditions resulting from COVID-19 have been met with intervention taken by governments and monetary authorities aimed at stimulating growth, resulting in a sharp recovery on our overall investment portfolio to pre-COVID-19 conditions. In certain segments of our diversified investment portfolio, there have been exposures to certain segments of the economy significantly affected by the crisis, which has, in certain periods, resulted in the recognition of credit losses and increases in our allowance for credit losses. Further recognition of credit losses and increases in our allowances for credit losses could result if businesses remain closed (or are closed again due to resurgences in infections) and the impact of the crisis on the global economy worsens. Investment Strategies Investment strategies are assessed at the segment level and involve considerations that include local and general market conditions, duration and cash flow management, risk appetite and volatility constraints, rating agency and regulatory capital considerations, and tax and legal investment limitations. Some of our key investment strategies are as follows:  Our fundamental strategy across the portfolios is to seek investments with similar characteristics to the associated insurance liabilities to the extent practicable. AIG embeds Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) considerations in its fundamental investment analysis of the companies or projects we invest in to ensure that they have sustainable earnings over the full term of our investment. AIG considers internal and external factors and evaluates changes in consumer behavior, industry trends related to ESG factors as well as the ability of the management of companies to respond appropriately to these changes in order to maintain their competitive advantage.  We seek to originate investments that offer enhanced yield through illiquidity premiums, such as private placements and commercial mortgage loans, which also add portfolio diversification. These assets typically afford credit protections through covenants, ability to customize structures that meet our insurance liability needs, and deeper due diligence given information access.  Given our global presence, we have access to assets that provide diversification from local markets. To the extent we purchase these investments, we generally hedge any currency risk using derivatives, which could provide opportunities to earn higher risk adjusted returns compared to assets in the functional currency. 116 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Investments  AIG Parent, included in Other Operations, actively manages its assets and liabilities, counterparties and duration. AIG Parent’s liquidity sources are held primarily in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities that can be readily monetized through sales or repurchase agreements. This strategy allows us to both diversify our sources of liquidity and reduce the cost of maintaining sufficient liquidity.  Within the U.S., the Life and Retirement and General Insurance investments are generally split between reserve backing and surplus portfolios. – Insurance reserves are backed by mainly investment grade fixed maturity securities that meet our duration, risk-return, tax, liquidity, credit quality and diversification objectives. We assess asset classes based on their fundamental underlying risk factors, including credit (public and private), commercial real estate and residential real estate regardless of whether such investments are bonds, loans, or structured products. – Surplus investments seek to enhance portfolio returns and are generally comprised of a mix of fixed maturity investment grade and below investment grade securities and various alternative asset classes, including private equity, real estate equity, and hedge funds. Over the past few years, hedge fund investments have been reduced with more emphasis given to private equity, real estate and below investment grade credit. Outside of the U.S., fixed maturity securities held by insurance companies consist primarily of investment-grade securities generally denominated in the currencies of the countries in which we operate. Asset Liability Management The investment strategy within the General Insurance companies focuses on growth of surplus, maintenance of sufficient liquidity for unanticipated insurance claims, and preservation of capital. General Insurance invests primarily in fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies; structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate; and commercial mortgage loans. Fixed maturity securities of the General Insurance companies’ North America operations have an average duration of 3.3 years. Fixed maturity securities of the General Insurance companies’ international operations have an average duration of 4.4 years. While invested assets backing reserves of the General Insurance companies are primarily invested in conventional liquid fixed maturity securities, we have continued to allocate to asset classes that offer higher yields through structural and illiquidity premiums, particularly in our North America operations. In addition, we continue to invest in both fixed rate and floating rate asset-backed investments to manage our exposure to potential changes in interest rates and inflation. We seek to diversify the portfolio across asset classes, sectors, and issuers to mitigate idiosyncratic portfolio risks. In addition, a portion of the surplus of General Insurance is invested in a diversified portfolio of alternative investments that seek to balance liquidity, volatility and growth of surplus. There is a higher allocation to equity-oriented investments in General Insurance surplus relative to other AIG portfolios given the underlying inflation risks inherent in that business. Although these alternative investments are subject to periodic earnings fluctuations, they have historically achieved yields in excess of the fixed maturity portfolio yields and have provided added diversification to the broader portfolio. The investment strategy of the Life and Retirement companies is to provide net investment income to back liabilities that result in stable distributable earnings and enhance portfolio value, subject to asset liability management, capital, liquidity, and regulatory constraints. The Life and Retirement companies use asset-liability management as a primary tool to monitor and manage risk in their businesses. The Life and Retirement companies maintain a diversified, high-to-medium quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies; structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate; and commercial mortgage loans that, to the extent practicable, match the duration characteristics of the liabilities. We seek to diversify the portfolio across asset classes, sectors, and issuers to mitigate idiosyncratic portfolio risks. The investment portfolio of each product line is tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, and as a result, duration varies between distinct portfolios. The interest rate environment has a direct impact on the asset liability management profile of the businesses, and an extended low interest rate environment may result in a lengthening of liability durations from initial estimates, primarily due to lower lapses, which may require us to further extend the duration of the investment portfolio. A further lengthening of the portfolio will be assessed in the context of available market opportunities as longer duration markets may not provide similar diversification benefits as shorter duration markets. Fixed maturity securities of the Life and Retirement companies’ domestic operations have an average duration of 8.8 years. In addition, the Life and Retirement companies seek to enhance surplus portfolio returns through investments in a diversified portfolio of alternative investments. Although these alternative investments are subject to periodic earnings fluctuations, they have historically achieved returns in excess of the fixed maturity portfolio returns. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 117 ITEM 7 | Investments NAIC Designations of Fixed Maturity Securities The Securities Valuation Office (SVO) of the NAIC evaluates the investments of U.S. insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called ‘NAIC Designations.’ In general, NAIC Designations of ‘1’ highest quality, or ‘2’ high quality, include fixed maturity securities considered investment grade, while NAIC Designations of ‘3’ through ‘6’ generally include fixed maturity securities referred to as below investment grade. NAIC designations for non-agency RMBS and CMBS are calculated using third party modeling results provided through the NAIC. These methodologies result in an improved NAIC Designation for such securities compared to the rating typically assigned by the three major rating agencies. The following tables summarize the ratings distribution of AIG subsidiaries’ fixed maturity security portfolio by NAIC Designation, and the distribution by composite AIG credit rating, which is generally based on ratings of the three major rating agencies. For a full description of the composite AIG credit ratings see – Credit Ratings . The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by NAIC Designation, at fair value: * Excludes $10.6 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available. The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by composite AIG credit rating, at fair value: * Excludes $10.6 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available. Credit Ratings At December 31, 2020, approximately 89 percent of our fixed maturity securities were held by our domestic entities. Approximately 88 percent of these securities were rated investment grade by one or more of the principal rating agencies. Our investment decision process relies primarily on internally generated fundamental analysis and internal risk ratings. Third-party rating services’ ratings and opinions provide one source of independent perspective for consideration in the internal analysis. Moody’s Investors Service Inc. (Moody’s), Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of S&P Global Inc. (S&P), or similar foreign rating services rate a significant portion of our foreign entities’ fixed maturity securities portfolio. Rating services are not available for some foreign-issued securities. Our Credit Risk Management department closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio’s non-rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2020, approximately 95 percent of such investments were either rated investment grade or, on the basis of our internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities rated investment grade. Approximately 27 percent of the foreign entities’ fixed maturity securities portfolio is comprised of sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting policy liabilities in the country of issuance. Composite AIG Credit Ratings With respect to our fixed maturity securities, the credit ratings in the table below and in subsequent tables reflect: (i) a composite of the ratings of the three major rating agencies, or when agency ratings are not available, the rating assigned by the NAIC SVO (99 percent of total fixed maturity securities), or (ii) our equivalent internal ratings when these investments have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies or the NAIC. The “Non-rated” category in those tables consists of fixed maturity securities that have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies, the NAIC or us. For a discussion of credit risks associated with Investments see Enterprise Risk Management. 118 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Investments The following table presents the composite AIG credit ratings of our fixed maturity securities calculated on the basis of their fair value: Available-for-Sale Investments The following table presents the fair value of our available-for-sale securities: * At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair value of bonds available for sale held by us that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $28.2 billion and $27.8 billion, respectively. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 119 ITEM 7 | Investments The following table presents the fair value of our aggregate credit exposures to non-U.S. governments for our fixed maturity securities: The following table presents the fair value of our aggregate European credit exposures by major sector for our fixed maturity securities: Investments in Municipal Bonds At December 31, 2020, the U.S. municipal bond portfolio was composed primarily of essential service revenue bonds and high-quality tax-exempt bonds with 92 percent of the portfolio rated A or higher. 120 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Investments The following table presents the fair values of our available for sale U.S. municipal bond portfolio by state and municipal bond type: (a) We did not have material credit exposure to the government of Puerto Rico. (b) Excludes certain university and not-for-profit entities that issue their bonds in the corporate debt market. Includes industrial revenue bonds. (c) Includes $527 million of pre-refunded municipal bonds. Investments in Corporate Debt Securities The following table presents the industry categories of our available for sale corporate debt securities: * At both December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, approximately 90 percent and 89 percent of these investments were rated investment grade. Our investments in the energy category, as a percentage of total investments in available-for-sale fixed maturities, were 4.9 percent and 5.3 percent at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. While the energy investments are primarily investment grade and are actively managed, the category continues to experience volatility that could adversely affect credit quality and fair value. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 121 ITEM 7 | Investments Investments in RMBS The following table presents AIG’s RMBS available for sale securities: (a) Includes approximately $7.6 billion and $8.7 billion at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, of certain RMBS that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their origination. For additional discussion on Purchased Credit Impaired Securities see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . (b) The weighted average expected life was five years at December 31, 2020 and six years at December 31 2019. Our underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset-backed securities (ABS) and CDOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction. Investments in CMBS The following table presents our CMBS available for sale securities: The fair value of CMBS holdings remained stable throughout 2020. The majority of our investments in CMBS are in tranches that contain substantial protection features through collateral subordination. The majority of CMBS holdings are traditional conduit transactions, broadly diversified across property types and geographical areas. Investments in ABS/CDOs The following table presents our ABS/CDO available for sale securities by collateral type: 122 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Investments Unrealized Losses of Fixed Maturity Securities The following table shows the aging of the unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities, the extent to which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost, and the number of respective items in each category: (a) Represents the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount. (b) Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than cost at December 31, 2020. (c) For bonds, represents amortized cost net of allowance. (d) The effect on Net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will result in current decreases in the amortization of certain DAC. (e) Item count is by CUSIP by subsidiary. The allowance for credit losses was $14 million for investment grade bonds, and $172 million for below investment grade bonds as of December 31, 2020. Change in Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments The change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments in 2020 was primarily attributable to increases in the fair value of fixed maturity securities. For 2020, net unrealized gains related to fixed maturity securities increased by $9.5 billion due primarily to lower rates partially offset by a widening of credit spreads. The change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments in 2019 was primarily attributable to increases in the fair value of fixed maturity securities. For 2019, net unrealized gains related to fixed maturity securities increased by $14.2 billion due primarily to a decrease in rates and a narrowing of credit spreads. For further discussion of our investment portfolio see also Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 123 ITEM 7 | Investments Commercial Mortgage Loans At December 31, 2020, we had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $36.4 billion. The following table presents the commercial mortgage loan exposure by location and class of loan based on amortized cost: * Does not reflect allowance for credit losses. For additional discussion on commercial mortgage loans see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 124 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Investments Net Realized Capital Gains and Losses The following table presents the components of Net realized capital gains (losses): (a) For 2019, Intent to sell was included in Other-than-temporary impairments. (b) In 2019, includes $200 million from the sale and concurrent leaseback of our corporate headquarters and $300 million as a result of sales in investment real estate properties. In 2018, primarily includes $96 million and $49 million of realized gains on the sale of shares of OneMain Holdings, Inc. and an investment in Castle Holdings LLC’s aircraft assets, respectively. (c) Represents activity subsequent to the deconsolidation of Fortitude Re on June 2, 2020. Net realized capital losses in 2020 compared to net realized capital gains in the prior year due primarily to higher derivative losses in the current period compared to the prior year. Net realized capital gains in 2019 compared to net realized capital losses in 2018 due to gains on the sales of securities and foreign exchange compared to losses on sales of securities and foreign exchange in 2018, as well as lower impairments in 2019 and losses on private equity sales in 2018. Partially offsetting these gains were derivative losses in 2019 compared to gains in 2018. Variable annuity embedded derivatives, net of related hedges, reflected gains in 2020 compared to losses in the prior year primarily due to changes in the non-performance or “own credit” risk adjustment used in the valuation of the variable annuities with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB) embedded derivative, which are not hedged as part of our economic hedging program. Net realized capital gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets primarily reflect increases in the valuation of the modified coinsurance and funds withheld assets. Increases in the valuation of these assets result in losses to AIG as the appreciation on the assets must under those reinsurance arrangements be transferred to Fortitude Re. For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs. For more information on the economic hedging target and the impact to pre-tax income of this program see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Reserves and DAC – Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results in this MD&A. For further discussion of our investment portfolio see also Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 125 ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Insurance Reserves Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (Loss Reserves) The following table presents the components of our gross and net loss reserves by segment and major lines of business (a) : (a) Includes net loss reserve discount of $725 million and $1.5 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively. For discussion of loss reserve discount see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) Other product lines and Unallocated loss adjustment expenses includes $3.8 billion within Gross liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense and Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense as of December 31, 2020, and $3.9 billion within the Gross liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense as of December 31, 2019, for the Fortitude Re reinsurance. Prior Year Development The following table summarizes incurred (favorable) unfavorable prior year development net of reinsurance by segment: * Includes the amortization attributed to the deferred gain at inception from the National Indemnity Company (NICO) adverse development reinsurance agreement of $211 million, $232 million and $233 million in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Consistent with our definition of APTI, the amount excludes the portion of (favorable)/unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk under the NICO reinsurance agreements of $(228) million, $(278) million and $834 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and related changes in amortization of the deferred gain of $25 million, $(13) million and $162 million over those same periods. 126 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Net Loss Development – 2020 During 2020, we recognized favorable prior year loss reserve development of $74 million. The development was primarily driven by: North America Favorable development on U.S. Workers’ Compensation business, both guaranteed cost business and large deductible, where we reacted to favorable loss trends in recent accident years; Favorable development from amortization of the deferred gain on the adverse development reinsurance agreement with NICO for accident years 2015 and prior;  Favorable development across the combination of primary and excess casualty coverages; Favorable development in Property, Specialty and other miscellaneous coverages; Unfavorable development in U.S. Financial Lines, notably D&O, Employment Practices Liability (EPLI), Mergers and Acquisitions, Cyber and Non-Medical Professional Errors & Omissions business where we reacted to increasing frequency and severity in recent accident years; Unfavorable development in Personal Lines where we reacted to adverse development in Homeowners and Umbrella. International  Unfavorable development on Financial Lines driven by low frequency and high severity seen in D&O, especially in UK/Europe and Australia;  Favorable development on Property and Special Risks globally driven by UK/Europe;  Favorable development on Europe and Japan Personal Insurance driven by favorable frequency and severity trends. Our analyses and conclusions about prior year reserves also help inform our judgments about the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratios we selected. For further details of prior year development by line of business, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of actuarial methods employed for major classes of business, see also Critical Accounting Estimates . The following tables summarize incurred (favorable) unfavorable prior year development net of reinsurance, by segment and major lines of business, and by accident year groupings: AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 127 ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Net Loss Development – 2019 During 2019, we recognized favorable prior year loss reserve development of $294 million. The development was primarily driven by: North America  Favorable development on 2017 Hurricanes and 2017 California wildfires subrogation recoverables in Commercial Property and Personal Lines;  Favorable development from amortization of the deferred gain on the adverse development reinsurance agreement with NICO for accident years 2015 and prior;  Favorable development on U.S. Workers’ Compensation business, both guaranteed cost business and large deductible and Defense Base Act business (covering government contractors serving at military bases overseas) where we reacted to favorable loss trends in recent accident years;  Unfavorable development in U.S. Financial Lines, notably D&O, Employment Practices Liability (EPLI) and Non-Medical Professional Errors & Omissions business where we reacted to increasing frequency and severity in recent accident years; and  Unfavorable development in Primary General Liability where we reacted to adverse frequency and severity trends especially in Construction. International  Favorable development on Europe Property and Special Risks, Europe and Japan Personal Insurance and Other product lines; and  Unfavorable development on European Casualty & Financial Lines, notably Commercial Auto, Employers Liability, Directors & Officers, and Financial Institutions business. Net Loss Development – 2018 During 2018, we recognized adverse prior year net loss reserve development of $362 million. This unfavorable development was primarily a result of the following:  Unfavorable development in U.S. Excess Casualty, driven by the combination of construction defect and construction wrap claims from accident year 2015 and prior where we reacted to significant increases in severity and longer claim reporting patterns, as well as higher than expected loss severity in accident years 2016 and 2017, which led to an increase in estimates for these accident years;  Unfavorable development in U.S. Financial Lines, primarily from D&O and EPLI policies covering Corporate and National Insureds as well as Private and Not-for-Profit insureds. This development was predominantly in accident years 2014-2017 and resulted largely from increases in severity as the frequency of class action lawsuits increased in those years.  Favorable development in U.S. Commercial Property and Specialty Lines due to reductions in our estimates for 2017 Catastrophes and favorable development from the attritional losses in Commercial Property and Specialty.  Unfavorable development in U.S. Personal Lines reflecting an increase in estimates in respect of the California wildfires and Hurricane Irma in 2017.  Adverse development in Financial Lines in Europe and other areas across the world that have seen increases in the frequency and severity of large losses.  We note that for certain categories of claims (e.g., construction defect claims and environmental claims) and for reinsurance recoverable, losses may sometimes be reclassified to an earlier or later accident year as more information about the date of occurrence becomes available to us. These reclassifications are shown as development in the respective years in the tables above. Significant Reinsurance Agreements In the first quarter of 2017, we entered into an adverse development reinsurance agreement with NICO, under which we transferred to NICO 80 percent of the reserve risk on substantially all of our U.S. Commercial long-tail exposures for accident years 2015 and prior. Under this agreement, we ceded to NICO 80 percent of the losses on subject business paid on or after January 1, 2016 in excess of $25 billion of net paid losses, up to an aggregate limit of $25 billion. We account for this transaction as retroactive reinsurance. This transaction resulted in a gain, which under GAAP retroactive reinsurance accounting is deferred and amortized into income over the settlement period. NICO created a collateral trust account as security for their claim payment obligations to us, into which they deposited the consideration paid under the agreement, and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has provided a parental guarantee to secure NICO’s obligations under the agreement. For a description of AIG’s catastrophe reinsurance protection for 2020, see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – General Insurance Companies’ Key Risks – Natural Catastrophe Risk. 128 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves The table below shows the calculation of the deferred gain on the adverse development reinsurance agreement as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, showing the effect of discounting of loss reserves and amortization of the deferred gain. a) For the period from inception to December 31, 2020, the accretion of discount and a reduction in effective interest rates was offset by changes in estimates of the amount and timing of future recoveries under the adverse development reinsurance agreement. (b) Excluded from our definition of APTI. The following table presents the rollforward of activity in the deferred gain from the adverse development reinsurance agreement: (a) Prior year reserve development ceded to NICO under the retroactive reinsurance agreement is deferred under GAAP. (b) Represents amortization of the deferred gain recognized in APTI. (c) Excluded from APTI and included in GAAP. The lines of business subject to this agreement have been the source of the majority of the prior year adverse development charges over the past several years. The agreement has resulted in lower capital charges for reserve risks at our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. In addition, net investment income declined as a result of lower invested assets. Fortitude Re was established during the first quarter of 2018 in a series of reinsurance transactions related to our Run-Off operations. Those reinsurance transactions were designed to consolidate most of our Insurance Run-Off Lines into a single legal entity. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $30.5 billion of reserves from our Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and approximately $4.1 billion of reserves from our General Insurance Run-Off Lines related to business written by multiple wholly-owned AIG subsidiaries, had been ceded to Fortitude Re under these reinsurance transactions. Of the Fortitude Re reinsurance agreements, the largest is the Amended and Restated Combination Coinsurance and Modified Coinsurance Agreement by and between our subsidiary AGL and Fortitude Re. Under this treaty, approximately $23.3 billion of AGL reserves as of December 31, 2020 were ceded to Fortitude Re representing a mix of life and annuity risks. Fortitude Re provides 100 percent reinsurance of the ceded risks. AGL continues to administer the policies, including handling claims, although it is anticipated that much of the administration will move to a Fortitude Re administrative subsidiary over time, subject to regulatory approvals being obtained and the satisfaction of other conditions. Until such time, Fortitude Re has certain rights to consult on and participate in such administration, and AGL retains the risk of collection of any third party reinsurance covering the ceded business. At effectiveness of the treaty, an amount equal to the aggregate ceded reserves was deposited by AGL into a modified coinsurance account of AGL to secure the obligations of Fortitude Re. Fortitude Re receives or makes quarterly payments that represent the net gain or loss under AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 129 ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves the treaty for the relevant quarter, including any net investment gain or loss on the assets in the modified coinsurance account. An AIG affiliate will serve as portfolio manager of assets in the modified coinsurance account for a minimum of three years after the June 2, 2020 closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale. For a summary of significant reinsurers see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Reinsurance Activities – Reinsurance Recoverable. LIFE AND ANNUITY FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS, POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT DEPOSITS and dac The following section provides discussion of life and annuity future policy benefits, policyholder contract deposits and deferred policy acquisition costs. Update of Actuarial Assumptions The life insurance companies review and update actuarial assumptions at least annually, generally in the third quarter. Assumption setting standards vary between investment-oriented products and traditional long-duration products. Investment-oriented products The life insurance companies review and update estimated gross profit assumptions used to amortize DAC and related items (which may include VOBA, SIA and unearned revenue reserves) as well as assessments used to accrue guaranteed benefit reserves for investment-oriented products at least annually. Estimated gross profit projections include assumptions for investment-related returns and spreads, product-related fees and expenses, mortality gains and losses, policyholder behavior and other factors. In estimating future gross profits, lapse assumptions require judgment and can have a material impact on DAC amortization. If the assumptions used for estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC and related reserves are recalculated using the new projections, and any resulting adjustment is included in income. Updating such projections may result in acceleration of amortization in some products and deceleration of amortization in other products. The life insurance companies also review assumptions related to their respective GMWB living benefits that are accounted for as embedded derivatives and measured at fair value. The fair value of these embedded derivatives is based on actuarial assumptions, including policyholder behavior, as well as capital market assumptions. Various assumptions were updated, including the following effective September 30, 2020: • We decreased our reversion to the mean rates of return (gross of fees) to 3.12 percent from 3.62 percent for the variable annuity product line in Individual Retirement and to 2.87 percent from 3.29 percent for the variable annuity product line in Group Retirement primarily due to recent equity market movements. Our separate account long-term asset growth rate assumption related to equity market performance remained unchanged at 7.0 percent; and • Ultimate projected yields on the vast majority of our invested assets were lowered on life and annuity deposits. Life deposit projected yields ranged from an increase of 9 basis points to a decrease of 14 basis points while annuity insurance deposits saw decreases of up to 24 basis points. Projected yields are graded from a weighted average net GAAP book yield of existing assets supporting the business based on the value of the assets to a weighted average yield based on the duration of the assets excluding assets that mature during the grading period. The grading period is three years for deferred annuity products and five years for life insurance products due to deferred annuities having a shorter duration than life products. Traditional long-duration products For long-duration traditional products discussed below, which include whole life insurance, term life insurance, accident and health insurance, long-term care insurance, and life-contingent single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements, a “lock-in” principle applies. The assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience, unless a loss recognition event occurs. A loss recognition event occurs when current liabilities together with expected future premiums are not sufficient to provide for all future benefits, expenses, and DAC amortization, net of reinsurance. A loss recognition event is driven by observed changes in actual experience or estimates differing significantly from “locked-in” assumptions. Underlying assumptions, including interest rates, are reviewed periodically and updated as appropriate for loss recognition testing purposes. As a result of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, all business that is in loss recognition is fully reinsured by an unaffiliated entity. The net increases (decreases) to pre-tax income and adjusted pre-tax income as a result of the update of actuarial assumptions for 2020, 2019 and 2018 are shown in the following tables. 130 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves The following table presents the decrease in pre-tax income resulting from the third quarter update of actuarial assumptions in the life insurance companies, by line item as reported in Results of Operations: The following table presents the increase (decrease) in adjusted pre-tax income resulting from the third quarter update of actuarial assumptions for the life insurance companies, by segment and product line: In 2020, adjusted pre-tax income included a net unfavorable adjustment of $107 million, primarily in fixed annuities driven by changes to earned rates causing spread compression partially offset by favorable updates to full surrender assumptions, and in Life Insurance primarily due to mortality modeling enhancements. In 2019, adjusted pre-tax income included a net unfavorable adjustment of $173 million, primarily in index annuities driven by an update to lapse assumptions, and in Life Insurance primarily due to methodology enhancements related to projected premium, certain riders and death benefit features, and reinsurance reserving. The unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by favorable updates to full surrender assumptions in Individual Retirement fixed annuities. In 2018, adjusted pre-tax income included a net unfavorable adjustment of $208 million, primarily in variable annuities driven by reductions to the GMWB full surrender assumption, in Life Insurance primarily due to strengthening of reserves for certain riders and interest crediting model refinements, and in Legacy Accident & Health Insurance loss recognition. The unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by favorable adjustments in Life Insurance primarily due to lower lapse and mortality assumptions and a reduction in IBNR reserves and in Individual Retirement due to lower lapse assumptions in fixed annuities and refinements to partial withdrawal assumptions in variable annuities. The adjustments related to the update of actuarial assumptions in each period are discussed by business segment below. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 131 ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Update of Actuarial Assumptions by Business Segment Individual Retirement The update of actuarial assumptions resulted in net favorable (unfavorable) adjustments to adjusted pre-tax income of Individual Retirement of $(75) million, $(63) million and $(52) million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In fixed annuities, the update of estimated gross profit assumptions resulted in a net unfavorable adjustment of $(77) million, which reflected lower projected investment earnings, partially offset by lower assumed lapses. In 2019 and 2018, net favorable adjustments of $82 million and $40 million, respectively, reflected lower lapse assumptions including the economic impact to competitor rate on the interest sensitive lapse component, partially offset by lower interest spread assumptions. In variable and index annuities, the update of estimated gross profit assumptions resulted in a net favorable adjustment of $2 million in 2020, driven by updated withdrawal benefit utilization assumptions. These adjustments were partially offset by lower projected investment earnings. In 2019, a net unfavorable adjustment of $145 million, primarily due to lapse updates in index annuities and updated general account earned rates on variable annuities. The unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by updated lapse assumptions in variable annuities. In 2018, a net unfavorable adjustment of $92 million primarily due to refinements to the guaranteed benefit partial withdrawal assumptions in variable annuities and the multi-year index strategy crediting parameters in index annuities. The unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by lower guaranteed benefit lapse assumptions in variable annuities. Group Retirement In Group Retirement, the update of estimated gross profit assumptions resulted in a favorable adjustment of $68 million in 2020, primarily in the variable annuities line from extending the DAC amortization projection period, partially offset by updates to expense and lapse assumptions. The DAC amortization projection period was extended to reflect business still in-force at the end of the previous projection period, resulting in an increase in modeled future profits and an increase in the current DAC balance. In 2019, Group Retirement recorded an unfavorable adjustment of $17 million, primarily due to lapse updates in index annuities and variable annuities. In 2018, a favorable adjustment of $17 million was primarily due to improved premium persistency assumptions. Life Insurance In Life Insurance, the update of actuarial assumptions resulted in a net unfavorable adjustment of $101 million in 2020, primarily driven by updates to Universal Life mortality assumptions. The mortality updates better align the assumptions with experience and reduce future profits which increases the reserves for affected products. The unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by refinements to reserve modeling. In 2019, a net unfavorable adjustment of $64 million was primarily due to methodology enhancements related to projected premium, certain riders and death benefit features, and reinsurance reserving. The unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by favorable adjustments driven by updates to mortality assumptions. In 2018, a net unfavorable adjustment of $67 million primarily due to additional reserves for certain riders, decreased lapses and interest crediting model refinements. The unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by favorable adjustments driven by updates to mortality assumptions and a reduction to IBNR reserves. Other Operations In Other Operations Run-Off, the update of actuarial assumptions resulted in a net unfavorable adjustment of $29 million in 2019, reflecting updates to loss recognition reserves and methodology enhancements for universal life insurance. In 2018, a net unfavorable adjustment of $106 million was primarily due to $105 million of loss recognition expense on accident and health business (other than long-term care) in the Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines resulting from assumption and model refinements. As of closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale on June 2, 2020, the reinsurance transactions with Fortitude Re are no longer considered affiliated transactions, and, therefore the results are fully ceded to Fortitude Re. 132 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results Our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement businesses offer variable annuity products with GMWB riders that provide guaranteed living benefit features. The liabilities for GMWB are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value. The fair value of the embedded derivatives may fluctuate significantly based on market interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads, market volatility, policyholder behavior and other factors. In addition to risk-mitigating features in our variable annuity product design, we have an economic hedging program designed to manage market risk from GMWB, including exposures to changes in interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and volatility. The hedging program utilizes derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts and interest rate swap and swaption contracts, as well as fixed maturity securities with a fair value election. For additional discussion of market risk management related to these product features see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs . Differences in Valuation of Embedded Derivatives and Economic Hedge Target The variable annuity hedging program utilizes an economic hedge target, which represents an estimate of the underlying economic risks in our GMWB riders. The economic hedge target differs from the GAAP valuation of the GMWB embedded derivatives primarily due to the following:  The economic hedge target includes 100 percent of rider fees in present value calculations; the GAAP valuation reflects only those fees attributed to the embedded derivative such that the initial value at contract issue equals zero;  The economic hedge target uses best estimate actuarial assumptions and excludes explicit risk margins used for GAAP valuation, such as margins for policyholder behavior, mortality, and volatility; and  The economic hedge target excludes the non-performance or “own credit” risk adjustment used in the GAAP valuation, which reflects a market participant’s view of our claims-paying ability by incorporating a different spread (the NPA spread) to the curve used to discount projected benefit cash flows. Because the discount rate includes the NPA spread and other explicit risk margins, the GAAP valuation is generally less sensitive to movements in interest rates and other market factors, and to changes from actuarial assumption updates, than the economic hedge target. For more information on our valuation methodology for embedded derivatives within policyholder contract deposits see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The market value of the hedge portfolio compared to the economic hedge target at any point in time may be different and is not expected to be fully offsetting. In addition to the derivatives held in conjunction with the variable annuity hedging program, the Life and Retirement companies have cash and invested assets available to cover future claims payable under these guarantees. The primary sources of difference between the change in the fair value of the hedging portfolio and the economic hedge target include:  Basis risk due to the variance between expected and actual fund returns, which may be either positive or negative;  Realized volatility versus implied volatility;  Actual versus expected changes in the hedge target driven by assumptions not subject to hedging, particularly policyholder behavior; and  Risk exposures that we have elected not to explicitly or fully hedge. The following table presents a reconciliation between the fair value of the GAAP embedded derivatives and the value of our economic hedge target: AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 133 ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Impact on Pre-tax Income (Loss) The impact on our pre-tax income (loss) of the variable annuity guaranteed living benefits and related hedging results includes changes in the fair value of the GMWB embedded derivatives, and changes in the fair value of related derivative hedging instruments, both of which are recorded in Other realized capital gains (losses). Realized capital gains (losses), as well as net investment income from changes in the fair value of fixed maturity securities used in the hedging program, are excluded from adjusted pre-tax income of Individual Retirement and Group Retirement. The change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives and the change in the value of the hedging portfolio are not expected to be fully offsetting, primarily due to the differences in valuation between the economic hedge target, the GAAP embedded derivatives and the fair value of the hedging portfolio, as discussed above. When corporate credit spreads widen, the change in the NPA spread generally reduces the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities, resulting in a gain, and when corporate credit spreads narrow or tighten, the change in the NPA spread generally increases the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities, resulting in a loss. In addition to changes driven by credit market-related movements in the NPA spread, the NPA balance also reflects changes in business activity and in the net amount at risk from the underlying guaranteed living benefits. The following table presents the net increase (decrease) to consolidated pre-tax income (loss) from changes in the fair value of the GMWB embedded derivatives and related hedges, excluding related DAC amortization: * Beginning in July 2019, the fixed maturity securities portfolio used in the hedging program was rebalanced to reposition the portfolio from a duration, sector, and issuer perspective. As part of this rebalancing, fixed maturity securities where we elected the fair value option were sold. Later in the quarter, as new fixed maturity securities were purchased, they were classified as available for sale. The change in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity securities recognized as a component of other comprehensive income was $217 million and $57 million for 2020 and 2019, respectively. The net impact on pre-tax income of $210 million from the GMWB embedded derivatives and related hedges in 2020 (excluding related DAC amortization) was driven by the widening of NPA credit spreads, impact of lower interest rates that resulted in NPA volume gains from higher expected GMWB payments, gains from higher equity markets, and gains from the review and update of actuarial assumptions, partially offset by the impact of lower interest rates on the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives excluding NPA, net of the hedging portfolio. In 2019, the net impact on pre-tax loss of $100 million was driven by tightening of credit spreads on the NPA spread, and impact of lower interest rates on the change in the fair value of embedded derivatives excluding NPA, net of the hedging portfolio, offset by impact of lower interest rates that resulted in NPA volume gains from higher expected GMWB payments, and gains from the review and update of actuarial assumptions. In 2018, the net impact on pre-tax income of $150 million was primarily driven by gains from the impact of widening credit spreads on the NPA spread, and the impact of higher interest rates on the change in fair value of embedded derivatives excluding NPA, and gains from the review and update of actuarial assumptions, partially offset by lower equity markets, net of the hedging portfolio. 134 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves The change in the fair value of the GMWB embedded derivatives, excluding NPA and update of actuarial assumptions, in 2020 reflected losses from decreases in interest rates, partially offset by gains from higher equity markets. In 2019, the change in the fair value of the GMWB embedded derivatives, excluding NPA and update of actuarial assumptions, reflected losses from decreases in interest rates, partially offset by gains from higher equity markets. In 2018, the change in the fair value of the GMWB embedded derivatives, excluding NPA and update of actuarial assumptions, reflected losses from lower equity markets and the impact of moving from an economic to a GAAP discount basis, offset by increases in interest rates. Fair value gains or losses in the hedging portfolio are typically not fully offset by increases or decreases in liabilities on a GAAP basis, due to the NPA and other risk margins used for GAAP valuation that cause the embedded derivatives to be less sensitive to changes in market rates than the hedge portfolio. On an economic basis, the changes in the fair value of the hedge portfolio were partially offset by the increase in the economic hedge target, as discussed below. In 2020, we estimated a net mark to market gain of approximately $295 million from our hedging activities related to our economic hedge target primarily driven by gains from higher equity markets and gains from the review and update of actuarial assumptions offset by tightening credit spreads. In 2019, we estimated a net mark to market gain of approximately $261 million from our hedging activities related to our economic hedge target primarily driven by gains from the review and update of actuarial assumptions and modeling refinements, offset by tightening credit spreads. In 2018, we estimated a net mark to market gain of approximately $334 million from our hedging activities related to our economic hedge target primarily driven by gains from the widening of credit spreads. Change in Economic Hedge Target The increase in the economic hedge target liability in 2020 was primarily due to lower interest rates and tighter credit spreads, offset by benefits from the review and update of assumptions and higher equity markets. The decrease in the economic hedge target liability in 2019 was primarily due to higher equity markets and gains from the review and update of actuarial assumptions offset by lower interest rates and tighter credit spreads. The decrease in the economic hedge target liability in 2018 was primarily due to higher interest rates and wider credit spreads, offset by lower equity markets. Change in Fair Value of the Hedging Portfolio The changes in the fair value of the economic hedge target and, to a lesser extent, the embedded derivative valuation under GAAP, were offset in part by the following changes in the fair value of the variable annuity hedging portfolio:  Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative contracts, which included swaps, swaptions and futures, resulted in gains driven by lower interest rates in 2020 and 2019. The net losses in 2018 reflected the impact of increases in interest rates, and widening of credit spreads.  Changes in the fair value of equity derivative contracts, which included futures and options, resulted in losses in 2020 and 2019 and gains in 2018, and varied based on the relative change in equity market returns in the respective periods.  Changes in the fair value of fixed maturity securities, primarily corporate bonds, are used as a capital-efficient way to economically hedge interest rate and credit spread-related risk. Beginning in July 2019, the change in the fair value of available-for-sale hedging bonds is reported as a component of comprehensive income in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). Prior to July 2019, the change in the fair value of the hedging bonds, which was excluded from the adjusted pre-tax income of the Individual Retirement and Group Retirement segments, was reported in net investment income on the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). The change in the fair value of the corporate bond hedging program in 2020 reflected gains due to decreases in interest rates, and tightening credit spreads. The gains in 2019 reflected the impact of decreases in interest rates, and tightening credit spreads. The losses in 2018 reflected the impact of increases in interest rates, and widening of credit spreads. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 135 ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves DAC The following table summarizes the major components of the changes in DAC, including VOBA, within the Life and Retirement companies: (a) DAC balance excluding the amount related to unrealized depreciation (appreciation) of investments was $10.5 billion, $10.1 billion and $9.6 billion at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (b) As of closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale on June 2, 2020, these DAC balances were deemed to be not recoverable and were written off. The net adjustments to DAC amortization from the update of actuarial assumptions for estimated gross profits, including those reported within change in DAC related to net realized capital gains (losses), represented two percent, two percent and four percent of the DAC balance excluding the amount related to unrealized depreciation (appreciation) of investments as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Reversion to the Mean The reversion to the mean rate is updated quarterly based on market returns and can change dramatically in periods where market returns move significantly. For December 31, 2020 compared to September 30, 2020, we decreased our reversion to the mean rates of return (gross of fees) to 1.66 percent from 3.12 percent for the variable annuity product line in Individual Retirement, and to 0.55 percent from 2.87 percent for the variable annuity product line in Group Retirement, primarily due to recent equity market movements. The five-year reversion to the mean period did not meet the criteria for adjustment in 2020 which would have otherwise required a reset of the start date used in the calculation of the average gross long-term return rate. The long-term growth assumption used in our reversion to the mean methodology remained unchanged at 7.0 percent in 2020, 2019 and 2018. For additional discussion of assumptions related to our reversion to the mean methodology see Critical Accounting Estimates – Estimated Gross Profits for Investment-Oriented Products. DAC and Reserves Related to Unrealized Appreciation of Investments DAC and Reserves for universal life and investment-oriented products are adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the change in DAC, unearned revenue, and benefit reserves with an offset to Other comprehensive income (OCI) as if securities available for sale had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields (shadow Investment-Oriented Adjustments). Similarly, for long-duration traditional products, significant unrealized appreciation of investments in a sustained low interest rate environment may cause additional future policy benefit liabilities with an offset to OCI to be recorded. Shadow adjustments to DAC and unearned revenue generally move in the opposite direction of the change in unrealized appreciation of the available for sale securities portfolio, reducing the reported DAC and unearned revenue balance when market interest rates decline. Conversely, shadow adjustments to benefit reserves generally move in the same direction as the change in unrealized appreciation of the available for sale securities portfolio, increasing reported future policy benefit liabilities balance when market interest rates decline. 136 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Market conditions in 2020 drove an $8.7 billion increase in the unrealized appreciation of fixed maturity securities held to support businesses in the Life and Retirement companies at December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019. At December 31, 2020, the shadow Investment-Oriented Adjustments reflected decreases in amortized balances including DAC and Unearned Revenue Reserves, while accrued liabilities such as policyholder benefit liabilities increased compared to December 31, 2019. Accrued shadow loss recognition reserves decreased from December 31, 2019, primarily due to the discontinuation of recognizing shadow loss recognition reserves related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets. Although these assets remain on AIG’s balance sheet, subsequent to the June 2, 2020 deconsolidation of Fortitude Re, AIG is no longer exposed to the returns on these assets and corresponding shadow adjustments because the assets economically belong to Fortitude Re as a result of the funds withheld arrangements with Fortitude Holdings. For further discussion on the sale of Fortitude Holdings see Consolidated Results of Operation. Reserves The following table presents a rollforward of insurance reserves by operating segments for Life and Retirement, including future policy benefits, policyholder contract deposits, other policyholder funds, and separate account liabilities, as well as Retail Mutual Funds and Group Retirement mutual fund assets under administration: AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 137 ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves * Excludes amortization of deferred sales inducements. Insurance reserves, as well as Retail Mutual Funds and Group Retirement mutual fund assets under administration, were comprised of the following balances: * Excludes unearned revenue liability. 138 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview Liquidity refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet our payment obligations. It is defined as cash and unencumbered assets that can be monetized in a short period of time at a reasonable cost. We endeavor to manage our liquidity prudently through various risk committees, policies and procedures, and a stress testing and liquidity risk framework established by our Treasury group with oversight by Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). Our liquidity risk framework is designed to manage liquidity at both AIG Parent and its subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations for a minimum of six months under a liquidity stress scenario. See Enterprise Risk Management – Risk Appetite, Limits, Identification and Measurement and Enterprise Risk Management – Liquidity Risk Management below for additional information. Capital refers to the long-term financial resources available to support the operation of our businesses, fund business growth, and cover financial and operational needs that arise from adverse circumstances. Our primary source of ongoing capital generation is derived from the profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. We must comply with numerous constraints on our minimum capital positions. These constraints drive the requirements for capital adequacy at AIG and the individual businesses and are based on internally-defined risk tolerances, regulatory requirements, rating agency and creditor expectations and business needs. Actual capital levels are monitored on a regular basis, and using ERM’s stress testing methodology, we evaluate the capital impact of potential macroeconomic, financial and insurance stresses in relation to the relevant capital constraints of both AIG and our insurance subsidiaries. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy future requirements and meet our obligations to policyholders, customers, creditors and debt-holders, including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events. Nevertheless, some circumstances may cause our cash or capital needs to exceed projected liquidity or readily deployable capital resources. Additional collateral calls, deterioration in investment portfolios or reserve strengthening affecting statutory surplus, higher surrenders of annuities and other policies, downgrades in credit ratings, catastrophic losses or fluctuations in the capital markets generally may result in significant additional cash or capital needs and loss of sources of liquidity and capital. Other potential events that could cause a liquidity strain include an economic collapse of a nation or region significant to our operations, nationalization, catastrophic terrorist acts, pandemics or other events causing economic or political upheaval. In addition, regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. For a discussion regarding risks associated with COVID-19, see Part I. Item 1A. – Risk Factors – COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto. Depending on market conditions, regulatory and rating agency considerations and other factors, we may take various liability and capital management actions. Liability management actions may include, but are not limited to, repurchasing or redeeming outstanding debt, issuing new debt or engaging in debt exchange offers. Capital management actions may include, but are not limited to, issuing preferred stock, paying dividends to our shareholders on the AIG Common Stock, paying dividends to the holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, and repurchases of AIG Common Stock. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 139 ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources 140 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources (a) In January 2021, we received aggregate proceeds of approximately $92 million in connection with warrant exercises that occurred prior to the expiration of warrants to purchase shares of AIG Common Stock on January 19, 2021. Pursuant to an Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan, in January 2021, we repurchased approximately $92 million of shares of AIG Common Stock with proceeds received from warrant exercises. As of February 18, 2021, approximately $1.4 billion remained under our share repurchase authorization. (b) On February 1, 2020, AIG redeemed all of its outstanding 3.300% Notes Due 2021 (the Notes), for a redemption price of 100 percent of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. As of December 31, 2020, $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of the Notes were outstanding. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 141 ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash The following table presents selected data from AIG's Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: The following table presents a summary of AIG’s Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: 142 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Cash Flow Activities Insurance companies generally receive most premiums in advance of the payment of claims or policy benefits. The ability of insurance companies to generate positive cash flow is affected by the frequency and severity of losses under their insurance policies, policy retention rates and operating expenses. Interest payments totaled $1.1 billion in 2020 compared to $1.3 billion in 2019 and $1.3 billion in 2018. Excluding interest payments, AIG had operating cash inflows of $2.1 billion in 2020 compared to operating cash outflows of $481 million in 2019 and operating cash inflows of $918 million in 2018. Investing Cash Flow Activities Net cash used in investing activities in 2020 was $6.2 billion compared to net cash used in investing activities of $5.5 billion in 2019 and $0.2 billion in 2018. Net cash used in investing activities in 2018 included our acquisition of Validus for approximately $5.5 billion in cash. Financing Cash Flow Activities Net cash provided by financing activities in 2020 reflected: • approximately $1.1 billion in the aggregate to pay a dividend of $0.32 per share on AIG Common Stock in each quarter of 2020; • approximately $29 million in the aggregate to pay a dividend of $365.625 per share on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock in each quarter of 2020; • $500 million to repurchase approximately 12 million shares of AIG Common Stock; • approximately $2.3 billion in net inflows from the issuance and repayment of long-term debt; and • approximately $655 million in net outflows from the issuance and repayment of debt of consolidated investment entities. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2019 reflected: • approximately $1.1 billion in the aggregate to pay a dividend of $0.32 per share on AIG Common Stock in each quarter of 2019; • approximately $22 million to pay a dividend of $369.6875 per share, $365.625 per share and $365.625 per share on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2019, respectively; • approximately $770 million in net outflows from the issuance and repayment of long-term debt; • approximately $1.4 billion in net inflows from the issuance and repayment of debt of consolidated investment entities; and • approximately $485 million inflow from the issuance of preferred stock. Net cash used in financing activities in 2018 reflected: • approximately $1.1 billion in the aggregate to pay a dividend of $0.32 per share on AIG Common Stock in each quarter of 2018; • approximately $1.7 billion to repurchase approximately 36.5 million shares of AIG Common Stock; • approximately $387 million in net outflows from the issuance and repayment of long-term debt; and • approximately $1.4 billion in net inflows from the issuance and repayment of debt of consolidated investment entities. Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries AIG Parent As of December 31, 2020, AIG Parent had approximately $15.0 billion in liquidity sources. AIG Parent’s liquidity sources are primarily held in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities and also include a committed, revolving syndicated credit facility. Fixed maturity securities primarily include U.S. government and government sponsored entity securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, corporate and municipal bonds and certain other highly rated securities. AIG Parent actively manages its assets and liabilities in terms of products, counterparties and duration. Based upon an assessment of funding needs, the liquidity sources can be readily monetized through sales or repurchase agreements or contributed as admitted assets to regulated insurance companies. AIG Parent liquidity is monitored through the use of various internal liquidity risk measures. AIG Parent’s primary sources of liquidity are dividends, distributions, loans and other payments from subsidiaries and credit facilities. AIG Parent’s primary uses of liquidity are for debt service, capital and liability management, and operating expenses. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 143 ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy our reasonably foreseeable future requirements and meet our obligations to our creditors, debt-holders and insurance company subsidiaries. We expect to access the debt and preferred equity markets from time to time to meet funding requirements as needed. We utilize our capital resources to support our businesses, with the majority of capital allocated to our insurance operations. Should we have or generate more capital than is needed to support our business strategies (including organic growth or acquisition opportunities) or mitigate risks inherent to our business, we may develop plans to distribute such capital to shareholders via dividends or AIG Common Stock repurchase authorizations or deploy such capital towards liability management. In the normal course, it is expected that a portion of the capital released by our insurance operations, by our other operations or through the utilization of AIG’s deferred tax assets may be available to support our business strategies, for distribution to shareholders or for liability management. In developing plans to distribute capital, AIG considers a number of factors, including, but not limited to: AIG’s business and strategic plans, expectations for capital generation and utilization, AIG’s funding capacity and capital resources in comparison to internal benchmarks, as well as rating agency expectations, regulatory standards and internal stress tests for capital. The following table presents AIG Parent's liquidity sources: (a) Cash and short-term investments include reverse repurchase agreements totaling $5.4 billion and $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (b) Unencumbered securities consist of publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities. Fixed maturity securities primarily include U.S. government and government sponsored entity securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, corporate and municipal bonds and certain other highly rated securities. (c) For additional information relating to this committed, syndicated credit facility see – Credit Facilities below. Insurance Companies We expect that our insurance companies will be able to continue to satisfy reasonably foreseeable future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations, including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, monetization of invested assets. Our insurance companies’ liquidity resources are primarily held in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities. Each of our material insurance companies’ liquidity is monitored through various internal liquidity risk measures. The primary sources of liquidity are premiums, fees, reinsurance recoverables and investment income and maturities. The primary uses of liquidity are paid losses, reinsurance payments, benefit claims, surrenders, withdrawals, interest payments, dividends, expenses, investment purchases and collateral requirements. Our General Insurance companies may require additional funding to meet capital or liquidity needs under certain circumstances. Large catastrophes may require us to provide additional support to our affected operations. Downgrades in our credit ratings could put pressure on the insurer financial strength ratings of our subsidiaries, which could result in non-renewals or cancellations by policyholders and adversely affect a subsidiary’s ability to meet its own obligations. Increases in market interest rates may adversely affect the financial strength ratings of our subsidiaries, as rating agency capital models may reduce the amount of available capital relative to required capital. Management believes that because of the size and liquidity of our Life and Retirement companies’ investment portfolios, normal deviations from projected claim or surrender experience would not create significant liquidity risk. Furthermore, our Life and Retirement companies’ products contain certain features that mitigate surrender risk, including surrender charges. However, in times of extreme capital markets disruption or as a result of fluctuations in the capital markets generally, liquidity needs could outpace resources. As part of their risk management framework, our Life and Retirement companies continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue strategies and programs to improve their liquidity position and facilitate their ability to maintain a fully invested asset portfolio. 144 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Certain of our U.S. insurance companies are members of the FHLBs in their respective districts. Borrowings from FHLBs are used to supplement liquidity or for other uses deemed appropriate by management. Our U.S. General Insurance companies had no outstanding borrowings from FHLBs at both December 31, 2020 and 2019. Our U.S. Life and Retirement companies had $3.6 billion and $3.5 billion which were due to FHLBs in their respective districts at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, under funding agreements issued through our Individual Retirement, Group Retirement and Institutional Markets operating segments, which were reported in Policyholder contract deposits. Proceeds from funding agreements are generally invested in fixed income securities and other investments intended to generate spread income. These investment contracts do not have mortality or morbidity risk and are similar to GICs. In addition, our U.S. Life and Retirement companies had no outstanding borrowings in the form of cash advances from FHLBs at both December 31, 2020 and 2019. Certain of our U.S. Life and Retirement companies have programs, which began in 2012, that lend securities from their investment portfolio to supplement liquidity or for other uses as deemed appropriate by management. Under these programs, these U.S. Life and Retirement companies lend securities to financial institutions and receive cash as collateral equal to 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities. Cash collateral received is invested in short-term investments or partially used for short-term liquidity purposes. Additionally, the aggregate amount of securities that a Life and Retirement company is able to lend under its program at any time is limited to five percent of its general account statutory-basis admitted assets. Our U.S. Life and Retirement companies had $3.4 billion and $2.8 billion of securities subject to these agreements at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and $3.5 billion and $2.9 billion of liabilities to borrowers for collateral received at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. AIG generally manages capital between AIG Parent and our insurance companies through internal, Board-approved policies and limits, as well as management standards. In addition, AIG Parent has unconditional capital maintenance agreements (CMAs) in place with certain subsidiaries. Nevertheless, regulatory and other legal restrictions could limit our ability to transfer capital freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In June 2020, upon closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, the CMA between AIG Parent and Fortitude Re was terminated. AIG Parent and/or certain subsidiaries are parties to several letter of credit agreements with various financial institutions, which issue letters of credit from time to time in support of our insurance companies. These letters of credit are subject to reimbursement by AIG Parent and/or certain subsidiaries in the event of a drawdown by our insurance companies. Letters of credit issued in support of the General Insurance companies totaled approximately $4.6 billion at December 31, 2020. Letters of credit issued in support of the Life and Retirement companies totaled approximately $612 million at December 31, 2020. In June 2020, upon closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, the $550 million of letters of credit issued in support of Fortitude Re and subject to reimbursement by AIG in the event of a drawdown were terminated. In 2020, our General Insurance companies collectively paid a total of approximately $1.3 billion in dividends in the form of cash and fixed maturity securities to AIG Parent. The fixed maturity securities primarily included U.S. treasuries and securities issued by other U.S. agencies. In June 2020, upon closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, AIG contributed $700 million of the proceeds of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale to certain of its General Insurance subsidiaries. In 2020, our Life and Retirement companies collectively paid a total of approximately $581 million in dividends and loan repayments in the form of cash to AIG Parent. In June 2020, upon closing of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, AIG contributed $135 million of the proceeds of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale to certain of its Life and Retirement subsidiaries. Tax Matters In October 2020, the Southern District of New York dismissed the case for the 1997 tax year related to the disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross border financing transactions based upon the settlement reached between AIG and the government. The settlement concluded our ongoing dispute related to the disallowance of foreign tax credits associated with cross border financing transactions for all years and as a result of the settlement, we will be required to make a payment to the U.S. Treasury. The amount we currently expect to pay based on settlement terms is approximately $0.7 billion, including obligations of AIG Parent and subsidiaries. This amount is net of payments previously made with respect to cross border financing transactions from tax years 1997 through 2006 and other matters related to 2006 and prior, including a prepayment of approximately $548 million that AIG made to the U.S. Treasury in June 2020. The amount also includes interest that will become due after review of the interest calculations and will reflect benefits from the application of interest netting which AIG has requested. There remains uncertainty with regard to the amount and timing of any additional payments, which could be made during the first half of 2021. For additional information regarding this matter see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 145 ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Credit Facilities We maintain a committed, revolving syndicated credit facility (the Facility) as a potential source of liquidity for general corporate purposes. The Facility provides for aggregate commitments by the bank syndicate to provide unsecured revolving loans and/or standby letters of credit of up to $4.5 billion without any limits on the type of borrowings and is scheduled to expire in June 2022. On March 20, 2020, we borrowed $1.3 billion under the Facility to further increase AIG Parent liquidity. On June 9, 2020, we repaid the $1.3 billion borrowed under the Facility in full with interest. As of December 31, 2020, a total of $4.5 billion remains available under the Facility. Our ability to utilize the Facility is not contingent on our credit ratings. However, our ability to utilize the Facility is conditioned on the satisfaction of certain legal, operating, administrative and financial covenants and other requirements contained in the Facility. These include covenants relating to our maintenance of a specified total consolidated net worth and total consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization. Failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the Facility would restrict our access to the Facility and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We expect to utilize the Facility from time to time, and may use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity: (a) Represents loss reserves, undiscounted and gross of reinsurance. (b) Does not reflect $9.4 billion of notes issued by consolidated investment entities, for which recourse is limited to the assets of the respective investment entities and for which there is no recourse to the general credit of AIG. (c) The company also procured additional office space via operating lease contracts for which lease commencement will occur in 2021. Future undiscounted obligations stemming from those contracts total $389 million, which excludes the effect of renewal options. (d) Primarily includes contracts to purchase future services and other capital expenditures. (e) Does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $2.3 billion or the expected payment of $0.7 billion to be made to the U.S. Treasury associated with settlement agreements reached between AIG and the government. There remains uncertainty with regard to the amount and timing of the expected payment, which could be made during the first half of 2021. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 146 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Loss Reserves Loss reserves relate to our General Insurance companies and represent estimates of future loss and loss adjustment expense payments based on historical loss development payment patterns. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the payments by period presented above could be materially different from actual required payments. We believe that our General Insurance companies maintain adequate financial resources to meet the actual required payments under these obligations. Insurance and Investment Contract Liabilities Insurance and investment contract liabilities, including GIC liabilities, relate to our Life and Retirement companies. These liabilities include various investment-type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments. These liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) we are not currently making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non-scheduled event beyond our control. We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits. These assumptions include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates, expenses, investment returns and interest crediting rates, offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in-force policies. Due to the significance of the assumptions, the periodic amounts presented could be materially different from actual required payments. The amounts presented in this table are undiscounted and exceed the future policy benefits and policyholder contract deposits included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We believe that our Life and Retirement companies have adequate financial resources to meet the payments actually required under these obligations. These subsidiaries have substantial liquidity in the form of cash and short-term investments. In addition, our Life and Retirement companies maintain significant levels of investment grade rated fixed maturity securities, including substantial holdings in government and corporate bonds, and could seek to monetize those holdings in the event operating cash flows are insufficient. We expect liquidity needs related to GIC liabilities to be funded through cash flows generated from maturities and sales of invested assets. Borrowings Our borrowings exclude those incurred by consolidated investments and include hybrid financial instrument liabilities recorded at fair value. We expect to repay the long-term debt maturities and interest accrued on borrowings by AIG through maturing investments and dispositions of invested assets, future cash flows from operations, cash flows generated from invested assets, future debt or preferred stock issuance and other financing arrangements. Borrowings supported by assets of AIG include various notes and bonds payable as well as GIAs that are supported by cash and investments held by AIG Parent and certain non-insurance subsidiaries for the repayment of those obligations. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 147 ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments The following table summarizes Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity: (a) Excludes potential amounts for indemnification obligations included in asset sales agreements . For further information on indemnification obligations see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) Includes commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds and commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. The commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds are called at the discretion of each fund, as needed for funding new investments or expenses of the fund. The expiration of these commitments is estimated in the table above based on the expected life cycle of the related fund, consistent with past trends of requirements for funding. Investors under these commitments are primarily insurance and real estate subsidiaries. (c) Does not include guarantees, CMAs or other support arrangements among AIG consolidated entities. (d) Primarily represents liquidity facilities provided in connection with certain municipal swap transactions and collateralized bond obligations. (e) Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2021 is expected to be approximately $68 million for U.S. and non-U.S. plans. 148 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Arrangements with Variable Interest Entities We enter into various arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) in the normal course of business, and we consolidate a VIE when we are the primary beneficiary of the entity. For a further discussion of our involvement with VIEs see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . Indemnification Agreements We are subject to financial guarantees and indemnity arrangements in connection with our sales of businesses. These arrangements may be triggered by declines in asset values, specified business contingencies, the realization of contingent liabilities, litigation developments, or breaches of representations, warranties or covenants provided by us. These arrangements are typically subject to time limitations, defined by contract or by operation of law, such as by prevailing statutes of limitation. Depending on the specific terms of the arrangements, the maximum potential obligation may or may not be subject to contractual limitations. For additional information regarding our indemnification agreements see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have recorded liabilities for certain of these arrangements where it is possible to estimate them. These liabilities are not material in the aggregate. We are unable to develop a reasonable estimate of the maximum potential payout under some of these arrangements. Overall, we believe the likelihood that we will have to make any material payments under these arrangements is remote. Debt The following table provides the rollforward of AIG’s total debt outstanding: (a) AIG Parent guarantees all such debt, except for Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable, which are direct obligations of AIG Parent. Collateral posted to third parties was $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. This collateral primarily consists of securities of the U.S. government and government sponsored entities and generally cannot be repledged or resold by the counterparties. (b) Primarily represents adjustments to the fair value of debt. (c) At December 31, 2020, includes debt of consolidated investment entities related to real estate investments of $3.1 billion, affordable housing partnership investments of $2.3 billion and other securitization vehicles of $4.0 billion. At December 31, 2019, includes debt of consolidated investment entities related to real estate investments of $3.2 billion, affordable housing partnership investments of $2.1 billion and other securitization vehicles of $4.6 billion. (d) Includes the effect of consolidating previously unconsolidated partnerships. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 149 ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources TOTAL DEBT OUTSTANDING (in millions) Debt Maturities The following table summarizes maturing long-term debt at December 31, 2020 of AIG for the next four quarters: See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on debt outstanding. Credit Ratings Credit ratings estimate a company’s ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability of financing to that company. The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing. Figures in parentheses indicate the relative ranking of the ratings within the agency’s rating categories; that ranking refers only to the major rating category and not to the modifiers assigned by the rating agencies. (a) Moody’s appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating categories. (b) S&P ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (c) Fitch ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (d) AIG guarantees all obligations of AIG Financial Products Corp. 150 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at our request. For a discussion of rating agency actions in response to AIG’s announced intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG, see Recent Rating Agency Actions below. We are party to some agreements that contain “ratings triggers.” Depending on the ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies, these triggers could result in (i) the termination or limitation of credit availability or a requirement for accelerated repayment, (ii) the termination of business contracts or (iii) a requirement to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties. In the event of a downgrade of AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings, AIG Financial Products Corp. and related subsidiaries (collectively AIGFP) and certain other AIG entities would be required to post additional collateral under some derivative and other transactions, or certain of the counterparties of AIGFP or of such other AIG entities would be permitted to terminate such transactions early. The actual amount of collateral that we would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade. For a discussion of the effects of downgrades in our credit ratings see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity, Capital and Credit. FINANCIAL STRENGTH Ratings Financial Strength ratings estimate an insurance company’s ability to pay its obligations under an insurance policy. The following table presents the ratings of our significant insurance subsidiaries as of the date of this filing. These financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. For a discussion of the effects of downgrades in our financial strength ratings see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity, Capital and Credit. recent Rating Agency Actions In response to the announcement by AIG on October 26, 2020 of its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG, the rating agencies in the tables above took the following actions:  On October 27, 2020, A.M. Best issued a comment stating that its financial strength and issuer credit ratings on AIG and subsidiaries are unchanged as a result of the announcement.  On October 28, 2020, Fitch placed the credit ratings of AIG on “Rating Watch Negative.” Fitch also affirmed the financial strength ratings and outlooks on AIG’s insurance subsidiaries.  On October 28, 2020, Moody’s placed the debt ratings of AIG on review for downgrade. Moody’s also affirmed the financial strength ratings and outlooks on AIG’s insurance subsidiaries.  On October 27, 2020, S&P placed the credit ratings of AIG and the financial strength ratings of most of the General Insurance subsidiaries on CreditWatch with negative implications. S&P also placed the financial strength ratings of the Life and Retirement subsidiaries on CreditWatch with developing implications. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 151 ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulation and Supervision For a discussion of our regulation and supervision by different regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad, including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources see Part 1. Item 1. Business – Regulation and Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulation. Dividends On February 12, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.32 per share, payable on March 30, 2020 to shareholders of record on March 16, 2020. On May 4, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.32 per share, payable on June 29, 2020 to shareholders of record on June 15, 2020. On August 3, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.32 per share, payable on September 30, 2020 to shareholders of record on September 17, 2020. On November 5, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.32 per share, payable on December 28, 2020 to shareholders of record on December 14, 2020. On February 16, 2021, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.32 per share, payable on March 30, 2021 to shareholders of record on March 16, 2021. On February 12, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock of $365.625 per share, payable on March 16, 2020 to holders of record on February 28, 2020. On May 4, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock of $365.625 per share, payable on June 15, 2020 to holders of record on May 29, 2020. On August 3, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock of $365.625 per share, payable on September 15, 2020 to holders of record on August 31, 2020. On November 5, 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock of $365.625 per share, payable on December 15, 2020 to holders of record on November 30, 2020. On February 16, 2021, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock of $365.625 per share, payable on March 15, 2021 to holders of record on February 26, 2021. The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors, as discussed further in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Repurchases of AIG Common Stock Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock through a series of actions. As of February 18, 2021, $1.4 billion remained under the authorization. During the first quarter of 2020, we repurchased approximately 12 million shares of AIG Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million under an ASR agreement executed in February 2020 with a third-party financial institution. We did not repurchase any shares of AIG Common Stock during the second, third or fourth quarters of 2020. In January 2021, we repurchased approximately $92 million of additional shares of AIG Common Stock pursuant to an Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan. Shares may be repurchased from time to time in the open market, private purchases, through forward, derivative, accelerated repurchase or automatic repurchase transactions or otherwise. Certain of our share repurchases have been and may from time to time be effected through the Exchange Act Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plans. The timing of any future share repurchases will depend on market conditions, our business and strategic plans, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and other factors, as discussed further in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividend Restrictions Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. For a discussion of restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiaries see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements . 152 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management Risk management includes the identification and measurement of various forms of risk, the establishment of risk thresholds and the creation of processes intended to maintain risks within these thresholds while optimizing returns. We consider risk management an integral part of managing our core businesses and a key element of our approach to corporate governance. Overview We have an integrated process for managing risks throughout our organization in accordance with our firm-wide risk appetite. Our Board of Directors has oversight responsibility for the management of risk. Our Enterprise Risk Management Department supervises and integrates the risk management functions in each of our business units, providing senior management with a consolidated view of AIG’s major risk positions. Within each business unit, senior leaders and executives approve targeted risk tolerances within the framework provided by ERM. ERM supports our businesses and management by embedding risk management in our key day-to-day business processes and in identifying, assessing, quantifying, monitoring, reporting, and mitigating the risks taken by our businesses and AIG overall. Nevertheless, our risk management efforts may not always be successful and material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or financial condition may occur. AIG employs a Three Lines of Defense model. AIG’s business leaders assume full accountability for the risks and controls in their operating units, and ERM performs a review, challenge and oversight function. The third line consists of our Internal Audit Group that provides independent assurance for AIG’s Board. Risk Governance Structure Our risk governance structure fosters the development and maintenance of a risk and control culture that encompasses all significant risk categories impacting our lines of business and functions. Accountability for the implementation of risk policies is aligned with individual corporate executives, with the risk committees receiving regular reports regarding compliance with each policy to support risk governance at our corporate level as well as in each business unit. We review our governance and committee structure on a regular basis and make changes as appropriate to continue to effectively manage and govern both our risks and risk-taking activities. Our Board of Directors oversees the management of risk through its Risk and Capital Committee (RCC) and Audit Committee. These committees regularly interact with other committees of the Board of Directors which are further described below. Our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) reports to both the RCC and our President and Global Chief Operating Officer . The Group Risk Committee (GRC): The GRC is the senior management group responsible for assessing all significant risk issues on a global basis to protect our financial strength and reputation. The GRC is chaired by our CRO and includes members of the Executive Leadership Team (ELT). Our CRO reports periodically on behalf of the GRC to both the RCC and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Our CRO is also a member of the ELT providing ERM the opportunity to contribute to, review, monitor and consider the impact of changes in strategy. Management committees that support the GRC are described below. These committees are comprised of senior executives and experienced business representatives from a range of functions and business units throughout AIG and its subsidiaries. These committees are charged with identifying, analyzing and reviewing specific risk matters within their respective mandates. In addition, various working groups (e.g. reputational risk, control agenda) are in place in support of the GRC to manage and monitor the various risks across the organization. Financial Risk Group (FRG): The FRG is responsible for the oversight of financial risks taken by AIG and our subsidiaries. Its mandate includes overseeing our aggregate credit, market, interest rate, capital, liquidity and model risks, as well as asset-liability management, derivatives activity, and foreign exchange transactions. It provides the primary corporate-level review function for all proposed transactions and business practices that are significant in size, complex in scope, or that present heightened legal, reputational, accounting or regulatory risks. The FRG is chaired by our CRO. Membership of the FRG also includes our CFO, Chief Investment Officer and Treasurer. Business Unit Risk Committees: Each of our major insurance businesses have established a risk committee that serves as the senior management committee responsible for risk oversight at the individual business unit level. The risk committees are responsible for the identification, assessment and monitoring of all sources of risk within their respective portfolios. Specific responsibilities include setting risk tolerances or limits, reviewing the capital allocation framework, insurance portfolio optimization, decisions with material impact on the risk profile and providing oversight of risk-adjusted metrics. In performing these responsibilities, the business unit risk committees may leverage input provided by other business unit committees and working groups. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 153 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management In addition to the above, where needed and appropriate, there are risk committees at the legal entity level that support the Business Unit Risk Committees in executing their duties. These duties include ensuring policies are adhered to and transactions are within the AIG risk appetite and have appropriate operational controls or plans for establishing such controls within a reasonable amount of time, as well as ensuring appropriate risk governance at the legal entity level. Risk Appetite, Limits, Identification and Measurement Risk Appetite Framework Our Risk Appetite Framework integrates stakeholder interests, strategic business goals and available financial resources. We balance these by seeking to take measured risks that are expected to generate repeatable, sustainable earnings and create long-term value for our shareholders. The framework includes our risk appetite statement approved by the Board of Directors and a set of supporting tools, including risk tolerances, risk limits and policies, which we use to manage our risk profile and financial resources. We articulate our aggregate risk-taking by setting risk tolerances and thresholds on capital and liquidity measures. These measures are set at the AIG Parent level as well as the legal entity level and cover consolidated and insurance company capital and liquidity ratios. We must comply with standards for capital adequacy and maintain sufficient liquidity to meet all our obligations as they come due in accordance with our capital management and liquidity management policies. Our risk tolerances take into consideration regulatory requirements, rating agency expectations, and business needs. The GRC routinely reviews the level of risk taken by the consolidated organization in relation to the established risk tolerances. A consolidated risk report is also presented periodically to the RCC by our CRO. 154 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Risk Limits A key component of our Risk Appetite Framework is having a process in place that establishes and maintains appropriate tolerances and limits on the material risks identified for our core businesses and facilitates the monitoring and meeting of both internal and external stakeholder expectations. Framework objectives include:  Establishing risk monitoring, providing early warning indicators, and ensuring timely oversight and enforceability of limits;  Defining a consistent and transparent approach to limits governance; and  Aligning our business activities with our risk appetite statement. To support the monitoring and management of AIG’s and its business units’ material risks, ERM has an established limits framework that employs a three-tiered hierarchy:  Board-level risk tolerances are AIG’s aggregate consolidated capital and parent liquidity limits. They define the minimum level of consolidated capital and parent liquidity that we should maintain. These board-level risk tolerances are approved by the Board and monitored by the RCC.  AIG management level limits are risk type specific limits at the AIG consolidated level. These limits are defined and calibrated to constrain our concentration in specific risk types, to protect against taking risks that exceed the amount of overall capital AIG has available, and to protect against excess earnings volatility. These limits are approved by our CRO with consultation from the GRC.  Business unit and legal entity level limits are set to address key risks identified for the business unit and legal entities, protect capital and liquidity at legal entities and/or meet legal entity specific requirements of regulators and rating agencies. These limits are defined by the business unit and legal entity risk officers. All limits are reviewed by the GRC or relevant business unit risk committees on a periodic basis and revisions, if applicable, are approved by those committees. The business units are responsible for measuring and monitoring their risk exposures. ERM is responsible for monitoring compliance with limits and providing regular, timely reporting to our senior management and risk committees. Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner and are documented and escalated in accordance with their level of severity or materiality. Risk Identification and Measurement We conduct risk identification through a number of processes at the business unit and corporate level focused on capturing our material risks. A key initiative is our integrated bottom-up risk identification and assessment process which is conducted down to the product-line level . In addition, we perform an annual top-down risk assessment to identify top risks and assign owners to ensure these risks are appropriately addressed and managed. These processes are used as a critical input to enhance and develop our analytics for measuring and assessing risks across the organization. We employ various approaches to measure, monitor and manage risk exposures, including the utilization of a variety of metrics and early warning indicators. We use a proprietary internal capital and stress testing framework to measure our quantifiable risks. The internal capital framework quantifies our aggregate economic risk at a given confidence interval, after taking into account diversification benefits between risk factors and business lines. We leverage the internal capital framework to help inform our consolidated risk consumption and profile as well as risk and capital allocation for our businesses. The stress testing framework assesses our aggregate exposure to our most significant financial and insurance risks, including the risks in each of our key insurance company subsidiaries in relation to its capital needs under stress, risks inherent in our non-insurance company subsidiaries, and risks to AIG consolidated capital. The framework measures risk over multiple time horizons and under different levels of stress, and includes multi-factor stresses as well as single factor sensitivities that are designed to reflect AIG’s risk characteristics. We use this information to support the assessment of resources needed at the AIG Parent level to support our subsidiaries and capital resources required to maintain consolidated company target capitalization levels. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 155 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Credit Risk Management Overview Credit risk is defined as the risk that our customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also result from a downgrade of a counterparty’s credit ratings or a widening of its credit spreads. We devote considerable resources to managing our direct and indirect credit exposures. These exposures may arise from, but are not limited to, fixed income investments, equity securities, deposits, commercial paper investments, reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements, corporate and consumer loans, leases, reinsurance and retrocessional insurance recoverables, counterparty risk arising from derivatives activities, collateral extended to counterparties, insurance risk cessions to third parties, financial guarantees, letters of credit, and certain General Insurance businesses. Governance Our credit risks are managed by teams of credit professionals, subject to ERM oversight and various control processes. Their primary role is to ensure appropriate credit risk management in accordance with our credit policies and procedures relative to our credit risk parameters. Our Chief Credit Officer (CCO) and credit executives are primarily responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of a risk management framework, which includes the following elements related to our credit risks:  developing and implementing our company-wide credit policies and procedures;  approving delegated credit authorities to our credit executives and qualified credit professionals;  developing methodologies for quantification and assessment of credit risks, including the establishment and maintenance of our internal risk rating process;  managing a system of credit and program limits, as well as the approval process for credit transactions, above limit exposures, and concentrations of risk that may exist or be incurred;  evaluating, monitoring, reviewing and reporting of credit risks and concentrations regularly with senior management; and  approving appropriate credit reserves, credit-related other-than-temporary impairments and corresponding methodologies for all credit portfolios. We monitor and control our company-wide credit risk concentrations and attempt to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level of credit risk in some circumstances, we may require mitigants, such as third-party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, including commercial bank-issued letters of credit and trust collateral accounts. We treat these guarantees, reinsurance recoverables, and letters of credit as credit exposure and include them in our risk concentration exposure data. We also closely monitor the quality of any trust collateral accounts. For further information on our credit concentrations and credit exposures see Investments – Available-for-Sale Investments. Our credit risk management framework incorporates the following elements: 156 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Market Risk Management Overview Market risk is defined as the risk of adverse impact due to systemic movements in one or more of the following market risk drivers: equity and commodity prices, residential and commercial real estate values, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange, inflation, and their respective levels of volatility. We are engaged in a variety of insurance, investment and other financial services businesses that expose us to market risk, directly and indirectly. We are exposed to market risks primarily within our insurance and capital markets activities, on both the asset and the liability sides of our balance sheet through on- and off-balance sheet exposures. Within each business, the risk officer is responsible for creating a framework for proper identification of market risks, and ensuring that the risks are appropriately measured, monitored and managed, and are in accordance with the risk governance framework established by the Chief Market Risk Officer (CMRO). The scope and magnitude of our market risk exposures is managed under a robust framework that contains defined risk limits and minimum standards for managing market risk in a manner consistent with our risk appetite statement. Our market risk management framework focuses on quantifying the financial repercussions of changes in the above mentioned market risk drivers. Many of our market risk exposures, including exposures to changes in levels of interest rates and equity prices, are associated with the asset and liability exposures of our Life and Retirement companies. These exposures are generally long-term in nature. Examples of liability-related exposures include interest rate sensitive surrenders in our fixed deferred annuity product portfolio. Also, we have equity market risk sensitive surrenders in our variable annuity product portfolio. These interactive asset-liability types of risk exposures are regularly monitored in accordance with the risk governance framework noted above. Governance Market risk is overseen at the corporate level within ERM through the CMRO. The CMRO is supported by a dedicated team of professionals within ERM. Market Risk is managed by our finance, treasury and investment management corporate functions, collectively, and in partnership with ERM. The CMRO is primarily responsible for the development and maintenance of a risk management framework that includes the following key components:  written policies that define the rules for our market risk-taking activities and provide clear guidance regarding their execution and management;  a limit framework that aligns with our Board-approved risk appetite statement;  independent measurement, monitoring and reporting for line of business, business unit and enterprise-wide market risks; and  clearly defined authorities for all individuals and committee roles and responsibilities related to market risk management. These components facilitate the CMRO’s identification, measurement, monitoring, reporting and management of our market risks. Risk Identification Market risk focuses on quantifying the financial repercussions of changes in broad, external, predominantly market-observable variables. Financial repercussions can include an adverse impact on results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and capital of AIG. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 157 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Each of the following systemic risks is considered a market risk: 158 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Risk Measurement Our market risk measurement framework was developed with the main objective of communicating the range and scale of our market risk exposures. At the firm-wide level, market risk is measured in a manner that is consistent with AIG’s risk appetite statement. This is designed to ensure that we remain within our stated risk tolerance levels and can determine how much additional market risk taking capacity is available within our framework. The framework measures our overall exposure to change in each of the systemic market risk factors on an economic basis. In addition, we monitor risks through multiple lenses that include economic, GAAP and statutory reporting frameworks at various levels of business consolidation. This process aims to establish a comprehensive coverage of potential implications from adverse market risk developments. We use a number of approaches to measure our market risk exposure, including: AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 159 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Market Risk Sensitivities The following table provides estimates of sensitivity to changes in yield curves, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates on our financial instruments and excludes approximately $174.2 billion and $169.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, of insurance liabilities. AIG believes that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance and other liabilities serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets presented in the table below. In addition, the table excludes $39.9 billion of interest rate sensitive assets and $1.5 billion of equity and alternative investments supporting the Fortitude Re funds withheld arrangements as the contractual returns related to the assets are transferred to Fortitude Re, as well as $43.1 billion of related funds withheld payables. 160 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management (a) The economic effect is the difference between the estimated fair value and the effect of a 100 bps parallel increase in all yield curves on the estimated fair value. The estimated fair values for Mortgage and other loans receivable, Policyholder contract deposits (Investment-type contracts) and Long-term debt were $45,146 million, $144,571 million and $31,175 million at December 31, 2020, respectively. The estimated fair values for Mortgage and other loans receivable, Policyholder contract deposits (Investment-type contracts) and Long-term debt were $43,783 million, $133,246 million and $26,427 million at December 31, 2019, respectively. (b) At December 31, 2020, the analysis covered $279.2 billion of $324.0 billion interest-rate sensitive assets. As indicated above, excluded were $36.2 billion and $3.6 billion of fixed maturity securities and loans, respectively, supporting the Fortitude Re funds withheld arrangements. In addition, $3.4 billion of loans and $1.6 billion of assets across various asset categories were excluded due to modeling limitations. At December 31, 2019, the analysis covered $300.2 billion of $306.3 billion interest-rate sensitive assets. Excluded were $3.5 billion of loans. In addition, $2.6 billion of assets across various asset categories were excluded due to modeling limitations. (c) At December 31, 2020, the analysis excluded $643 million of AIGLH borrowings, $348 million of Validus borrowings, $4 million of borrowings from Glatfelter and $361 million of AIG Japan Holdings loans. At December 31, 2019, the analysis excluded $643 million of AIGLH borrowings, $353 million of Validus borrowings, $47 million of borrowings from Glatfelter and $344 million of AIG Japan Holdings loans. (d) The balance sheet exposures for equity contracts and variable annuity and other embedded derivatives are also reflected under “Interest rate sensitive liabilities” above, and are not additive. (e) The majority of the foreign currency exposure is reported on a one quarter lag. The sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. We cannot ensure that actual financial impacts in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated above. Interest rate sensitivity is defined as change in value with respect to a 100 basis point parallel shift up in the interest rate environment, calculated as: scenario value minus base value, where base value is the value under the yield curves as of the period end and scenario value is the value reflecting a 100 basis point parallel increase in all yield curves . We evaluate our interest rate risk without considering effects of correlation of changes in levels of interest rate with other key market risks or other assumptions used for calculating the values of our financial assets and liabilities. This scenario does not measure changes in values resulting from non-parallel shifts in the yield curves, which could produce different results. We evaluate our equity price risk without considering effects of correlation of changes in equity prices with other key market risks or other assumptions used for calculating the values of our financial assets and liabilities. The stress scenario does not reflect the impact of basis risk, such as projections about the future performance of the underlying contract holder funds and actual fund returns, which we use as a basis for developing our hedging strategy. Foreign currency-denominated net asset position reflects our aggregated non-U.S. dollar assets less our aggregated non-U.S. dollar liabilities on a GAAP basis, with certain adjustments. We use a bottom-up approach in managing our foreign currency exchange rate exposures with the objective of protecting statutory surplus at the regulated insurance entity level. At the AIG consolidated level, we monitor our foreign currency exposures against single currency and aggregate currency portfolio limits. Our foreign currency-denominated net asset position at December 31, 2020 increased by $0.1 billion compared to December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in our Canadian dollar position, due to exposure management actions in the US Pool, coupled with a decrease in our British pound position, primarily as a result of debt hedges unwind, as well as an increase in the Euro position, largely due to hedging activity. For illustrative purposes, we modeled our sensitivities based on a 100 basis point parallel increase in yield curves, a 20 percent decline in equity prices and prices of alternative assets, and a 10 percent depreciation of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. The estimated results presented in the table above should not be taken as a prediction, but only as a demonstration of the potential effects of such events. Risk Monitoring and Limits The risk monitoring responsibilities, owned by the business units, include ensuring compliance with market risk limits and escalation and remediation of limit breaches. Such activities must be reported to the ERM Market Risk team by the relevant business unit. This monitoring approach is aligned with our overall risk limits framework. To control our exposure to market risk, we rely on a three-tiered hierarchy of limits that the CMRO closely monitors and reports to our CRO, senior management and risk committees. For further information on our three-tiered hierarchy of limits see Risk Appetite, Limits, Identification and Measurement – Risk Limits . AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 161 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Liquidity Risk Management Overview Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that our financial condition will be adversely affected by the inability or perceived inability to meet our short-term cash, collateral or other financial obligations as they come due. Failure to appropriately manage liquidity risk can result in insolvency, reduced operating flexibility, increased costs, reputational harm and regulatory action. AIG and its legal entities seek to maintain sufficient liquidity both during the normal course of business and under defined liquidity stress scenarios to ensure that sufficient cash will be available to meet the obligations as they come due. AIG Parent liquidity risk tolerance levels are designed to allow us to meet our financial obligations for a minimum of six months under a liquidity stress scenario. We maintain liquidity limits and minimum coverage ratios designed to ensure that funding needs are met under varying stress conditions. If we project that we could breach these tolerances, we assess and determine appropriate liquidity management actions. However, the market conditions in effect at that time may not permit us to achieve an increase in liquidity sources or a reduction in liquidity requirements. Governance Liquidity risk is overseen at the corporate level within ERM. The CRO has responsibility for the oversight of the Liquidity Risk Management Framework and delegates the day-to-day implementation of this framework to the AIG Treasurer. Our treasury function manages liquidity risk, subject to ERM oversight and various control processes. The Liquidity Risk Management Framework is guided by the liquidity risk tolerance as set forth in the Board-approved risk appetite statement. The principal objective of this framework is to establish minimum liquidity requirements that protect our long-term viability and ability to fund our ongoing business, and to meet short-term financial obligations in a timely manner in both normal and stressed conditions. Our Liquidity Risk Management Framework includes liquidity and funding policies and monitoring tools to address AIG-specific, broader industry and market-related liquidity events. Risk Identification The following sources of liquidity and funding risks could impact our ability to meet short-term financial obligations as they come due. Risk Measurement Comprehensive cash flow projections under normal conditions are the primary component for identifying and measuring liquidity risk. We produce comprehensive liquidity projections over varying time horizons that incorporate all relevant liquidity sources and uses and include known and likely cash inflows and outflows. In addition, we perform stress testing by identifying liquidity stress scenarios and assessing the effects of these scenarios on our cash flow and liquidity. 162 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management We use a number of approaches to measure our liquidity risk exposure, including: Relevant liquidity reporting is produced and reported regularly to AIG Parent and business unit risk committees. The frequency, content, and nature of reporting will vary for each business unit and legal entity, based on its complexity, risk profile, activities and size. Operational Risk Management Overview Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss, or other adverse consequences, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events. Operational risk includes legal, regulatory, technology, compliance, third-party and business continuity risks, but excludes business and strategy risks. Operational risk is inherent in each of our business units and functions and can have many impacts, including but not limited to: unexpected economic losses or gains, reputational harm due to negative publicity, regulatory action from supervisory agencies and operational and business disruptions, and/or damage to customer relationships. Governance AIG and its consolidated subsidiaries establish and maintain operational risk and controls governance forums that include representatives from the relevant business units and functions to appropriately manage significant operational risk exposures. Operational risk is overseen at the corporate level within ERM through the Head of Governance and Operational Controls. The Head of Governance and Operational Controls is responsible for the development and maintenance of the operational risk framework that includes policies, standards and deployment of systems. Risk Identification, Measurement and Monitoring The Operational Risk Management (ORM) function within ERM oversees adherence to the operational risk policy and risk and control framework, which includes risk identification, assessment, measurement, management and monitoring of operational risk exposures. ORM supports the Head of Governance and Operational Controls and has responsibility to provide an aggregate view of our operational risk profile. In line with the Three Lines of Defense Model, the ORM program includes, but is not limited to, several key components outlined below:  Risk Event Capture – enables every employee to identify, document, and escalate operational risk events, with a view to enhancing processes, promoting lessons learned and embedding a culture of risk management.  Risk Assessments – allows for the assessment, measurement and management of the key operational risks within our business units and helps inform on the efficacy of our control environment.  Key Risk Indicators – enhances the ongoing monitoring and mitigation of operational risks and facilitate risk reporting.  Issues Management – enables a consistent tracking of issues across the firm, including policy and process exceptions, control deficiencies and findings from risk and control assessment activities.  Scenario Analyses – executed by first- and second-line professionals to identify potential risks that could result in financial losses to the firm and support the prioritization of operational risk treatment. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 163 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management ORM, working together with other control and assurance functions (e.g., Compliance, Financial Controls Unit / Sarbanes Oxley, Global Business Continuity, and Internal Audit) through the risk and control framework, provides an independent view of operational risks for each business, and works with the business unit and corporate function CRO and Owner of the Control Agenda (OCA). The OCA’s responsibilities include coordinating identification, assessment, control and mitigation of risks to the operating environment and promoting awareness to facilitate implementation of the above programs. This includes coverage of operational risks related to core insurance activities, corporate functions, investing, model risk, technology, third-party providers, as well as compliance and regulatory matters. Based on the results of the risk identification and assessment efforts above, business leaders are accountable for tracking and remediating identified issues in line with our risk-monitoring procedures. Governance committees support these efforts and promote transparency enabling improved management decision making. Cybersecurity Risk Cybersecurity risk is an important, constant, and evolving focus for AIG and the insurance and financial services industries in general. The goal of unauthorized parties, using a variety of attack methods, is to gain access to AIG’s data and systems to obtain confidential information, destroy data, disrupt or degrade service, sabotage systems or cause other damage. One such example, is the increased sophistication and activities of unauthorized parties using phishing in an attempt to access our and our service providers’ systems, usually in an effort to obtain sensitive information, which is an ever-present and increasing attack vector against AIG and our service providers. Cybersecurity risks may also derive from unintentional human error or intentional malice on the part of AIG employees or third parties who have authorized access to AIG’s systems or information. ERM works closely with and supports the risk management practices of Information Technology, the Information Security Office and the business units and functions that form the lines of defense against the cybersecurity risks that we face. This includes the risks that emerge as a result of the execution of our business strategies and our corresponding exposure to new products, clients, service providers, industry segments and regions. AIG seeks to mitigate these risks through initiatives such as investments in technological infrastructure, education and training for employees and vendors, and monitoring of industry developments. As part of our overarching cybersecurity strategy, ERM monitors and assesses the programs designed to remediate our exposures and enhance our systems and applications security. AIG’s Board of Directors and its Technology Committee are regularly briefed by management on AIG’s cybersecurity matters, including threats, policies, practices and ongoing efforts to improve security. As part of our disclosure controls and procedures, the Cyber Incident Management team, a cross functional group, is responsible for ensuring that the members of management responsible for disclosure controls are informed in a timely manner of known cybersecurity risks and incidents that may materially impact our operations so that timely notifications and public disclosures can be made as appropriate. There is no guarantee that the measures AIG takes and the resources AIG devotes to protect against cybersecurity risk will provide absolute security or recoverability of AIG’s systems given the complexity and frequency of the risk which AIG may not always be able to anticipate or adequately address. For additional information regarding the data protection and cybersecurity regulations to which we are subject, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – U.S. Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity and – International Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity. For additional discussion of cybersecurity risks, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Business and Operations. 164 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Insurance Risks Overview Insurance risk is defined as the risk of actual claims experience and/or policyholder behavior being materially different than initially expected at the inception of an insurance contract. Uncertainties related to insurance risk can lead to deviations in magnitude and/or timing of prospective cash flows associated with our liabilities compared to what we expected. Except as described above, we manage our business risk oversight activities through our insurance operations. A primary goal in managing our insurance operations is to achieve an acceptable risk-adjusted return on equity. To achieve this goal, we must be disciplined in risk selection, premium adequacy, and appropriate terms and conditions to cover the risk accepted. We operate our insurance businesses on a global basis, and we are exposed to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. We manage these risks throughout the organization, both centrally and locally, through a number of processes and procedures, including, but not limited to:  pricing and risk selection models including regular monitoring;  pricing approval processes;  pre-launch approval of product design, development and distribution;  underwriting approval processes and authorities;  modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events);  risk transfer tools such as reinsurance, both internal and third-party;  review and challenge of reserves to ensure comprehensive analysis with established escalation procedures to provide appropriate transparency in reserving decisions and judgments made in the establishment of reserves;  management of relationship between assets and liabilities, including hedging;  model risk management and validation processes; and  experience monitoring and assumption updates. We closely manage insurance risk by monitoring and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each underwritten line of business, concentrations in industries, the terms and conditions of the underwriting and the premiums we charge for taking on the risk. We analyze concentrations of risks using various modeling techniques, including both probability distributions (stochastic) and/or single-point estimates (deterministic) approaches. Governance Insurance risks are monitored at the business unit level and overseen by the business unit’s chief risk officer. As part of our established governance practices, key decisions and considerations related to insurance risks can, and in certain instances, must be raised and deferred for discussion and consideration to the business unit’s risk committees that are chaired by the business unit’s chief risk officer. In addition, in some business units, pricing committees review insurance risk considerations associated with pricing of new insurance products. The insurance risk oversight framework includes the following key components:  articulation of risk appetite by line of business that integrates strategy, financial objectives and capital resources;  written policies that define the rules for our insurance risk-taking activities;  a limit / threshold framework focused on key insurance risks that aligns with our Board-approved risk appetite statement;  clearly defined authorities for all individuals and committee roles and responsibilities related to insurance risk management; and  identification of client segments that meet our selection criteria and a focus on distribution channels that target these customers. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 165 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Risk Identification  General Insurance companies – risks covered include property, casualty, fidelity/surety, accident and health, aviation, mortgage insurance, professional liability, cyber and management liability. We manage risks in the General Insurance business through aggregations and limitations of concentrations at multiple levels: policy, line of business, geography, industry and legal entity.  Life and Retirement companies – risks include mortality and morbidity in the individual and group life insurance and health coverage products, longevity risk in the individual retirement, group retirement and institutional markets products, and policyholder behavior across all product lines. We manage risks through product design, sound medical and non-medical underwriting and at times hedging instruments in the market. We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations. Reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital planning. We may purchase reinsurance on a pooled basis. Pooling of our reinsurance risks enables us to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks. Risk Measurement, Monitoring and Limits Additionally, there are risk-specific assessment tools in place to better manage the variety of insurance risks to which we are exposed. We monitor concentrations of exposure through insurance limits and thresholds aggregated along dimensions such as geography, industry, or counterparty. The risk monitoring responsibilities of the business units include ensuring compliance with insurance risk limits and escalation and remediation of limit breaches. Such activities are reported to management by all business units for informative decision-making on a regular basis. This monitoring approach is aligned with our overall risk limits framework. Risk limits have a consistent framework used across AIG, its business units, and legal entities. For further information on our three-tiered hierarchy of limits see Risk Appetite, Limits, Identification and Measurement – Risk Limits. General Insurance Companies’ Key Risks We manage our risks through risk review and selection processes, exposure limitations, exclusions, deductibles, self-insured retentions, coverage limits, attachment points, and reinsurance. This management is supported by sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis to help determine overall adequacy of provisions for insurance. Underwriting practices and pricing procedures incorporate historical experience, changes in underlying exposure, current regulation and judicial decisions as well as proposed or anticipated regulatory changes or societal trends. 166 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management For General Insurance companies, risks primarily include the following:  Loss Reserves – The potential inadequacy of the liabilities we establish for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is a key risk faced by the General Insurance companies. There is significant uncertainty in factors that may drive the ultimate development of losses compared to our estimates of losses and loss adjustment expenses. We manage this uncertainty through internal controls and oversight of the loss reserve setting process, as well as reviews by external experts. For further information see Critical Accounting Estimates – Insurance Liabilities – Loss Reserves.  Underwriting – The potential inadequacy of premiums charged for future risk periods on risks underwritten in our portfolios can impact the General Insurance companies’ ability to achieve an underwriting profit. We develop pricing based on our estimates of losses and expenses, but factors such as market pressures and the inherent uncertainty and complexity in estimating losses may result in premiums that are inadequate to generate underwriting profit. This may be driven by adverse economic conditions, unanticipated emergence of risks or increase in frequency of claims, or unexpected or increased costs or expenses.  Catastrophe Exposure – Our business is exposed to various catastrophic events in which multiple losses can occur and affect multiple lines of business in any calendar year. Natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes and other catastrophes, have the potential to adversely affect our operating results. Other risks, such as man-made catastrophes or pandemic disease, could also adversely affect our business and operating results to the extent they are covered by our insurance products. Concentration of exposure in certain industries or geographies may cause us to suffer disproportionate losses.  Single Risk Loss Exposure – Our business is exposed to loss events that have the potential to generate losses from a single insured client. Events such as fires or explosions can result in loss activity for our clients. The net risk to us is managed to acceptable limits established by the Chief Underwriting Officer through a combination of internal underwriting standards and external reinsurance. Furthermore, single risk loss exposure is managed and monitored on both a segregated and aggregated basis.  Reinsurance – Since we use reinsurance to limit our losses, we are exposed to risks associated with reinsurance including the unrecoverability of expected payments from reinsurers due to either an inability or unwillingness to pay, contracts that do not respond properly to the event or actual reinsurance coverage that is different than anticipated. The inability or unwillingness to pay is considered credit risk and is monitored through our credit risk management framework. Natural Catastrophe Risk We manage catastrophe exposure with multiple approaches such as setting risk limits based on aggregate Probable Maximum Loss (PML) modeling, monitoring overall exposures and risk accumulations, modifying our gross underwriting standards, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance through both the traditional reinsurance and capital markets in addition to other reinsurance protections. We use third-party catastrophe risk models and other tools to evaluate and simulate frequency and severity of catastrophic events and associated losses to our portfolios of exposures. We apply adjustments to modeled losses to account for loss adjustment expenses, model biases, data quality and non-modeled risks. We perform post-catastrophe event studies to identify model inefficiencies, underwriting gaps, and improvement opportunities. Lessons learned from post-catastrophe event studies are incorporated into the modeling and underwriting processes of risk pricing and selection. The majority of policies exposed to catastrophic risks are one-year contracts that allow us to adjust our underwriting guidelines, pricing and exposure accumulation in a relatively short period. We recognize that climate change has implications for insurance industry exposure to natural catastrophe risk. With multiple levels of risk management processes in place, we actively analyze the latest climate science and policies to anticipate potential changes to our risk profile, pricing models and strategic planning. For example, we continually consider changes in climate and weather patterns as an integral part of the underwriting process. In addition, we provide insurance products and services to help our clients be proactive against the threat of climate change. Our internal product development, underwriting, and modeling, will continue to adapt to and evolve with the developing risk exposures attributed to climate change. Our natural catastrophe exposure to primary modeled perils is principally driven by the U.S. and secondarily Japan, though our overall exposure is diversified across multiple countries and perils. For example, we have exposures to additional perils such as European windstorms and wildfire exposures across multiple countries. Within the U.S., we have significant hurricane exposure in Florida, the Gulf of Mexico, the Northeast U.S. and mid-Atlantic regions. Within the U.S., we have significant earthquake exposure in California and the Pacific Northwest regions. Earthquakes impacting the Pacific Northwest region may result in a higher share of industry losses than other regions primarily due to our relative share of exposure in these regions. The table below details our modeled estimates of PML, net of reinsurance, on an annual aggregate basis. The 1-in-100 and 1-in-250 PMLs are the annual aggregate probable maximum losses with probability of 1 percent and 0.4 percent in a year, respectively. Estimates as of December 31, 2020 reflect our in-force portfolio for exposures as of October 1, 2020 and all inuring reinsurance covers as of December 31, 2020, except for the catastrophe reinsurance programs, which are as of January 1, 2021. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 167 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management The following table presents an overview of annual aggregate modeled losses for world-wide all perils and exposures arising from our largest primarily modeled perils: (a) The world-wide all peril loss estimate includes wildfire exposure. (b) The U.S. hurricane loss estimate includes losses to Commercial and Personal Property from hurricane hazards of wind and storm surge. (c) The U.S. earthquake loss estimates represent exposure to Commercial and Personal Property, Workers’ Compensation (U.S.) and A&H business lines. (d) Japan Typhoon loss estimate represents exposure to Commercial and Personal Property. (e) Japan Earthquake loss estimate represents exposure to Commercial and Personal Property and A&H business lines. (f) Taxed at the statutory tax rate of 21 percent for both the U.S. and Japanese modeled losses. The majority of Japan exposures are ceded to our U.S. Pool. AIG, along with other property casualty insurance and reinsurance companies, uses industry-recognized catastrophe models and applies proprietary modeling processes and assumptions to arrive at loss estimates. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Since there is no industry standard for assumptions and preparation of insured data for use in these models, our modeled losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies. Also, the modeled results are based on the assumption that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations to us under the terms of the reinsurance arrangements. However, reinsurance recoverables may not be fully collectible. Therefore, these estimates are inherently uncertain and may not accurately reflect our net exposure, inclusive of credit risk, to these events. Our 2021 property catastrophe reinsurance program is a worldwide program providing both aggregate and per occurrence protection, with differing per occurrence and aggregate attachment points for North America, Japan, and Rest of World (for these purposes, Hawaii is included in Rest of World and Mexico and the Caribbean are included in North America). The program includes $2.05 billion of aggregate limit that is shared across the regional towers. Our coverage for North America includes:  $1.275 billion of per occurrence protection covering our U.S and Caribbean personal lines business, with varying attachment points in specific geographies ranging from $50 million to $150 million  Per occurrence protection of up to $1 billion excess of $200 million (or excess $500 million for Southeast US and Gulf State Named Storm losses), primarily covering commercial exposures but also personal lines exposures not covered by the above personal lines protection  Aggregate protection utilizing the $2.05 billion of shared limit attaching excess $500 million with per occurrence deductibles of $25 million, $50 million or $75 million, depending on region/event, primarily covering commercial exposures Our coverage for exposure outside North America includes:  Japan per occurrence coverage of $550 million excess of $200 million and includes both personal and commercial exposure  Rest of World per occurrence coverage of $300 million excess of $100 million, including both personal and commercial exposure  Rest of World and Japan $2.05 billion of aggregate shared limit attaching excess of $160 million and $250 million, respectively, with per occurrence deductibles of $20 million Although the shared limit coverage for North America, Japan and Rest of World has varying retentions per region, the maximum aggregate retention globally, after the impact of the per occurrence deductibles, is $750 million for 2021. We have also purchased property per risk covers that provide protection against large losses globally, which include those emanating from non-critical catastrophe events (all events except for named windstorm and earthquake) globally as well as critical catastrophe events (named windstorm and earthquake) outside North America. For Validus Re, our catastrophe protection comes from a variety of reinsurance protections but is largely providing $475 million of limit excess $300 million of retention from world-wide exposure via an aggregate excess of loss cover with an additional $450 million of limit excess $700 million via the Tailwind Re Cat Bond for U.S., Puerto Rico and Canada named storm losses. 168 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Actual results in any period are likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the modeled scenarios. The occurrence of one or more severe events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For additional information see also Item 1A. Risk Factors – Reserves and Exposures. Terrorism Risk We actively monitor terrorism risk and manage exposures to losses from terrorist attacks. We have set risk limits based on modeled losses from certain terrorism attack scenarios. Terrorism risks are modeled using a third-party vendor model for various terrorism attack modes and scenarios. Adjustments are made to account for vendor model gaps and the nature of the General Insurance companies’ exposures. Examples of modeled scenarios are conventional bombs of different sizes, anthrax attacks and nuclear attacks. Our largest terrorism concentrations are in New York City, and estimated losses are largely driven by the Property and Workers’ Compensation lines of business. At our largest exposure location, modeled losses for a five-ton bomb attack net of the TRIPRA and reinsurance recoveries are estimated to be $1.7 billion based on the exposures as of October 1, 2020. Our exposure to terrorism risk in the U.S. is mitigated by TRIPRA in addition to limited private reinsurance protections. TRIPRA covers terrorist attacks within the United States or U.S. missions and against certain U.S. carriers or vessels and excludes certain lines of business as specified by applicable law. In 2020, TRIPRA covers 80 percent of insured losses above a deductible. The current estimate of our deductible is approximately $1.8 billion for 2020. We offer terrorism coverage in many other countries through various insurance products and participate in country terrorism pools when applicable. International terrorism exposure is estimated using scenario-based modeling and exposure concentration is monitored routinely. Targeted reinsurance purchases are made for some lines of business to cover potential losses due to terrorist attacks. We also rely on the government-sponsored and government-arranged terrorism reinsurance programs, including pools, in force in applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks We manage risk through product design, experience monitoring, pricing and underwriting discipline, risk limits and thresholds, reinsurance and active monitoring and management of the alignment between risk and cash flow profiles of assets and liabilities, and hedging instruments. For Life and Retirement companies, risks include the following:  Longevity risk – represents the risk of an increase in liabilities associated with an insurance product, e.g. an annuity policy or a payout benefit as a result of actual mortality experience being lower than the expected mortality experience. This risk could arise from medical advancement and longer-term societal health changes. This risk exists in a number of our product lines but is most significant for our annuity products.  Morbidity risk – represents the risk arising from actual morbidity (e.g. illness, disability or disease) incidence rate being higher than expected or the length of the claims extending longer than expected resulting in a higher overall benefit payout. This risk could arise from longer-term adverse societal health changes or from medical advances in detection and treatment for various diseases and medical conditions resulting in higher claims. This risk exists in a number of our product lines such as accident and health and long-term care businesses which for the most part are in run-off, and ceded to Fortitude Re and the U.S. group benefits which AIG has exited.  Mortality (including Pandemic) risk – represents the risk of unexpected loss arising from current actual mortality experience being higher than expected mortality experience. This risk could arise from pandemics or other events, including longer-term societal changes or slower emergence of mortality improvements that cause higher-than-expected current mortality rates. This risk exists in a number of our product lines, but is most significant for our life insurance products.  Policyholder behavior risk (including full and partial surrender/lapses) – represents the risk that actual policyholder behavior differs from expected behavior in a manner that has an adverse effect on our operating results. There are many related assumptions made when products are sold, including how long the contracts will persist and other assumptions which impact the expected utilization of contract benefits, options and guarantees. Actual experience can vary significantly from these assumptions. This risk is impacted by a number of factors including changes in market conditions, especially changes in the levels of yields, equity prices, tax law, regulations, competitive landscape and policyholder preferences. This risk exists in many of our product lines, but most notably within the individual annuity and life portfolio of business. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 169 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management The emergence of significant adverse experience compared to the experience we expected and priced for could require an adjustment to benefit reserves and/or DAC, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results of operations for a particular period. For additional discussion of the impact of actual and expected experience on DAC and benefit reserves see Critical Accounting Estimates – Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts and Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity Products. For additional discussion of business risks see Item 1A. Risk Factors – Business and Operations. Variable Annuity, Index Annuity and Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs Our Individual and Group Retirement businesses offer variable and index annuity products with guaranteed living benefit (GLB) riders that guarantee a certain level of lifetime income. Variable and certain index annuity GLBs are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value recorded in Other realized capital gains (losses). GLB features subject the Life and Retirement companies to market risk, including exposure to changes in levels of interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and market volatility. Product design is the first step in managing our exposure to these market risks. Risk mitigation features of our variable annuity product designs include GLB rider fees indexed to an equity market volatility index, which can provide additional fee assessments in periods of increased market volatility, required minimum allocations to fixed accounts to reduce overall equity exposure, and for some of the variable annuity products, the utilization of volatility control funds, which have an ability to adjust equity exposures in these funds in response to changes in market volatility, even under sudden or extreme market movements. We utilize asset liability management and hedging programs to manage economic exposure to market risks that are not fully mitigated through product designs. Our hedging program is designed to offset certain changes in the economic value of embedded derivatives associated with our variable annuity, index annuity and index universal life liabilities, within established thresholds. The hedging program is designed to provide additional protection against large and combined movements in levels of interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and market volatility under multiple scenarios. Our hedging program utilizes an economic hedge target, which represents our estimate of the underlying economic risks in the embedded derivatives. For example, for variable annuity GLBs, the hedge targets are calculated as a difference between present value of the future expected benefit payments for the GLB and the present value of future GLB rider fees, with present values determined over numerous equally weighted stochastic scenarios. This stochastic projection method uses best estimate assumptions for policyholder behavior (including mortality, lapses, withdrawals and benefit utilization) in conjunction with market scenarios calibrated to observable equity and interest rate option prices. Policyholder behaviors are regularly monitored to compare current assumptions to actual experience and, if appropriate, changes are made to the policyholder behavior assumptions. The risk of changes in policyholder behavior is not explicitly hedged, and such differences between expected and actual policyholder behaviors will result in hedge ineffectiveness. Due to differences between the calculation of the value of the economic hedge target and the U.S. GAAP valuation of the embedded derivative, which include differences in the treatment of rider fees and exclusion of certain risk margins and other differences in discount rates, we expect relative movements in the value of the economic hedge target and the U.S. GAAP embedded derivative valuation will vary over time with changes in levels of equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and volatility. For information on the impact on our consolidated pre-tax income from the change in fair value of the embedded derivatives and the hedging portfolio, as well as additional discussion of differences between the economic hedge target and the valuation of the embedded derivatives see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Reserves and DAC – Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results . In designing the hedging portfolio for our variable annuity hedging program, we make assumptions and projections about the future performance of the underlying mutual funds. We use these assumptions to project future policy level account value changes. We map the mutual funds to a set of publicly traded indices that we believe best represent the liability to be hedged. Basis risk exists due to the variance between fund returns projected under these assumptions and actual fund returns, which may result in variances between changes in the value of the hedging portfolio and changes in the economic value of the hedge target. Net hedge results and the associated cost of hedging are also impacted by differences between realized volatility and implied volatility. 170 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Our hedging programs associated with index annuity and index universal life products, are designed to manage market risk associated with the index crediting strategies offered on these product platforms. These hedging programs are designed to offset economic risk arising in conjunction with index returns, associated with the crediting strategies that will be occurring during the current crediting rate reset period. Similarly, as with the variable annuities, there are differences between the calculation of the value of the economic hedge target and the U.S. GAAP valuation of the index annuity and index life embedded derivatives, which can lead to variances in their relative movements. To manage the capital market exposures embedded within the economic hedge target, we identify and hedge market sensitivities to changes in equity markets, interest rates, volatility and for variable annuities, credit spreads. Each hedge program purchases derivative instruments or securities having sensitivities that offset corresponding sensitivities in the associated economic hedge targets, within internally defined threshold limits. Since the relative movements of the hedging portfolio and the economic hedge target vary over time or with market changes, the net exposure can be outside the threshold limits, and adjustments to the hedging portfolio are made periodically to return the net exposure to within the threshold limits. Our hedging programs utilize various derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts, interest rate swaps and swaptions, as well as other hedging instruments. In addition, within the variable annuities hedging program, we purchase certain fixed income securities. To minimize counterparty credit risk, the majority of the derivative instruments utilized within the hedging programs are cleared through global exchanges. Over the counter derivatives utilized within the hedging programs are highly collateralized. The hedging programs are monitored on a daily basis to ensure that the economic hedge targets and the associated derivative portfolios are within the threshold limits, pursuant to the approved hedging strategies. Daily risk monitoring verifies that the net risk exposures are within the approved net risk exposure threshold limits. In addition, monthly stress tests are performed to determine the program’s effectiveness relative to the applicable limits, under an array of combined severe market stresses in equity prices, interest rates, volatility and credit spreads. Finally, hedging strategies are reviewed regularly to gauge their effectiveness and continued applicability in managing our market exposures in the context of our overall risk appetite. Reinsurance Activities Reinsurance is used primarily to manage overall capital adequacy and mitigate the insurance loss (Life and Non-Life) exposure related to certain events, such as natural and man-made catastrophes, death events, or single policy level events. Our subsidiaries operate worldwide primarily by underwriting and accepting risks for their direct account on a gross basis and reinsuring a portion of the exposure on either an individual risk or an aggregate basis to the extent those risks exceed the desired retention level. In addition, as a condition of certain direct underwriting transactions, we may be required by clients, agents or regulation to cede all or a portion of risks to specified reinsurance entities, such as captives, other insurers, local reinsurers and compulsory pools. Reinsurance markets include:  Traditional local and global reinsurance markets including those in the United States, Bermuda, London and Europe, accessed directly and through reinsurance intermediaries;  Capital markets through insurance-linked securities and collateralized reinsurance transactions, such as catastrophe bonds, sidecars and similar vehicles; and  Other insurers that engage in both direct and assumed reinsurance. The form of reinsurance we may choose from time to time will generally depend on whether we are seeking:  proportional reinsurance, whereby we cede a specified percentage of premiums and losses to reinsurers;  non-proportional or excess of loss reinsurance, whereby we cede all or a specified portion of losses in excess of a specified amount on a per risk, per occurrence (including catastrophe reinsurance) or aggregate basis; or  facultative contracts that reinsure individual policies. We continually evaluate the relative attractiveness of different forms of reinsurance contracts and different markets that may be used to achieve our risk and profitability objectives. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve our subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds. However, an effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates our exposure to potentially significant losses. In certain markets, we are required to participate on a proportional basis in reinsurance pools based on our relative share of direct writings in those markets. Such mandatory reinsurance generally covers higher-risk consumer exposures such as assigned-risk automobile and earthquake, as well as certain commercial exposures such as workers’ compensation. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 171 ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Reinsurance Recoverable AIG’s reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of:  Paid losses recoverable – balances due from reinsurers for losses and loss adjustment expenses paid by our subsidiaries and billed, but not yet collected.  Ceded loss reserves – ultimate ceded reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses, including reserves for claims reported but not yet paid and estimates for IBNR.  Ceded reserves for unearned premiums.  Life and Annuity reinsurance recoverables (ceded policy and claim reserves and policyholder contract deposits). At December 31, 2020, total reinsurance recoverable assets were $73.5 billion. These assets include general reinsurance paid losses recoverable of $2.8 billion, ceded loss reserves of $34.5 billion including reserves for IBNR claims, and ceded reserves for unearned premiums of $4.1 billion, as well as life reinsurance recoverable of $32.1 billion. The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses over multiple years. These methods are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income. We believe that the amount recorded for ceded loss reserves at December 31, 2020 reflects a reasonable estimate of the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses may, however, differ from the reserves currently ceded. The Reinsurance Credit Department (RCD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial strength and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The RCD monitors both the financial condition of reinsurers as well as the total reinsurance recoverable ceded to reinsurers, and sets limits with regard to the amount and type of exposure we are willing to take with reinsurers. As part of these assessments, we attempt to identify whether a reinsurer is appropriately licensed, assess its financial capacity and liquidity, and evaluate the local economic and financial environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. The RCD reviews the nature of the risks ceded and the need for measures, including collateral to mitigate credit risk. For example, in our treaty reinsurance contracts, we frequently include provisions that require a reinsurer to post collateral or use other measures to reduce exposure when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, we limit our unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the use of credit triggers such as insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in regulatory capital, or relevant RBC ratios fall below certain levels. We also set maximum limits for reinsurance recoverable exposure, which in some cases is the recoverable amount plus an estimate of the maximum potential exposure from unexpected events for a reinsurer. In addition, credit executives within ERM review reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approve reinsurer credit limits above specified levels. Finally, even where we conclude that uncollateralized credit risk is acceptable, we require collateral from active reinsurance counterparties where it is necessary for our subsidiaries to recognize the reinsurance recoverable assets for statutory accounting purposes. At December 31, 2020, we held $79.4 billion of collateral, in the form of funds withheld, securities in reinsurance trust accounts and/or irrevocable letters of credit, in support of reinsurance recoverable assets from unaffiliated reinsurers. The following table presents information for each reinsurer representing in excess of five percent of our total reinsurance recoverable assets: (a) The financial strength ratings reflect the ratings of the various reinsurance subsidiaries of the companies listed as of January 20, 2021. (b) Total reinsurance assets include both Property Casualty and Life and Retirement reinsurance recoverable. (c) Excludes collateral held in excess of recoverable balances. (d) Includes $13.8 billion recoverable under the 2011 retroactive asbestos reinsurance transaction and the 2017 adverse development reinsurance agreement. At December 31, 2020, we had no significant reinsurance recoverable due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled. Reduced profitability associated with lower interest rates, market volatility and catastrophe losses (including COVID-19), could potentially result in reduced capacity or rating downgrades for some reinsurers. The RCD, in conjunction with the credit executives within ERM, reviews these developments, monitors compliance with credit triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and seeks to use other appropriate means to mitigate any material risks arising from these developments. For further discussion of reinsurance recoverable see Critical Accounting Estimates – Reinsurance Recoverable. 172 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Other BUSINESS RiskS Derivative Transactions We utilize derivatives principally to enable us to hedge exposure associated with changes in levels of interest rates, currencies, credit, commodities, equity prices and other risks. Credit risk associated with derivative counterparties exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to us. The maximum potential exposure will increase or decrease during the life of the derivative commitments as a function of maturity and market conditions. All derivative transactions must be transacted within counterparty limits that have been approved by ERM. We evaluate counterparty credit quality via an internal analysis that is consistent with the AIG Credit Policy. We utilize various credit enhancements, including letters of credit, guarantees, collateral, credit triggers, credit derivatives, margin agreements and subordination to reduce the credit risk related to outstanding financial derivative transactions. We require credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness of the counterparties, and transaction size and maturity. Furthermore, we enter into certain agreements that have the benefit of set-off and close-out netting provisions, such as ISDA Master Agreements. These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, we can set off receivables from a counterparty against payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated fair values. The fair value of our interest rate, currency, credit, commodity and equity swaps, options, swaptions, and forward commitments, futures, and forward contracts reported as a component of Other assets, was approximately $0.8 billion at both December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Where applicable, these amounts have been determined in accordance with the respective master netting agreements. The following table presents the fair value of our derivatives portfolios in asset positions by internal counterparty credit rating: * Below investment grade includes not rated. For additional discussion related to derivative transactions see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 173 Glossary Glossary Accident year The annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted The combined ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting. Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted The loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting. Acquisition ratio Acquisition costs divided by net premiums earned. Acquisition costs are those costs incurred to acquire new and renewal insurance contracts and also include the amortization of VOBA and DAC. Acquisition costs vary with sales and include, but are not limited to, commissions, premium taxes, direct marketing costs and certain costs of personnel engaged in sales support activities such as underwriting. Additional premium represents a premium on an insurance policy over and above the initial premium imposed at the beginning of the policy. An additional premium may be assessed if the insured’s risk is found to have increased significantly. Adjusted revenues exclude Net realized capital gains (losses), income from non-operating litigation settlements (included in Other income for GAAP purposes) and changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits (included in Net investment income for GAAP purposes). Adjusted revenues is a GAAP measure for our segments. Assets under administration include assets under management and Retail Mutual Funds and Group Retirement mutual fund assets that we sell or administer. Assets under management include assets in the general and separate accounts of our subsidiaries that support liabilities and surplus related to our life and annuity insurance products and the notional value of stable value wrap contracts. Attritional losses are losses recorded in the current accident year, which are not catastrophe losses. Base Spread Net investment income excluding income from alternative investments and other enhancements, less interest credited excluding amortization of sales inducement assets. Base Yield Net investment income excluding income from alternative investments and other enhancements, as a percentage of average base invested asset portfolio, which excludes alternative investments, other bond securities and certain other investments for which the fair value option has been elected. Book value per common share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets and deferred tax assets (DTA) (Adjusted book value per common share) is a non-GAAP measure and is used to show the amount of our net worth on a per-common share basis. Adjusted book value per common share is derived by dividing total AIG common shareholders’ equity, excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets and DTA (Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity), by total common shares outstanding. Casualty insurance Insurance that is primarily associated with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the insured, and the legal liability imposed on the insured as a result. Combined ratio Sum of the loss ratio and the acquisition and general operating expense ratios. CSA Credit Support Annex A legal document generally associated with an ISDA Master Agreement that provides for collateral postings which could vary depending on ratings and threshold levels. Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)/Non-Performance Risk Adjustment (NPA) The CVA/NPA adjusts the valuation of derivatives to account for nonperformance risk of our counterparty with respect to all net derivative assets positions. Also, the CVA/NPA reflects the fair value movement in AIGFP's asset portfolio that is attributable to credit movements only, without the impact of other market factors such as interest rates and foreign exchange rates. Finally, the CVA/NPA also accounts for our own credit risk in the fair value measurement of all derivative net liability positions and liabilities where AIG has elected the fair value option, when appropriate. DAC Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. 174 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K Glossary DAC Related to Unrealized Appreciation (Depreciation) of Investments An adjustment to DAC and Reserves for investment-oriented products, equal to the change in DAC and unearned revenue amortization that would have been recorded if fixed maturity securities available for sale and also, prior to 2018, equity securities at fair value had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. An adjustment to benefit reserves for investment-oriented products is also recognized to reflect the application of the benefit ratio to the accumulated assessments that would have been recorded if fixed maturity securities available for sale and also, prior to 2018, equity securities at fair value had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields (collectively referred to as shadow Investment-Oriented Adjustments). For long-duration traditional products, significant unrealized appreciation of investments in a sustained low interest rate environment may cause additional future policy benefit liabilities to be recorded (shadow loss reserves). Deferred Gain on Retroactive Reinsurance Retroactive reinsurance is a reinsurance contract in which an assuming entity agrees to reimburse a ceding entity for liabilities incurred as a result of past insurable events. If the amount of premium paid by the ceding reinsurer is less than the related ceded loss reserves, the resulting gain is deferred and amortized over the settlement period of the reserves. Any related development on the ceded loss reserves recoverable under the contract would increase the deferred gain if unfavorable, or decrease the deferred gain if favorable. Expense ratio Sum of acquisition expenses and general operating expenses, divided by net premiums earned. General operating expense ratio General operating expenses divided by net premiums earned. General operating expenses are those costs that are generally attributed to the support infrastructure of the organization and include but are not limited to personnel costs, projects and bad debt expenses. General operating expenses exclude losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, acquisition expenses, and investment expenses. GIC/GIA Guaranteed Investment Contract/Guaranteed Investment Agreement A contract whereby the seller provides a guaranteed repayment of principal and a fixed or floating interest rate for a predetermined period of time. IBNR Incurred But Not Reported Estimates of claims that have been incurred but not reported to us. ISDA Master Agreement An agreement between two counterparties, which may have multiple derivative transactions with each other governed by such agreement, that generally provides for the net settlement of all or a specified group of these derivative transactions, as well as pledged collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of a default on, or affecting any, one derivative transaction or a termination event affecting all, or a specified group of, derivative transactions. LAE Loss Adjustment Expenses The expenses directly attributed to settling and paying claims of insureds and include, but are not limited to, legal fees, adjuster’s fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim settlement costs. Loan-to-Value Ratio Principal amount of loan amount divided by appraised value of collateral securing the loan. Loss Ratio Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. Loss reserve development The increase or decrease in incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses related to prior years as a result of the re-estimation of loss reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserves Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses. The estimated ultimate cost of settling claims relating to insured events that have occurred on or before the balance sheet date, whether or not reported to the insurer at that date. Master netting agreement An agreement between two counterparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts covered by such agreement, as well as pledged collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or upon termination of any one such contract. Natural catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG in excess of $10 million each and man-made catastrophe losses, such as terrorism and civil disorders that exceed the $10 million threshold. Net premiums written represent the sales of an insurer, adjusted for reinsurance premiums assumed and ceded, during a given period. Net premiums earned are the revenue of an insurer for covering risk during a given period. Net premiums written are a measure of performance for a sales period, while net premiums earned are a measure of performance for a coverage period. Noncontrolling interests The portion of equity ownership in a consolidated subsidiary not attributable to the controlling parent company. Policy fees An amount added to a policy premium, or deducted from a policy cash value or contract holder account, to reflect the cost of issuing a policy, establishing the required records, sending premium notices and other related expenses. AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 175 Glossary Pool A reinsurance arrangement whereby all of the underwriting results of the pool members are combined and then shared by each member in accordance with its pool participation percentage. Premiums and deposits – Life and Retirement includes direct and assumed amounts received and earned on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and life-contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal life, investment-type annuity contracts, FHLB funding agreements and mutual funds. Prior year development See Loss reserve development . RBC Risk-Based Capital A formula designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus compared to the risks inherent in its business. Reinstatement premiums Additional premiums payable to reinsurers or receivable from insurers to restore coverage limits that have been reduced or exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance The practice whereby one insurer, the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued. Retroactive Reinsurance See Deferred Gain on Retroactive Reinsurance . Return on common equity – Adjusted after-tax income excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re’s Funds Withheld Assets and DTA (Adjusted return on common equity) is a non-GAAP measure and is used to show the rate of return on common shareholders’ equity. Adjusted return on common equity is derived by dividing actual or annualized adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders by average Adjusted Common Shareholders’ Equity. Return premium represents amounts given back to the insured in the case of a cancellation, an adjustment to the rate or an overpayment of an advance premium. SIA Sales Inducement Asset Represents enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders on certain annuity and investment contract products that meet the criteria to be deferred and amortized over the life of the contract. Solvency II Legislation in the European Union which reforms the insurance industry’s solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards. The Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC) was adopted on November 25, 2009 and became effective on January 1, 2016. Subrogation The amount of recovery for claims we have paid our policyholders, generally from a negligent third party or such party’s insurer. Surrender charge A charge levied against an investor for the early withdrawal of funds from a life insurance or annuity contract, or for the cancellation of the agreement. Surrender rate represents annualized surrenders and withdrawals as a percentage of average reserves and Group Retirement mutual fund assets under administration. Unearned premium reserve Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect unearned premiums, which are usually refundable to policyholders if an insurance or reinsurance contract is canceled prior to expiration of the contract term. VOBA Value of Business Acquired Present value of projected future gross profits from in-force policies of acquired businesses. 176 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K Acronyms Acronyms AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 177