********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Risk Factor Summary The following is a summary of the material risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Market Conditions • Deterioration of economic conditions, geopolitical tensions, changes in market conditions or weakening in global capital markets may materially affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. • Changes in interest rates have materially and adversely affected and may continue to materially and adversely affect our profitability. Reserves and Exposures • The amount and timing of insurance and reinsurance liability claims are difficult to predict and such claims may exceed the related liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses or future policy benefits, or the liabilities associated with certain guaranteed benefits and indexed features accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value. • Reinsurance may be unavailable or too expensive relative to its benefit, and may not be adequate to protect us against losses. • Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events. • Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition. • Concentration of our insurance, reinsurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects. • Fortitude Re may fail to perform its obligations and the accounting treatment of our reinsurance agreements with Fortitude Re leads to volatility in our results of operations. • We may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits. • Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by counterparties may materially and adversely affect the value of our investments, our profitability and sources of liquidity. Investment Portfolio and Concentration of Investments • Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the economy, and the performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. • We rely on investment management and advisory arrangements with third-party investment managers for the majority of our investment portfolio. The historical performance of Blackstone, BlackRock or any other investment manager we engage should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investment portfolio, our future results or any returns expected on AIG Common Stock. • Our valuation of investments and derivatives involves the application of methodologies and assumptions to derive estimates, which may differ from actual experience and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity or lead to volatility in our net income. Liquidity, Capital and Credit • AIG Parent’s ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited, and our sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs, including providing capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. • We may not be able to generate cash to meet our needs due to the illiquidity of some of our investments. • A downgrade by one or more of the rating agencies in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and impair their retention of customers and in-force business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. • Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the continuing phase out of LIBOR and uncertainty related to LIBOR replacement rates may affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Business and Operations • No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will be completed or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the separation and will have continuing equity market exposure to Corebridge until we fully divest our stake. • Pricing for our products is subject to our ability to adequately assess risks and estimate related losses. • Guarantees within certain of our Life and Retirement products may increase the volatility of our results. • Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. • Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations. • We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our critical technology systems and data and safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. • Third parties we rely upon to provide certain business and administrative services on our behalf may not perform as anticipated, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. • We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels and the use of third parties may result in additional liabilities. • Failure to effectively execute on AIG 200 could have a material effect on our operations or financial condition. • Business or asset acquisitions and dispositions may expose us to certain risks. • Significant legal or regulatory proceedings may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. • Increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from investors, customers, regulators, policymakers and other stakeholders regarding environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters may adversely affect our reputation or otherwise adversely impact our business and results of operations. • COVID-19 has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our global business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted. • We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. Employees and Competition • Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in reputational damage and significant losses. • Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and managing key employee succession is critical to our success. We may not be able to retain and attract key employees and other highly skilled employees we need to support our businesses. • We face intense competition in each of our business lines, and technological changes may present new and intensified challenges to our businesses. Regulation • Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability. • New laws and regulations or new interpretations of current laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally, may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively. • An “ownership change” could limit our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income. • New and proposed changes to tax laws could increase our corporate taxes or make some of our products less attractive to consumers. Estimates and Assumptions • Estimates or assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements and modeled results used in various areas of our business may differ materially from actual experience. • Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements will impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. • If our businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or establish an additional valuation allowance against the deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Risk Factors Investing in AIG involves risk. In deciding whether to invest in AIG, you should carefully consider the following risk factors. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. They could also cause significant fluctuations and volatility in the trading price of our securities. Readers should not consider any descriptions of these factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect AIG. These factors should be considered carefully together with the other information contained in this report and the other reports and materials filed by us with the SEC. Further, many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. Such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity above and beyond a risk’s singular impact. MARKET CONDITIONS Deterioration of economic conditions, geopolitical tensions, changes in market conditions or weakening in global capital markets may materially affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Our businesses are highly dependent on global economic and market conditions. Weaknesses in economic conditions, including a recessionary environment, poor capital markets performance and market volatility have in the past led, and may in the future lead to, among other consequences, a poor operating environment, erosion of consumer and investor confidence, reduced business volumes, deteriorating liquidity, declines in asset valuations and impacts on policyholder behavior that could influence reserve valuations. Further, if our investment managers, including Blackstone and BlackRock, or any other asset managers we engage, fail to react appropriately to difficult market or economic conditions, our investment portfolio could incur material losses. Key ways in which have in the past been, and could in the future be, negatively affected by economic conditions include: • increases in policy withdrawals, lapses, surrenders and cancellations and other impacts from changes in policyholder behavior compared to that assumed in pricing; • increased loss payments and loss costs due to inflation; • write-offs of deferred policy acquisition costs; • increases in liability for future policy benefits due to loss recognition on certain long-duration insurance and reinsurance contracts; • increases in costs associated with third-party reinsurance, or decreased ability to obtain reinsurance on acceptable terms; and • the increased likelihood of, or increased magnitude of, asset impairments caused by market fluctuations deterioration in collateral values or credit deterioration of borrowers. Adverse economic conditions may result from a variety of factors including domestic and global economic and political developments, including rising interest rates, plateauing or decreasing economic growth and business activity, recessions, inflationary or deflationary pressures in developed economies, including the United States, civil unrest, pandemics, including disruptions caused by COVID-19, geopolitical tensions, foreign investment restrictions, or military action, such as the armed conflict between Ukraine and Russia and corresponding sanctions imposed by the United States and other countries, and new or evolving legal and regulatory requirements on business investment, hiring, migration, labor supply and global supply chains. These and other market, economic, regulatory and political factors, including the impact of any new or prolonged government financial stimulus package or the expiration or suspension thereof, have and could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, capital and liquidity in many ways, including: • lower levels of consumer demand for and ability to afford our products and commercial business activities that have decreased and may continue to decrease revenues and profitability and thus impair goodwill, deferred tax assets or other long-term assets; • increased credit impairments, downgrades and losses across single or numerous asset classes due to lower collateral values or deteriorating cash flow and profitability by borrowers that could lead to higher defaults on the Company’s investment portfolio, especially in geographic, industry or investment sectors where the Company has higher concentrations of exposure, such as real estate related borrowings and widening of credit spreads that could reduce investment asset valuations, decrease fee income and increase statutory capital requirements; • increased market volatility and uncertainty that could decrease liquidity, increase borrowing costs and limit access to capital markets; • the reduction of investment income generated by our investment portfolio; ITEM 1A | Risk Factors • disruption to our business operations in countries experiencing geopolitical tensions as well as increased costs associated with meeting customer needs in such regions; • increased costs related to our direct and third-party support services, labor and financing, increased credit risk and decreased sales as a result of inflationary pressures; and • limitations on business activities and increased compliance risks with respect to economic sanctions regulations relating to jurisdictions in which our businesses operate or we have operations. Changes in interest rates have materially and adversely affected and may continue to materially and adversely affect our profitability. Global interest rates have been increasing, including in the United States, and in some cases, have risen rapidly after an extended period at or near historic lows. We are exposed primarily to the following risks arising from or exacerbated by fluctuations in interest rates: • mismatch between the expected duration of our liabilities and our assets; • impairment to our ability to earn the returns or spreads assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our products; • changes in certain statutory reserve or capital requirements that are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates or prescribed interest rates, such as cash flow testing reserves; • changes in the costs of derivatives we use for hedging or increases in the volume of hedging we do as interest rates change; • loss related to an increase in policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals following a rise in interest rates; • loss from reduced fee income, increased guaranteed benefit costs and accelerated deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC) amortization arising from fluctuations in the variable product separate account values associated with fixed income investment options due to increased interest rates or credit spread widening; • the reinvestment risk associated with more prepayments on mortgage-backed securities and other fixed income securities in decreasing interest rate environments and fewer prepayments in increasing interest rate environments; • volatility in our GAAP results of operations driven by interest rate-related components of liabilities and equity market-related components of optional guaranteed benefits and the cost of associated hedges in low interest rate environments; and • increased financing and refinancing costs, in particular with respect to our corporate debt instruments. Changes in interest rates have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that constitute a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. This in turn has increased and could continue to increase the unrealized loss positions in our portfolio and adversely affect our ability to realize our deferred tax assets, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, changes in interest rates and credit spreads have led to decreasing the average account value of our separate accounts thereby negatively impacting the fee income we earn. In periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, such as the current interest rate environment, we may not be able to purchase, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with yields sufficient to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products that we offer competitive. Therefore, we may need to accept a lower investment spread and, thus, lower profitability, or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. Policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals also tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. These impacts may continue to result in significant cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which could result in realized investment losses when selling assets in an unrealized loss position. Further, the increase in interest rates has and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income and alternative investment securities that constitute a substantial portion of our investment portfolio as well as the alternative investments in our investment portfolio. This in turn could adversely affect our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Conversely, sustained low interest rates as we have experienced in recent years have negatively affected and could in the future negatively affect the performance of our investments and reduce the level of investment income earned on our investment portfolios, resulting in net investment spread compression. We experience lower investment income as well as lower sales of new Life and Retirement insurance products, including interest rate sensitive products, and policies when a low or declining U.S. interest rate environment persists, and/or interest rates turn negative, and these effects can persist so long as the investments purchased and products issued remain outstanding, even after rates have risen. We may also experience lower investment income if we are forced to reinvest cash flows from investments at rates below the average yield of our existing portfolios. Due to practical and capital markets limitations, we have in the past not been and may in the future not be able to fully mitigate our interest rate risk by matching exposure of our assets relative to our liabilities. Low levels of interest rates have in the past and could in the future continue to impair our ability to earn the returns assumed in the pricing and the reserving for our products at the time they were sold and issued. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors In addition, fluctuations in interest rates may expose us to the risk of increases in certain statutory reserve requirements that are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, which would reduce statutory capital, and increases in capital requirements and the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves, which would reduce surplus. The primary source of our exposure to credit spreads is in the value of our fixed income securities. If credit spreads widen significantly, we could be exposed to higher levels of defaults and impairments. If credit spreads tighten significantly, it could result in reduced net investment income and, in turn, reduced profitability associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. Tightening credit spreads would reduce the discount rates used in the principles-based statutory reserve calculation, potentially increasing statutory reserve requirements and, in turn, reducing statutory surplus. Although these effects on bond fund valuation and reserve discount rates run in offsetting directions for either credit spread widening or narrowing, it is possible for one of them to outweigh the other under certain market conditions. Any of these risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. RESERVES AND EXPOSURES The amount and timing of insurance and reinsurance liability claims are difficult to predict and such claims may exceed the related liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses or future policy benefits, or the liabilities associated with certain guaranteed benefits and indexed features accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value. We regularly review the adequacy of the established liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and future policy benefits, as well as liabilities associated with certain guaranteed benefits and indexed features accounted for as embedded derivatives at fair value. We also conduct extensive analyses of our reserves and embedded derivatives during the year. Our liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, future policy benefits and embedded derivatives, however, has and may develop adversely and materially impact our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For General Insurance, estimation of ultimate net losses, loss expenses and the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is a complex process, particularly for both long-tail and medium-tail liability lines of business. There is also greater uncertainty in establishing reserves with respect to new business, particularly new business involving recently introduced product lines. In these cases, there is less historical experience or knowledge and less data upon which the actuaries can rely. Estimating reserves is further complicated by unexpected claims or unintended coverages that emerge due to unexpected events, such as pandemics or geopolitical conflicts. These emerging issues may increase the size or number of claims beyond our underwriting intent and may not become apparent for many years after a policy is issued. While we use a number of analytical reserve development techniques to project future loss development, the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses has been and may continue to be significantly affected by changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors that were relied upon in setting the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses. These changes in loss cost trends or loss development factors could be due to changes in actual versus expected claims and losses, difficulties in predicting changes, such as changes in inflation, unemployment, or other social or economic factors affecting claims, including judicial and legislative actions, and changes in the tort environment. Any deviation in loss cost trends or in loss development factors might not be identified for an extended period of time after we record the initial loss reserve estimates for any accident year or number of years. For Life and Retirement, establishment and ongoing calculations of future policy benefits and related reinsurance assets is a complex process, with significant judgmental inputs, assumptions and modeling techniques. The inputs and assumptions used in connection with calculations of reserves for future policy benefits are inherently uncertain. Experience may develop adversely such that additional reserves must be established or the value of embedded derivatives may increase. Adverse experience could arise out of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, severe short-term events, such as a pandemic or changes to policyholder behavior during stressed economic periods, or due to misestimation of long-term assumptions such as mortality, interest rates, credit spreads, equity market levels and volatility and persistency assumptions. Certain variables, such as policyholder behavior, are difficult to estimate and can have a significant impact on reserves and embedded derivatives. Life and Retirement reviews and updates actuarial assumptions at least annually, typically in the third quarter for reserves and embedded derivatives. Additionally, Life and Retirement regularly carries out loss recognition testing for generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) reporting and cash flow testing for statutory reporting. For additional information on reserve development, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Insurance Reserves. For additional information on our loss reserves, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Loss Reserves and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding these products, see Notes 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 1. Business – Regulation, and Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity, Fixed Annuity and Fixed Index Annuity Products. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Reinsurance may be unavailable or too expensive relative to its benefit, and may not be adequate to protect us against losses. Our subsidiaries are major purchasers of third-party reinsurance and we use reinsurance as part of our overall risk management strategy. Our reinsurance business also purchases retrocessional reinsurance, which allows a reinsurer to cede to another company all or part of the reinsurance obligations originally assumed by the reinsurer. While reinsurance does not discharge our subsidiaries from their obligation to pay claims for losses insured or reinsured under our policies, it does make the reinsurer liable to the subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk. Market conditions beyond our control may impact the availability and cost of reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, reinsurance is typically more difficult or costly to obtain after a year or consecutive years with a large number of major catastrophes. We have been and may, at certain times be, (i) forced to incur additional costs for reinsurance, (ii) unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, or (iii) unable to obtain reinsurance for certain parts of our business. In instances where reinsurance is insufficient or unavailable, we would have to accept an increase in exposure to risk, reduce or stop writing certain lines of business written by our subsidiaries or seek alternatives in line with our risk limits, or a combination thereof. Additionally, we are exposed to credit risk with respect to our subsidiaries’ reinsurers to the extent the reinsurance receivable is not secured, or is inadequately secured, by collateral or does not benefit from other credit enhancements. We also bear the risk that a reinsurer is, or may be, unwilling to pay amounts we have recorded as reinsurance recoverables for any reason, including that (i) the terms of the reinsurance contract do not reflect the intent of the parties to the contract or there is a disagreement between the parties as to their intent, or (ii) the terms of the contract cannot be legally enforced. We also bear the risk that (i) the terms of the contract are interpreted by a court or arbitration panel differently than expected, (ii) the reinsurance transaction performs differently than we anticipated compared to the original structure, terms or conditions, or (iii) a change in laws and regulations, or in the interpretation of the laws and regulations, materially impacts a reinsurance transaction. The insolvency of one or more of our reinsurers, the inability or unwillingness of such reinsurers to make timely payments under the terms of our contracts or payments in an amount equal to our reinsurance recoverable, or the risk that the reinsurance transaction does not operate as intended, including due to a change in laws and regulations or on account of court or arbitration panel interpretations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the use of reinsurance placed in the capital markets may not provide the same levels of protection as traditional reinsurance transactions. Any disruption, volatility and uncertainty in these markets, such as following a major catastrophic event, may limit our ability to access such markets on terms favorable to us or at all. Also, to the extent that we intend to use structures based on an industry loss index or other non-indemnity trigger rather than on actual losses incurred by us, we could be subject to residual risk. Our Life and Retirement companies also utilize intercompany reinsurance arrangements to provide capital benefits to their affiliated cedants. They have and may continue to pursue reinsurance transactions and permitted practices to manage the capital impact of statutory reserve requirements under applicable reserving rules, including PBR. The application of actuarial guidelines and PBR involves numerous interpretations. If state insurance departments do not agree with our interpretations or if regulations change with respect to our ability to manage the capital impact of certain statutory reserve requirements, the statutory reserve requirements of our Life and Retirement companies could increase, or the ability of our Life and Retirement companies to take reserve credit for reinsurance transactions could be reduced or eliminated. Additionally, if the ratings of our Life and Retirement companies decline, we could incur higher costs to obtain reinsurance, each of which could adversely affect sales of our products and our financial condition or results of operations. The availability of private sector reinsurance for terrorism is limited and we currently have limited reinsurance coverage for terrorist attacks. While we benefit from the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA), which provides U.S. government risk assistance to the insurance industry to manage the exposure to terrorism incidents, TRIPRA has specific program limits and does not cover losses in certain lines of business such as personal property and personal casualty. We also rely on the government sponsored and government arranged terrorism reinsurance programs, including pools, in force in applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. For additional information on our reinsurance recoverable, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Reinsurance Activities – Reinsurance Recoverable. Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events . Events such as hurricanes, windstorms, hailstorms, flooding, earthquakes, landslides, wildfires, solar storms, earth sinking, tsunamis, war or other military action, acts of terrorism, explosions and fires, cyberattacks, product defects, pandemics and other highly contagious diseases, mass torts, civil unrest and other catastrophes have adversely affected our business in the past and could do so in the future. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Catastrophic events, and any relevant regulations, could result in losses in any business in which we operate, and could expose us to: • widespread claim costs associated with property, workers’ compensation, accident and health, travel, business interruption, cyber and mortality and morbidity claims; • loss resulting from a decline in the value of our invested assets; • limitations on our ability to recover deferred tax assets; • loss resulting from actual policy experience that is adverse compared to the assumptions made in product pricing; • revenue loss due to decline in customer base; • declines in value and/or losses with respect to companies and other entities whose securities we hold and counterparties we transact business with and have credit exposure to, including reinsurers; and • significant disruptions to our physical infrastructure, systems and operations. Natural and man-made catastrophic events are generally unpredictable. Our exposure to catastrophe-related loss depends on various factors, including the frequency and severity of the catastrophes, the availability of reinsurance, the rate of inflation and the value and geographic or other concentrations of insured companies and individuals. Vendor models and proprietary assumptions and processes that we use to manage catastrophe exposure may prove to be ineffective due to incorrect assumptions or estimates. For example, modeling for terrorism, cyber events and pandemics is more difficult and may be less reliable. In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions following major catastrophes (both natural and man-made) have required and could require us to pay the insured beyond the provisions of the original insurance policy and may prohibit the application of a deductible, resulting in inflated and unanticipated claims; or impose other restrictions after the occurrence of a major catastrophe, which would reduce our ability to mitigate exposure. These initiatives could impair our cash flows and, without regulatory relief, could reduce our subsidiaries’ capital ratios. For additional information on potential catastrophic events, including a sensitivity analysis of our exposure to certain catastrophes, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks. For information regarding the effects of climate change on our business, see Reserves and Exposures – “Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition” below. For information regarding the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, see Business and Operations – “COVID-19 has affected and may continue to adversely affect our global business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted” below. Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Climate change, indicated by higher concentrations of greenhouse gases, a warming atmosphere and ocean, wildfires, diminished snow and ice, and a rise in sea levels, appears to have contributed to an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters and the creation of uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. As such, climate change presents significant financial implications for AIG in areas such as underwriting, claims and investments, as well as risk capacity, financial reserving and operations. Climate change presents challenges to our ability to effectively underwrite, model and price catastrophe risk particularly if the frequency and severity of catastrophic events such as pandemics, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, wildfires and windstorms and other natural disasters continue to increase. For example, losses resulting from actual policy experience may be adverse as compared to the assumptions made in product pricing as well as mortality assumptions and our ability to mitigate our exposure may be reduced. Climate change-related risks may also adversely impact the value of the securities that we hold or lead to credit risk of other counterparties we transact business with, including reinsurers. Our reputation or corporate brand could also be negatively impacted as a result of changing customer or societal perceptions of organizations that we either insure or invest in due to their actions (or lack thereof) with respect to climate change. Any policies adopted by investors to address changing societal perceptions on climate change could result in increased compliance costs to our businesses and changes to our corporate governance and risk management practices, and may affect the type of assets we hold in our investment portfolio. In addition, lawmakers and regulators have imposed and may continue to impose new requirements or issue new guidance aimed at addressing or mitigating climate change-related risks and efforts undertaken in response thereto. Additional actions by foreign governments, regulators and international standard setters could result in substantial additional regulation to which we may be subject. It is also possible that the laws and regulations adopted in U.S. state, U.S. federal or foreign jurisdictions regarding climate change-related risks will differ from one another, and that they could be inconsistent with the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions in which we operate. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Additionally, litigation related to climate change has increased in recent years. Many lawsuits center on enforcement or interpretation of environmental laws and regulations, often seeking to use litigation as a tool to influence governmental and corporate climate policies. Other cases seek damages for contribution to climate change or for insufficient disclosure around material financial risks. Increased litigation of this nature could trigger losses under liability policies, such as casualty and directors’ and officers’ insurance policies, increase our liabilities and affect the viability of certain of our business lines. In addition, severe weather and other effects of climate change result in more frequent and more severe damages, leading to lawsuits. Wildfires in the western U.S., resulting in significant litigation liability for utility companies, are an example of this. Indirect climate change effects are also seen in litigation over flooding, mudslides and other severe weather that results in injury or damage, as well as in construction defect litigation, chemical release lawsuits, and workers’ compensation claims. Litigation related to climate change may, through increased claims from our customers and adverse impacts to the value of the securities that we hold, adversely impact our business and results of operations. We have also faced and may continue to face business continuity risk as a result of climate change-related incidents that may disrupt business operations, including extreme weather events. We cannot predict the long-term impacts of climate change on our business and results of operations. For information regarding risks associated with other catastrophic events, see Reserves and Exposures – “Our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and ratings are subject to the effects of natural and man-made catastrophic events” above. Concentration of our insurance, reinsurance and other risk exposures may have adverse effects. We are exposed to risks as a result of concentrations in our insurance and reinsurance policies, investments, derivatives and other obligations that we undertake for customers and counterparties. We manage these risks related to concentration by monitoring the accumulation of our exposures to factors such as exposure type and size, industry, geographic region, counterparty and other factors. We also seek to use third-party reinsurance, hedging and other arrangements to limit or offset exposures that exceed our retention and risk appetite limits. In certain circumstances, however, these risk management arrangements may not be available on acceptable terms or may prove to be ineffective. Our risk exposures under insurance and reinsurance policies, derivatives and other obligations are, from time to time, compounded by risk exposure assumed in our investment business. Also, our exposure for certain single risk coverages and other coverages may be so large that adverse experience compared to our expectations may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or result in additional statutory capital requirements for our subsidiaries. In addition, the separation of our Life and Retirement business, if completed, could increase the materiality of these potential concentrations in the remaining portfolio. For additional information on risks associated with the separation of the Life and Retirement business from AIG, see Business Operations – “No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will be completed or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the separation and will have continuing equity market exposure to Corebridge until we fully divest our stake” below. Also see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Business Segment Operations – General Insurance – Business Strategy and – Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors, and Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Business Segment Operations – Life and Retirement – Business Strategy and – Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors. Fortitude Re may fail to perform its obligations and the accounting treatment of our reinsurance agreements with Fortitude Re leads to volatility in our results of operations. As of December 31, 2022, approximately $ 29.0 billion of reserves from AIG’s Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and approximately $ 3.2 billion of reserves from AIG’s General Insurance Run-Off Lines, related to business written by multiple wholly-owned AIG subsidiaries, had been ceded to Fortitude Re under reinsurance transactions. These reserve balances are fully collateralized pursuant to the terms of the reinsurance transactions. Our subsidiaries continue to remain primarily liable to policyholders under the business reinsured with Fortitude Re. As a result, if Fortitude Re is unable to successfully operate, or other issues arise that affect its financial condition or ability to satisfy or perform its obligations to our subsidiaries, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity to the extent the amount of collateral posted in respect of our reinsurance receivable is inadequate. Further, as is customary in similar reinsurance agreements, upon the occurrence of certain termination and recapture triggers, our subsidiaries may elect or may be required to recapture the business ceded under such reinsurance agreements, which would result in a substantial increase to our insurance liabilities and statutory capital requirements and may require us to raise capital to recapture such ceded business. These termination and recapture triggers include Fortitude Re becoming insolvent or being placed into liquidation, rehabilitation, conservatorship, supervision, receivership, bankruptcy or similar proceedings, certain regulatory ratios falling below certain thresholds, and, in the case of those reinsurance agreements made with Life and Retirement, Fortitude Re’s failure to perform under the reinsurance agreements, or its entry into certain transactions without receiving the consent of Corebridge. As the reinsurance transactions between AIG and Fortitude Re are structured as modified coinsurance (modco) for the Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and loss portfolio transfer arrangements with funds withheld for the General Insurance Run-Off Lines, the manner in which we account for these reinsurance arrangements has led, and will continue to lead, to volatility in our results of operations. In modco and funds withheld arrangements, the investments supporting the reinsurance agreements, and which reflect ITEM 1A | Risk Factors the majority of the consideration that would be paid to the reinsurer for entering into the transaction, are withheld by, and therefore continue to reside on the balance sheet of, the ceding company (i.e., AIG and its subsidiaries) thereby creating an obligation for the ceding company to pay the reinsurer (i.e., Fortitude Re) at a later date. Additionally, as our applicable insurance subsidiaries maintain ownership of these investments, AIG will maintain its existing accounting for these assets (e.g., the changes in fair value of available for sale securities will be recognized within other comprehensive income). AIG has established a funds withheld payable to Fortitude Re while simultaneously establishing a reinsurance asset representing reserves for the insurance coverage that Fortitude Re has assumed. The funds withheld payable contains an embedded derivative and changes in fair value of the embedded derivative related to the funds withheld payable are recognized in earnings through realized gains (losses). This embedded derivative is considered a total return swap with contractual returns that are attributable to various assets and liabilities associated with these reinsurance agreements. As a result of changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative, we experience volatility in our GAAP net income. For additional information on our exposure to credit risk of reinsurers, see Reserves and Exposures – “Reinsurance may be unavailable or too expensive relative to its benefit, and may not be adequate to protect us against losses” above. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of DAC and record additional liabilities for future policy benefits. We incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. DAC represents deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. The recovery of these costs is generally dependent upon the future profitability of the related business, but DAC amortization varies based on the type of contract. For long-duration traditional business, DAC is generally amortized in proportion to premium revenue and varies with lapse experience. Actual lapses in excess of expectations have and may result in an acceleration of DAC amortization, and therefore, adversely impact our results of operations. DAC for investment-oriented products is generally amortized in proportion to actual and estimated gross profits. Estimated gross profits are affected by a number of factors, including levels of current and expected interest rates, net investment income (which is net of investment expenses) and credit spreads, net realized gains and losses, fees, surrender rates, mortality experience, policyholder behavior experience and equity market returns and volatility. If actual and/or future estimated gross profits are less than originally expected, then the amortization of these costs would be accelerated in the period this is determined and would result in a lower-than-expected profitability, potentially impacting our ability to achieve our financial goals. Additionally, this would also result in a decrease in expected future profitability and an acceleration of the amortization of DAC, and therefore lower than expected pre-tax income earned during the then current period. We also periodically review products for potential loss recognition events, principally long-duration products. This review involves estimating the future profitability of in-force business and requires significant management judgment about assumptions including, but not limited to, mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses and investment returns, including net realized gains (losses). If actual experience or revised future expectations result in projected future losses, we may be required to amortize any remaining DAC and record additional liabilities through a charge to policyholder benefit expense in the then current period, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For additional information on DAC and future policy benefits, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates and Notes 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on changes to accounting standards for long-duration insurance contracts, see Estimates and Assumptions – “Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements will impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.” Losses due to nonperformance or defaults by counterparties may materially and adversely affect the value of our investments, our profitability and sources of liquidity. We are exposed to credit risk arising from exposures to various counterparties related to investments, derivatives, premiums receivable, certain General Insurance businesses and reinsurance recoverables. These counterparties include, but are not limited to, issuers of fixed income and equity securities we hold, borrowers of loans we hold, customers, plan sponsors, trading counterparties, counterparties under swaps and other derivatives instruments, reinsurers, corporate and governmental entities whose payments or performance we insure, joint venture partners, clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses, custodians, brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, intra-group counterparties with respect to derivatives and other third parties, financial intermediaries and institutions and guarantors. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, financial distress, lack of liquidity, adverse economic conditions, operational failure, fraud, government intervention and other reasons. In addition, for exchange-traded derivatives, such as futures, options as well as "cleared" over-the-counter derivatives, we are generally exposed to the credit risk of the relevant central counterparty clearing house and futures commission merchants through which we clear derivatives. Defaults by these counterparties on their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on the value of our investments, business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors An insolvency of, or the appointment of a receiver to rehabilitate or liquidate, a significant competitor could negatively impact our business if such appointment were to impact consumer confidence in our products and services. Additionally, if the underlying assets supporting the structured securities we invest in are expected to default or actually default on their payment obligations, our securities may incur losses. In addition, our exposure to credit risk may be exacerbated in periods of market or credit stress, as derivative counterparties take a more conservative view of their acceptable credit exposure to us, resulting in reduced capacity to execute derivative-based hedges. INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO AND CONCENTRATION OF INVESTMENTS Our investment portfolio is concentrated in certain segments of the economy, and the performance and value of our investment portfolio are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our results of operations and financial condition have in the past been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by the degree of concentration in our consolidated investment portfolio. For example, we have holdings of real estate and real estate-related investments, including residential mortgage- backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities and residential and commercial mortgage loans. We also have significant exposures to financial institutions and, in particular, to money center banks and global banks, certain industries, such as energy and utilities, the U.S. federal, state and local government issuers and authorities, and global financial institutions, governments and corporations. Events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular industry, asset class, group of related industries or geographic region may adversely affect the valuation of our investments to the extent they are concentrated in such segments. Our ability to sell assets in such segments may be limited. Our investments are also subject to market risks and uncertainties, including, in addition to interest rate risk, changes in the level of credit spreads, currency rates, and commodity and equity prices, each of which has affected and will continue to affect the value of investments in our investment portfolio as well as the performance of, and returns generated by, such investments. For information regarding risks associated with interest rate volatility, see Market Conditions – “Changes in interest rates have materially and adversely affected and may continue to materially and adversely affect our profitability” above. Furthermore, our alternative investment portfolio, which is subject to volatility in equity markets, includes investments for which changes in fair value are reported through pre-tax income. An economic downturn or decline in the capital markets has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our investment income, including as a result of decreases in the fair value of alternative investments. We rely on investment management and advisory arrangements with third-party investment managers for the majority of our investment portfolio. The historical performance of Blackstone, BlackRock or any other investment manager we engage should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investment portfolio, our future results or any returns expected on AIG Common Stock. In 2021, AIG entered into a long-term investment management relationship with Blackstone, pursuant to which Blackstone is initially managing $50 billion of Corebridge’s existing investment portfolio, with that amount increasing to an aggregate of $92.5 billion over the next five years. In addition, beginning in April 2022, certain AIG and Corebridge insurance company subsidiaries have entered into investment management agreements with BlackRock, pursuant to which BlackRock is managing over $150 billion of our investments in liquid fixed income and certain private placement assets, including over $90 billion of the Corebridge investment portfolio. As part of the arrangements with Blackstone, Blackstone is serving as exclusive external investment manager for certain of Corebridge's insurance company subsidiaries for certain asset classes, which has led to an increase in investment management fees payable by us as compared to expenses we have historically incurred for similar services. Under the arrangements with Blackstone, there are provisions that require minimum management fees to be paid to Blackstone to the extent actual amounts charged to the Corebridge insurance company subsidiaries are below such minimums. Also, the exclusivity provisions and termination provisions that are part of these arrangements with Blackstone may prevent our Corebridge subsidiaries from retaining other external investment managers with respect to the subject asset classes who may produce better returns on investments than Blackstone. In addition, pursuant to the relevant agreements with Blackstone, if such agreements are terminated for reasons other than certain specified reasons, Corebridge could be required to continue paying investment advisory fees to Blackstone regardless of the termination.  Corebridge may not have the funds available to pay any such fees and its insurance company subsidiaries may not be able or permitted to pay dividends or make other distributions to Corebridge in an amount sufficient to pay any such fees or at all. Any requirement to pay such fees could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. If Blackstone or BlackRock are unable to effectively manage our portfolio, the concentration of assets in our portfolio that are managed by Blackstone and BlackRock could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, Blackstone and BlackRock are generally compensated based solely on our assets which they manage, rather than by investment return targets, and as a result, Blackstone and BlackRock are not directly incentivized to maximize investment return targets. Our investment portfolio’s returns have benefited historically from investment opportunities and general market conditions that may not currently exist and may not be repeated. There can be no guarantee that Blackstone, BlackRock or any other investment ITEM 1A | Risk Factors manager we engage will be able to achieve any particular returns or generate investment opportunities with attractive, risk-adjusted returns for our investment portfolio in the future. Our valuation of investments and derivatives involves the application of methodologies and assumptions to derive estimates, which may differ from actual experience and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity or lead to volatility in our net income. During periods of market disruption, it has been and may continue to be difficult to value certain of our investments or derivatives if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be cases where certain assets in normally active markets with significant observable data become inactive with insufficient observable data due to the financial environment or market conditions in effect at that time. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation and judgment as well as valuation methods that are more complex. These values may not be realized in a market transaction, may not reflect the value of the asset and may change very rapidly as market conditions change and valuation assumptions are modified. Decreases in value and/or an inability to realize that value in a market transaction or other disposition may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For information regarding volatility in accounting as it relates to Fortitude Re, see Reserves and Exposures – “Fortitude Re may fail to perform its obligations and the accounting treatment of our reinsurance agreements with Fortitude Re leads to volatility in our results of operations” above. LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL AND CREDIT AIG Parent’s ability to access funds from our subsidiaries is limited, and our sources of liquidity may be insufficient to meet our needs, including providing capital that may be required by our subsidiaries. As a holding company, AIG Parent depends on dividends and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund operations, pay dividends, meet debt service obligations and meet the capital and liquidity needs of our subsidiaries. The majority of our investments are held by our regulated subsidiaries. Any inability by our subsidiaries to make dividend or other payments in an amount sufficient to enable AIG Parent to meet its cash requirements could have an adverse effect on our operations or our business, results of operations, financial condition, capital and liquidity. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in the future will depend on their earnings, capital levels, tax considerations, covenants contained in any financing or other agreements, applicable regulatory restrictions and rating agency requirements. In addition, such payments could be limited as a result of claims against our subsidiaries by their creditors, including suppliers, vendors, lessors and employees. Additionally, our insurance subsidiaries may be limited in their ability to make dividend payments to AIG Parent in the future because of the need to meet their obligations or to support their own capital levels or because of regulatory limits and restrictions or changes in, or interpretations of, regulatory or rating agency standards. Our decision to pursue strategic changes or transactions in our business and operations may also subject our subsidiaries’ dividend plans to heightened regulatory scrutiny and could make obtaining regulatory approvals for extraordinary distributions by our subsidiaries, if required, more difficult. We are also subject to certain other restrictions on our capital from time to time. If our liquidity is insufficient to meet our needs, we may need to have recourse to third-party financing, external capital markets or other sources of liquidity, which may not be available or could be expensive. The availability and cost of any additional financing at any given time depends on a variety of factors, including general market conditions, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit, regulatory actions and our credit ratings and credit capacity. It is also possible that, as a result of such recourse to external financing, customers, lenders or investors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. If AIG Parent is unable to satisfy a capital need of a subsidiary, the credit rating agencies could downgrade the subsidiary’s financial strength ratings or the subsidiary could become insolvent or, in certain cases, could be seized by its regulator. In the ordinary course of our business, we are required to post collateral for our insurance company subsidiaries from time to time. If our reinsurance liabilities increase, we may be required to post additional collateral for insurance company clients that we reinsure. In addition, we may be required to post additional collateral due to regulatory changes from time to time, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information on our liquidity, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources. For additional information on rating agency requirements, see Liquidity, Capital and Credit – “A downgrade by one or more of the rating agencies in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and impair their retention of customers and in-force business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity” below. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors We may not be able to generate cash to meet our needs due to the illiquidity of some of our investments. We and our subsidiaries have a diversified investment portfolio. However, economic conditions as well as adverse capital market conditions, including a lack of buyers, the inability of potential buyers to obtain financing on reasonable terms, volatility, credit spread changes, interest rate changes, foreign currency exchange rates and/or declines in collateral values have in the past impacted, and may in the future impact, the liquidity and value of our investments. We have investments in certain securities, including certain fixed income structured and privately placed securities as well as investments in private equity funds and hedge funds, mortgage loans, finance receivables and real estate that are less liquid than other types of securities. Collectively, investments in these assets had a carrying value of $66 billion at December 31, 2022. If it became necessary to sell such assets in a stressed market environment, the prices achieved in any sale of such securities may be lower than their carrying value, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Adverse changes in the valuation of real estate and real estate-linked assets, deterioration of capital markets and widening credit spreads have in the past, and may in the future, materially adversely affect the liquidity and the value of our investment portfolios, including our residential and commercial mortgage related securities portfolios. In the event additional liquidity is required by one or more of our companies, it may be difficult for us to generate additional liquidity by selling, pledging or otherwise monetizing these or other of our investments at reasonable prices and time frames. A downgrade by one or more of the rating agencies in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and impair their retention of customers and in-force business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Downgrades of the Insurer Financial Strength (IFS) ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could (i) prevent these companies from selling, or make it more difficult for them to succeed in selling, products and services, (ii) make it more difficult for them to obtain new reinsurance or obtain it on reasonable pricing terms, and/or (iii) result in increased policy cancellations, lapses and surrenders, termination of, or increased collateral posting obligations under, assumed reinsurance contracts, or return of premiums. A downgrade in AIG Parent’s credit ratings could result in a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance or reinsurance subsidiaries. Similarly, under credit rating agency policies, a downgrade of the IFS ratings of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries could also result in a downgrade in AIG Parent’s credit ratings. In addition, a downgrade of our long-term debt ratings could potentially increase our financing costs and limit the availability of financing. A downgrade would also require us to post additional collateral payments related to derivative transactions to which we are a party, and could cause counterparties to limit or reduce their exposure to us and thus reduce our ability to manage our market risk exposures effectively. These events could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. For additional information on rating agency actions, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Credit Ratings and – Financial Strength Ratings. Changes in the method for determining LIBOR and the continuing phase out of LIBOR and uncertainty related to LIBOR replacement rates may affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have assets, liabilities and obligations with interest rates tied to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) for U.S. dollars and other certain remaining currencies. Starting January 1, 2022, all LIBOR settings either ceased to be provided by any administrator, or are no longer representative for all non-U.S. dollar LIBOR settings and one-week and two-month U.S. dollar (USD) LIBOR settings, and we expect the same will occur immediately after June 30, 2023 for the remaining USD LIBOR settings, absent subsequent action by the relevant authorities. Significant recommendations as to alternative rates and as to protocols have been advanced by various regulators and market participants, including the Alternative Reference Rates Committee of the United States Federal Reserve (ARRC), the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA), and the UK FCA, and legislative action by the U.S. Congress and the State of New York, but there can be no assurance that the various recommendations or legislative action will be effective at preventing or mitigating disruption as a result of the transition. In particular, for U.S. dollar LIBOR, the ARRC has selected the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as its preferred replacement benchmark and has formally recommended, in limited cases, a term rate based on SOFR; both ARRC and ISDA have taken significant steps toward implementing various fallback provisions and protocols; and for British pound sterling, relevant authorities have promoted use of Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) as a replacement for LIBOR. However, the market transition away from LIBOR to alternative reference rates, including SOFR or SONIA, is complex and could result in disruptions, among other things, due to differences between LIBOR (an unsecured forward-looking term rate) and alternative rates that are based on historical measures of overnight secured rates; due to failure of market participants to fully accept such alternative rates; or due to difficulties in amending legacy LIBOR contracts or implementing processes for determining new alternative rates. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors The consequences of LIBOR reform could adversely affect the market for LIBOR-based securities, the payment obligations under our existing LIBOR-based liabilities and our ability to issue funding agreements bearing a floating rate of interest, as well as the value of financial and insurance products tied to LIBOR, investment portfolio or the substantial amount of derivatives contracts we use to hedge our assets, insurance and other liabilities. We cannot be certain that measures taken to address the transition from LIBOR will effectively mitigate potential risks related to such transition. In addition, we anticipate there may be additional risks to our current processes and information systems that will need to be identified and evaluated by us. Uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, alternative reference rates or other reforms could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will be completed or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the separation and will have continuing equity market exposure to Corebridge until we fully divest our stake. In September of 2022, AIG closed on the initial public offering of 12.4 percent of Corebridge’s common stock. While we currently intend to sell down our ownership interest in Corebridge over time following expiration of our lock-up, there can be no guarantee as to the timing or pricing thereof. Similar to other business dispositions, the separation of our Life and Retirement business involves a number of risks, including (i) unanticipated developments that may delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect our ability to effect a separation; (ii) significant costs and disruption or distraction of management from AIG’s other business operations, whether or not a separation is completed; (iii) rating agency actions; (iv) unforeseen losses, liabilities or asset impairments arising from the disposition; and (v) if we are successful in separating the business, increased concentration of our business operations. In addition, the separation of our Life and Retirement business, or a significant delay in our ability to continue to separate the business, has and could continue to cause the emergence or exacerbate the effects of many of the other risks noted herein, including: (i) the risk of indemnity claims that could be made against us in connection with divested businesses; (ii) our ability to utilize certain tax loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income going forward; (iii) competition for employees and managing retention of key employees; (iv) maintaining relationships with certain key distributors; (v) concentration of our insurance and other risk exposures; and (vi) increased exposure to certain risks related to deriving revenue from non-U.S. sources. We believe that the separation of our Life and Retirement business allows us and Corebridge to pursue distinct strategies appropriate to our respective markets. However, there can be no assurance that we will realize any or all of the expected strategic, financial, operational or other benefits of the separation. Our businesses and results of operations may be negatively impacted if we are unable to realize the anticipated expense reductions and organizational improvements of the separation and any related restructuring activities, or if implementing these initiatives harms our relationships with customers or employees or our competitive position. A failure to realize expected benefits of the separation could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, we continue to have a significant equity ownership position in Corebridge, and changes in the market price of Corebridge common stock may have a material impact on us. Pricing for our products is subject to our ability to adequately assess risks and estimate related losses. Our business is dependent on our ability to price our products effectively and charge appropriate premiums, policy fees and other charges. Pricing adequacy depends on a number of factors and assumptions, including proper evaluation of insurance risks, our expense levels, expected net investment income to be realized, our response to rate actions taken by competitors, legal and regulatory developments, the ability to obtain regulatory approval for rate changes and inflation. Management establishes target returns for each product based upon the factors described above, certain underwriting assumptions and capital requirements, including statutory, GAAP and economic capital models. We monitor and manage pricing and sales to achieve target returns on new business, but we may not be able to achieve those returns due to the factors discussed above. Inadequate pricing and the difference between estimated results of the above factors compared to actual results could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our operations and our financial condition. Guarantees within certain of our Life and Retirement products may increase the volatility of our results. Certain of our annuity and life insurance products include features that guarantee a certain level of benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits, guaranteed living benefits, including guaranteed minimum income benefits, and products with guaranteed interest crediting rates, including crediting rate guarantees tied to the performance of various market indices. Many of these features are accounted for at fair value as embedded derivatives under GAAP, and they have significant exposure to capital markets and insurance risks. An increase in valuation of liabilities associated with the guaranteed features results in a decrease in our profitability and depending on the magnitude of any such increase, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, including our capitalization, as well as our financial strength ratings. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors We employ a capital markets hedging strategy to partially offset the economic impacts of movements in equity, interest rate and credit markets, however, our hedging strategy may not effectively offset movements in our GAAP equity or our and statutory surplus and capital requirements and may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. Furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or actual levels of mortality/longevity as compared to assumptions in pricing and reserving, combined with adverse market events, could produce losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. These factors, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity including our ability to receive dividends from our operating companies. Changes in interest rates result in changes to the fair value liability. All else being equal, higher interest rates generally decrease the fair value of our liabilities, which increases our earnings, while low interest rates generally increase the fair value of our liabilities, which decreases our earnings. A prolonged low interest rate environment or a prolonged period of widening credit spreads may also subject us to increased hedging costs or an increase in the amount of statutory reserves that our insurance subsidiaries are required to hold for our liabilities, lowering their statutory surplus, which would adversely affect their ability to pay dividends. In addition, it may also increase the perceived value of our benefits to our policyholders, which in turn may lead to a higher than expected benefit utilization and persistency of those products over time. Differences between the change in fair value of the GAAP embedded derivatives, as well as associated statutory and tax liabilities, and the value of the related hedging portfolio may occur and can be caused by movements in the level of equity, interest rate and credit markets, market volatility, policyholder behavior and mortality/longevity rates that differ from our assumptions and our inability to purchase hedging instruments at prices consistent with the desired risk and return trade-off. In addition, we may sometimes choose not to hedge or fully mitigate these risks, based on economic considerations and other factors. The occurrence of one or more of these events has in the past resulted in, and could in the future result in, an increase in the fair value of liabilities associated with the guaranteed benefits without an offsetting increase in the value of our hedges, or a decline in the value of our hedges without an offsetting decline in our liabilities, thus reducing our results of operations and shareholders’ equity. For additional information on these products, see Notes 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Item 1. Business – Regulation and Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity, Fixed Annuity and Fixed Index Annuity Products. Our risk management policies and procedures may prove to be ineffective and leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We have developed and continue to enhance enterprise-wide risk management policies and procedures to identify, monitor and mitigate risk and loss to which we are exposed.  Our risk management policies and procedures may not be sufficiently comprehensive and may not identify or adequately protect us from every risk to which we are exposed. Many of our methods of identifying, measuring, underwriting and managing risks are based upon our study and use of historical market, applicant, customer, employee and bad actor behavior or statistics based on historical models. As a result, these methods may not accurately predict future exposures from events such as a major financial market disruption as the result of a natural or man-made disaster (for example, a climate-related event or terrorist attack), that could be significantly different than the historical measures indicate, and which could also result in a substantial change in policyholder behavior and claims levels not previously observed. We have and will continue to enhance our underwriting processes, including, from time to time, considering and integrating newly available sources of data to confirm and refine our traditional underwriting methods. Our efforts at implementing these improvements may not, however, be fully successful, which may adversely affect our competitive position. We have also introduced new product features designed to limit our risk and taken actions on in-force business, which may not be fully successful in limiting or eliminating risk. We may take additional actions on our in-force business, including adjusting crediting rates and cost of insurance, which may not be fully successful in maintaining profitability and which may result in litigation. Moreover, our hedging programs and reinsurance strategies that are designed to manage market risk and mortality risk rely on assumptions regarding our assets, liabilities, general market factors and the creditworthiness of our counterparties that could prove to be incorrect or inadequate. Our hedging programs utilize various derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts, interest rate swaps and swaptions, as well as other hedging instruments, which may not effectively or completely reduce our risk; and assumptions underlying models used to measure accumulations and support reinsurance purchases may prove inaccurate and could leave us exposed to larger than expected catastrophe losses in a given year. In addition, our current business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be sufficient to reduce the impact of pandemics, cyber risks, including ransomware, and other natural or man-made catastrophic events that are beyond our anticipated thresholds or impact tolerances. Other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us, which may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record and verify large numbers of transactions and events in each jurisdiction in which we operate. Jurisdictions have unique requirements with respect to artificial intelligence and environmental, social and governance matters, which may impact the efficacy of our standardized risk management tools and techniques and therefore our policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Accordingly, our risk management policies and procedures may not adequately mitigate the risks to our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors If our risk management policies and procedures are ineffective, we may suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected. As our businesses change and the markets in which we operate evolve and new risks emerge, including for example risks related to climate change or meeting regulatory and stakeholder expectations relating to ESG or cybersecurity issues, our risk management framework may not evolve at the same pace as those changes. As a result, there is a risk that new products or new business strategies may present risks that are not appropriately identified, monitored or managed. The effectiveness of our risk management strategies may be limited, resulting in losses, because of market stress, unanticipated financial market movements or unanticipated claims experience from adverse mortality, morbidity or policyholder behavior. In addition, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our employees will understand and follow (or comply with) our risk management policies and procedures. Our foreign operations expose us to risks that may affect our operations. We provide insurance, reinsurance, investment and other financial products and services to both businesses and individuals in approximately 70 countries and jurisdictions. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, and we intend to continue to grow our business in strategic markets. Operations outside the United States have in the past been, and may in the future be, affected by regional economic downturns, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, political events or upheaval, sanctions policies, nationalization and other restrictive government or regulatory actions, which could also affect our other operations. AIG subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements and it is possible that local licenses may require AIG Parent to meet certain conditions. Licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification and revocation. Consequently, our insurance subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting future business in some of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. Adverse actions from any single country could adversely affect our results of operations, depending on the magnitude of the event and our financial exposure at that time in that country. AIG is subject to myriad regulations which govern items such as sanctions, bribery and anti-money laundering, for which failure to comply could expose us to significant penalties. The USA Patriot Act of 2011 requires companies to know certain information about their clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious activities. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act makes it unlawful for certain classes of persons and entities to make payments to foreign government officials to assist in obtaining or retaining business. Also, the Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control administers regulations that restrict or prohibit dealings within U.S. jurisdictions involving certain organizations, individuals, countries, and financial products. The UK, the EU and other jurisdictions maintain similar laws and regulations. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective and/or an employee or third party fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including disgorgement, and our business and our reputation could be adversely affected. We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our critical technology systems and data and safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We use information technology systems, infrastructure and networks and other operational systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and use customer, employee, and company data and information. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems and networks to perform necessary business functions. In the event of a natural disaster, a computer virus, unauthorized access, a terrorist attack, cyber attack or other disruption, our systems and networks may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time, and we may be unable to meet our business obligations and regulatory requirements for an extended period of time if our data or systems are disabled, manipulated, destroyed or otherwise compromised. Additionally, some of our systems and networks are older, legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade. Supply chain disruptions or delays could prevent us from maintaining and implementing changes, updates and upgrades to our systems and networks in a timely manner or at all. System and network failures or outages could compromise our ability to perform business functions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business, hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers and expose us to legal claims as well as regulatory investigations and sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Some of these systems and networks also rely upon third-party systems and services, which themselves may rely on the systems and services of other third parties. Problems caused by, or occurring in relation to, our third-party providers’ systems and services, including those resulting from breakdowns or other disruptions in information technology services provided by our third-party providers and the other third-parties on which they rely, our inability to acquire third-party services on commercially acceptable terms, failure of a third-party provider to perform as anticipated or in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, inability of a third-party provider to provide the required volumes of services or third-party providers experiences cyberattacks, security breaches or data breaches, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Like other global companies, the systems and networks we maintain and third-party systems and networks we use have in the past been, and may in the future be, subject to or targets of unauthorized or fraudulent access, including physical or electronic break- ins or unauthorized tampering, as well as attempted cyber and other security threats and other computer-related penetrations such as “denial of service” attacks, phishing, untargeted but sophisticated and automated attacks, and other disruptive software, including ransomware. The frequency and sophistication of such threats continue to increase and often become further heightened in connection with geopolitical tensions. Also, like other global companies, we have an increasing challenge of retaining and attracting highly qualified personnel to assist us in combatting these security threats. We continuously monitor and develop our information security and technology operations in an effort to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of threats to our data, systems and networks, including malware and computer virus attacks, ransomware, unauthorized access, business e-mail compromise, misuse, denial-of-service attacks, system failures and disruptions, both independently and through contracts with third parties. There is no assurance that our security measures, including information security and technology policies and standards, administrative, technical and physical controls and other actions designed as preventative, will provide fully effective protection from such events. AIG maintains insurance to cover operational risks, such as cyber risk and technology outages, but this insurance may not cover all costs associated with the consequences of information systems or personal, confidential or proprietary information being compromised. In the case of a successful ransomware attack in which our data and information systems are compromised and applicable restore control processes to restore access are not effective, our information could be held hostage until a ransom, which may be significant, is paid. In some cases, such a compromise may not be immediately detected which may make it difficult to restore critical services, mitigate damage to assets and maintain the integrity and security of data including our policyholder, employee, agent, and other confidential information processed through our systems and networks. Additionally, since we rely heavily on information technology and systems and on the integrity and timeliness of data to run our businesses and service our customers, any such security event and resulting compromise of systems or data may impede or interrupt our business operations and our ability to service our customers, and otherwise may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are continuously evaluating and enhancing our information security and technology systems and processes, including third-party systems and services on which we rely. These continued enhancements and changes, as well as changes designed to update and enhance our protective measures to address new threats, may not decrease the risk of a system or process failure or may create a gap in the associated security measures during the change period. Any such system or process failure or security measures gap could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We routinely transmit, receive and store personal, confidential and proprietary information by email and other electronic means. Although we attempt to keep such information confidential and secure, we may be unable to do so in all events, especially with clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other third parties who may not have or use appropriate controls to protect personal, confidential or proprietary information. Failure to secure or appropriately handle personal, confidential or proprietary information could cause a loss of data or compromised data integrity, give rise to remediation or other expenses, expose us to liability under U.S. and international laws and regulations, and subject us to litigation, investigations, sanctions, and regulatory and law enforcement action, and result in reputational harm and loss of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Furthermore, certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with laws and regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments, the EU or other jurisdictions or enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges relating to the privacy and security of the information of clients, employees or others. The variety of applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations exposes us to heightened regulatory scrutiny, requires us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses in an effort to ensure and maintain compliance and will continue to impact our business in the future by increasing legal, operational and compliance costs. While we have taken steps to comply with privacy and information security laws, we cannot guarantee that our efforts will meet the evolving standards imposed by data protection authorities. If we are found not to be in compliance with these privacy and security laws and regulations, we may be subject to additional potential private consumer, business partner or securities litigation, regulatory inquiries, and governmental investigations and proceedings, and we may incur damage to our reputation. Any such developments may subject us to material fines and other monetary penalties and damages, divert management’s time and attention, and lead to enhanced regulatory oversight, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, we expect that developments in privacy and cybersecurity worldwide will increase the financial and reputational implications following a significant breach of our or our third-party suppliers’ information technology systems. For additional information on data protection and cybersecurity regulations, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity, and Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk Management – Operational Risk Management – Cybersecurity Risk. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Third parties we rely upon to provide certain business and administrative services on our behalf may not perform as anticipated, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We rely on the use of third-party providers to deliver contracted services in a broad range of areas, including administration of servicing of certain policies and contracts and investment assets, investment accounting, information technology and operational functions, finance and actuarial services, claims administration, human resources and information technology services related to infrastructure, application development and maintenance. In addition, we have engaged with BlackRock for use of its investment management and risk analytics technology, Aladdin. The implementation of Aladdin is comprised of multiple workstreams that are complex and require significant time and resource prioritization.  While we have achieved key milestones in the implementation of the technology, there could be delays due to lack of sufficient resources to execute on a timely basis, inefficiencies stemming from changes that may be required to the program or sequencing, failure to meet operational and financial targets due to additional priorities or other factors.  These risks may impair our ability to achieve anticipated improvements in our businesses or may otherwise harm our operations which could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and operations. Further, we have engaged Blackstone and BlackRock to serve as our investment managers for certain asset classes. For information regarding our reliance on Blackstone and BlackRock as a third-party asset managers, see Investment Portfolio and Concentration of Investments – “We rely on investment management and advisory arrangements with third-party investment managers for the majority of our investment portfolio. The historical performance of Blackstone, BlackRock or any other asset manager we engage should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our investment portfolio, our future results or any returns expected on AIG Common Stock” above. Some of the third-party providers we use are located outside the U.S., which exposes us to business disruptions and political risks inherent to conducting business outside of the U.S. We periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us, such third parties or regulators. If such third-party providers experience disruptions, fail to meet applicable licensure requirements, do not perform as anticipated or in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, terminate or fail to renew our relationships, or such third-party providers in turn rely on services from another third-party provider, who experiences such disruptions, licensure failures, nonperformance or noncompliance, termination or non-renewal of its contractual relationships, we may experience operational difficulties, an inability to meet obligations (including, but not limited to, contractual, legal, regulatory or policyholder obligations), a loss of business, increased costs or reputational harm, compromises to our data integrity, or suffer other negative consequences, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Third parties performing regulated activities on our behalf, such as sales and servicing of insurance products, pose a heightened risk as we may be held accountable for third-party conduct that is not in compliance with applicable law. For information regarding cyber risk arising from third-party providers, see Business and Operations – “We are exposed to certain risks if we are unable to maintain the availability of our critical technology systems and data and safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of our data, which could compromise our ability to conduct business and adversely affect our consolidated business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity” above. We may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our current and future distribution channels and the use of third parties may result in additional liabilities. Although we distribute our products through a wide variety of distribution channels, we maintain relationships with a number of key distributors, which results in certain distributor concentration. Distributors have in the past, and may in the future, elect to renegotiate the terms of existing relationships, such that those terms may not remain attractive or acceptable to us, limit the products they sell, including the types of products offered by us, or otherwise reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us, with or without cause. This could be due to various reasons, such as industry consolidation of distributors or other industry changes that increase the competition for access to distributors, developments in laws or regulations that affect our business or industry, including the marketing and sale of our products and services, adverse developments in our business, the distribution of products with features that do not meet minimum thresholds set by the distributor, strategic decisions that impact our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. Alternatively, renegotiated terms may not be attractive or acceptable to distributors, or we may terminate one or more distribution agreements due to, for example, a loss of confidence in, or a change in control of, one of the third-party distributors. An interruption or reduction in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Key distribution partners could merge, consolidate, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. An increase in bank, wirehouse and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market certain of our products through these channels. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Also, if we are unsuccessful in attracting, retaining and training key distribution partners, or are unable to maintain our distribution relationships, our sales could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, substantially all of our distributors are permitted to sell our competitors’ products. If our competitors offer products that are more attractive than ours or pay higher commission rates to the distribution partners than we do or for other reasons outside of our control, these distribution partners could concentrate their efforts in selling our competitors’ products instead of ours. In addition, we can, in certain circumstances, be held responsible for the actions of our third-party distributors, including broker-dealers, registered representatives, insurance agents and agencies, marketing organizations, and their respective employees, agents and representatives, in connection with the marketing and sale of our products by such parties, including the security of their operations and their handling of confidential information and personal data, in a manner that is deemed not compliant with applicable laws and regulations. This is particularly acute with respect to unaffiliated distributors where we may not be able to directly monitor or control the manner in which our products are sold through third-party firms despite our training and compliance programs. Further, misconduct by employees, agents and representatives of our broker-dealer subsidiaries in the sale of our products could also result in violations of laws by us or our subsidiaries, regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm to us. The precautions we take to prevent and detect the foregoing activities may not be effective. If our products are distributed to customers for whom they are unsuitable or distributed in a manner alleged to be inappropriate, or third-party distributors experience a security or data breach due to deficient operational controls, we could suffer reputational and/or other financial harm to our business. For information regarding suitability standards, see Item 1. Business – Regulation – Regulatory Regimes – United States. Failure to effectively execute on AIG 200 could have a material effect on our operations or financial condition. In 2019, we announced AIG 200, our global, multi-year and enterprise-wide program involving transformational change across the Company. AIG 200 is comprised of ten operational programs mapped against four core objectives that are complex and require significant investment and resource prioritization. While we have already reached our exit run-rate savings goal associated with the program, we still may not fully achieve some or all of the expected benefits from these operational programs. In addition, there could be delays in execution across the programs, particularly with respect to implementation of technology platforms, lack of sufficient resources to execute on a timely basis, inefficiencies stemming from changes that may be required to programs or sequencing, failure to meet operational and financial targets due to additional priorities or other factors, and the inability to secure regulatory approvals, if and when needed. These risks may impair our ability to achieve anticipated improvements in our businesses or may otherwise harm our operations which could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and cash flow. Business or asset acquisitions and dispositions may expose us to certain risks. The completion of any business or asset acquisition or disposition is subject to certain risks, including those relating to the receipt of required regulatory approvals, the terms and conditions of regulatory approvals including any financial accommodations required by regulators, our ability to satisfy such terms, conditions and accommodations, the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of a transaction and the risk that parties may not be willing or able to satisfy the conditions to a transaction. As a result, there can be no assurance that any business or asset acquisition or disposition will be completed as contemplated, or at all, or regarding the expected timing of the completion of the acquisition or disposition. For example, there can be no certainty as to the sale of our remaining stake in Corebridge nor the timing, pricing or terms thereof. Once we complete acquisitions or dispositions, there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated economic, strategic or other benefits of any transaction. For example, the integration of businesses we acquire may not be as successful as we anticipate or there may be undisclosed risks present in such businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including operational, strategic, financial, accounting, legal, compliance and tax risks. Difficulties integrating an acquired business may result in the acquired business performing differently than we expected (including through the loss of customers) or in our failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. Risks resulting from future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In connection with a business or asset disposition, we may also hold a concentrated position in securities of the acquirer as part of the consideration, which subjects us to risks related to the price of equity securities and our ability to monetize such securities. We have also provided and may provide financial guarantees and indemnities in connection with the businesses we have sold or may sell, as described in greater detail in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. While we do not currently believe that claims under these indemnities will be material, it is possible that significant indemnity claims could be made against us. If such a claim or claims were successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. For additional information regarding the risks associated with AIG’s separation of its Life and Retirement business, see Business and Operations – “No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will be completed or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the separation and will have continuing equity market exposure to Corebridge until we fully divest our stake” above. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Significant legal or regulatory proceedings may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In the normal course of business, we face significant risk from regulatory and governmental investigations and civil actions, litigation and other forms of dispute resolution in various domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In our insurance and reinsurance operations, we frequently engage in litigation and arbitration concerning the scope of coverage under insurance and reinsurance contracts, and face litigation and arbitration in which our subsidiaries defend or indemnify their insureds under insurance and reinsurance contracts. Additionally, from time to time, various regulatory and governmental agencies review the transactions and practices of AIG and our subsidiaries in connection with industry-wide and other inquiries into, among other matters, the business practices of current and former operating insurance subsidiaries. Such investigations, inquiries or examinations have and could develop into administrative, civil or criminal proceedings or enforcement actions, in which remedies could include fines, penalties, restitution or alterations in our business practices, and could result in additional expenses, limitations on certain business activities and reputational damage. AIG, our subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors are also subject to, or may become subject to, a variety of additional types of legal disputes brought by holders of AIG securities, customers, employees and others, alleging, among other things, breach of contractual or fiduciary duties, bad faith, indemnification and violations of federal and state statutes and regulations. Certain of these matters may also involve potentially significant risk of loss due to the possibility of significant jury awards and settlements, punitive damages or other penalties. Many of these matters are also highly complex and seek recovery on behalf of a class or similarly large number of plaintiffs. It is therefore inherently difficult to predict the size or scope of potential future losses arising from them, and developments in these matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or consolidated results of operations For information regarding certain legal proceedings, see Notes 15 and 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. I ncreasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from investors, customers, regulators, policymakers and other stakeholders regarding environmental, social and governance matters may adversely affect our reputation or otherwise adversely impact our business and results of operations. There is increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from investors, customers, regulators, policymakers and other stakeholders on ESG practices and disclosures, including those related to environmental stewardship, climate change, diversity, equity and inclusion, racial justice and workplace conduct. These standards and expectations may also, as a whole, reflect contrasting or conflicting values or agendas. Regulators have imposed and likely will continue to impose ESG- related rules and guidance, which may conflict with one another and impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. Moreover, certain organizations that provide information to investors have developed ratings for evaluating companies on their approach to different ESG matters, and unfavorable ratings of our company or our industries may lead to negative investor sentiment and the diversion of investment to other companies or industries. In 2022, we committed to reaching net zero greenhouse gas emissions across our underwriting and investments portfolios by 2050, or sooner. If we are unable to meet targets, standards, or expectations, whether established by us or third parties, it could result in adverse publicity, reputational harm, or loss of customer and/or investor confidence, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. For information on the effects of climate change on our business, see Reserves and Exposures – “Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition” above. COVID-19 has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our global business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted. While the impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic are still evolving, it has caused significant societal disruption and has had adverse economic impacts on our business, such as volatility in the capital markets, disruptions in the labor market, supply chain disruption, mortality increases as compared to pricing expectations and most recently, an inflationary environment. We cannot estimate the full extent to which the pandemic may continue to cause or exacerbate certain risks to our global business, including those discussed herein. Within our investment portfolio, there is exposure to certain segments of the economy, including real estate and real estate-related investments, which exposes us to negative impacts from the deferral of mortgage payments, renegotiated commercial mortgage loans or outright mortgage defaults and potential acceleration of macro trends such as work from home and online shopping, which may negatively impact certain industries, such as brick-and-mortar retail. Moreover, market volatility due to COVID-19 has created and may continue to create dislocations, decreases or variations in observable market activity or availability of information used in the valuation of our assets and liabilities, which could negatively impair the estimates and assumptions used to run our businesses or result in greater variability and subjectivity in our investment decisions. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors Our insurance businesses have and may continue to experience increased claim volume. Beginning in March 2020 and continuing through 2022, we experienced an increase in mortality claims as compared to our historical pricing assumptions, which may continue until the COVID-19 pandemic subsides in its entirety, and decreased demand for certain of our insurance product lines. In addition, COVID-19 adversely affected our premiums and deposits in some of our insurance lines, including our Life and Retirement products. Further, our policies with premium adjustment features tied to exposure levels, as is the case in certain specialty and casualty lines, may be triggered, resulting in premium reductions. We may also incur higher expenses in our insurance businesses and higher legal costs as a result of coverage disputes, including class actions and other proceedings that have been or may in the future be filed against us, our insureds, or others, seeking coverage for COVID 19-related losses or alleging bad-faith denials of coverage for such losses. Due to the scope, severity and extended duration of the pandemic, reinsurance has been and may be more difficult or costly to obtain in general or for certain types of coverage going forward. In addition, reinsurance terms and conditions may change whereby the coverage provided may not be the same or similar to the reinsurance terms and conditions currently available in the reinsurance market. Certain pre-existing operational risks have been and may continue to be exacerbated, notably with respect to potential phishing or other cybersecurity-related events and our increased reliance on technology, including technology of our employees and service providers. Other pre-existing operational risks, such as privacy incidents, fraud, operational resilience and risks related to the operations and resiliency of our vendors, third-party providers and other counterparties, may also be exacerbated. In addition, remote or hybrid work may negatively impact our culture and employees’ morale, which could result in greater turnover, lower productivity and greater operational risks. Due to the evolving and disruptive nature of the COVID-19 pandemic, we could experience other potential impacts, including, but not limited to, potential impairment charges to the carrying amounts of goodwill, deferred tax assets, increased reserves to levels that are difficult to accurately estimate and increased morbidity and mortality expectations from longer term consequences of COVID-19 infections. Further, new and potentially unforeseen risks beyond those described above and in other risk factors herein may arise as a result of the pandemic and the actions taken by governmental and regulatory authorities to mitigate its impact. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims. Effective intellectual property rights protection, including in the form of contractual rights, copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, may be unavailable, limited, or subject to change in some countries where we do or plan to do business. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. We have, and may in the future, litigate to protect our intellectual property. Any such litigation may be costly and may not be successful. Additionally, third parties may have patents or other protections that could be infringed by our products, methods, processes or services or which could limit our ability to offer certain product features. Consequently, we may also be subject to costly litigation in the event that another party alleges that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property litigation could prove to be both costly and unsuccessful result in significant expense,  damages, and in some circumstances we could be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers. Alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties to resolve infringement or contractual disputes. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce the protection of our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. EMPLOYEES AND COMPETITION Employee error and misconduct may be difficult to detect and prevent and may result in reputational damage and significant losses. There have been a number of cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in recent years and we are exposed to the risk that employee fraud or misconduct could occur. Our informational technology, human resources and compliance departments work collaboratively to monitor for fraud and conduct extensive training for employees. However, employee fraud or misconduct may still occur. Instances of fraud, illegal acts, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, misuse of customer or proprietary/confidential information, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements or our internal policies may result in losses and/or reputational damage. Competition for employees in our industry is intense, and managing key employee succession is critical to our success. We may not be able to retain and attract key employees and other highly skilled employees we need to support our businesses. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain and attract key and other highly skilled employees. Due to the intense competition in our industry for key employees, we may be unable to retain or hire such employees. In addition, we may experience higher than expected employee turnover and difficulty attracting new employees as a result of uncertainty from strategic actions and organizational and operational changes. Losing any of our key employees also could have a material adverse effect on our operations given their skills, knowledge of our business, years of industry experience and the potential difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. Our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in retaining and attracting key employees. ITEM 1A | Risk Factors In addition, we would be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for the succession of our Chief Executive Officer, other members of senior management and other key employees. While we have succession plans and long-term compensation plans designed to retain our employees, our succession plans may not operate effectively and our compensation plans cannot guarantee that the services of these employees will continue to be available to us. We face intense competition in each of our business lines, and technological changes may present new and intensified challenges to our businesses. Our businesses operate in highly competitive environments, both domestically and overseas. Our principal competitors are other large multinational insurance organizations, as well as banks, investment banks and other nonbank financial institutions. General Insurance and Life and Retirement compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, and terms and conditions. Reductions of our credit ratings or IFS ratings or negative publicity may make it more difficult to compete to retain existing customers and to maintain our historical levels of business with existing customers, counterparties and distribution relationships. A decline in our position as to any one or more of these factors could adversely affect our profitability. Technological advancements and innovation in the insurance industry, including those related to evolving customer preferences, the digitization of insurance products and services, acceleration of automated underwriting, and electronic processes present competitive risks. Technological advancements and innovation are occurring in distribution, underwriting, recordkeeping, advisory, claims and operations at a rapid pace, and that pace may increase, particularly as companies increasingly use data analytics and technology as part of their business strategy. Additional costs may also be incurred in order to implement changes to automate procedures critical to our distribution channels in order to increase flexibility of access to our services and products. While we seek opportunities to leverage technological advancements and innovation for our customers’ benefit, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if external technological advancements or innovation, or the regulation of technological advancements or innovation, limit our ability to retain existing business, write new business at adequate rates or on appropriate terms, render our insurance products less suitable or impact our ability to adapt or deploy current products as quickly and effectively as our competitors. REGULATION Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in laws and regulations may affect our operations, increase our insurance subsidiary capital requirements or reduce our profitability . Our operations generally, and our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries in particular, are subject to extensive and potentially conflicting laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our business and financial condition are also subject to supervision and regulation by authorities in the various jurisdictions in which we do business. Federal, state and foreign regulators also periodically review and investigate our insurance and reinsurance businesses, including AIG-specific and industry-wide practices. The primary purpose of insurance regulation is the protection of our insurance and reinsurance contract holders. The extent of regulation on our insurance and reinsurance business varies across the jurisdictions in which we operate, but generally is governed by laws that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to insurance departments and similar regulatory agencies. The laws and regulations that apply to our business and operations generally grant regulatory agencies and/or self-regulatory organizations broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to regulate the issuance, sale and distribution of our products, the manner in which we underwrite our policies, the delivery of our services, the nature or extent of disclosures that we give our customers, the compensation of our distribution partners, the manner in which we handle claims on our policies and the administration of our policies and contracts, as well as the power to limit or restrict our business for failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Our Life and Retirement companies and their distributors are also subject to laws and regulations governing the standard of care applicable to sales of our products, the provision of advice to our customers and the manner in which certain conflicts of interest arising from or related to such sales or giving of advice are to be addressed. In addition, federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to certain of our insurance products that are considered ‘securities’ under such laws, including our variable annuity contracts, variable life insurance policies and the separate accounts that issue them, as well as our broker-dealer, investment advisor and mutual fund operations. We strive to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our businesses, operations and legal entities, including maintenance of all required licenses and approvals. The application of and compliance with such laws and regulations may be subject to interpretation, evolving industry practices and regulatory expectations that could result in increased compliance costs. The relevant authorities may not agree with our interpretation of these laws and regulations, including, for example, our implementation of new or revised requirements related to capital, accounting treatment or reserving such as those governing PBR, or with our policies and procedures adopted to address evolving industry practices or meet regulatory expectations. Such authorities’ interpretations and views may also change from time to time. It is also possible that the laws, regulations and interpretations across various jurisdictions in which we do business may conflict with one another and affect how we do business in the United States and globally. If we are found not to have complied with applicable legal or regulatory requirements, these authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities, impose substantial administrative penalties such as fines or require corrective actions, which individually or in the aggregate could interrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, when such authorities’ interpretation of new or revised requirements related to capital, accounting ITEM 1A | Risk Factors treatment and/or valuation manual or reserving (such as PBR) materially differs from ours, we have incurred or may incur higher operating costs, or sales of products subject to such requirements or treatment may be affected. Regulators in jurisdictions in which we do business have adopted RBC, solvency and liquidity standards applicable to insurers and reinsurers operating in their jurisdiction. Failure to comply with such capital (including, in the U.S., RBC), solvency, liquidity and similar requirements, or as otherwise may be agreed by us or one of our insurance company subsidiaries with an insurance regulator, would generally permit the insurance regulator to take certain regulatory actions that could materially impact the affected company’s operations. Those actions range from requiring an insurer to submit a plan describing how it would regain a specified RBC or solvency ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The NAIC recently adopted, and the IAIS is developing and testing, methodologies for assessing group-wide regulatory capital, which might evolve into more formal group-wide capital requirements on certain insurance companies and/or their holding companies that may augment state-law RBC standards, and similar international standards, that apply at the legal entity level, and such capital calculations may be made, in whole or in part, on bases other than the statutory statements of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Furthermore, efforts to address systemic risks within the financial services industry, including insurance services, may lead regulators to apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that we and other insurers or other nonbank financial services companies, including insurers, engage in.  In addition to the regulation of specific activities, the Financial Stability Oversight Council continues to have authority under Dodd-Frank to determine that certain nonbank financial companies be designated as nonbank SIFIs subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and enhanced prudential standards.  We cannot predict the effect that any such initiatives or heightened standards may have on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We also cannot predict the impact that laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions may have on the financial markets generally or our businesses, results of operations or cash flows. It is possible such laws and regulations, and our satisfaction of the relevant criteria and standard-setting initiatives by the FSB and the IAIS, including, but not limited to, the IAIS’ Common Framework for the Supervision of IAIGs, a holistic framework for the assessment and mitigation of systemic risk and the development and refinement of a risk-based global ICS, Solvency II and European Data Protection Board Cross Border Data Transfer in the EU, may significantly alter our business practices. For example, regulators have imposed and may continue to impose new requirements or issue new guidance aimed at addressing or mitigating climate change-related risks. They may also limit our ability to engage in capital or liability management, require us to raise additional capital, and impose burdensome requirements and additional costs. It is also possible that the laws and regulations adopted in foreign jurisdictions will differ from one another, and that they could be inconsistent with the laws and regulations of other jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States. For additional information on our regulatory environment, see Item 1. Business – Regulation. For information regarding the effects of regulations related to climate change on our business, see Reserves and Exposures – “Climate change may adversely affect our business and financial condition” above. For information regarding the regulatory response to the COVID-19 pandemic, see Business and Operations – “COVID-19 has affected and may continue to adversely affect our global business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted” above. New laws and regulations or new interpretations of current laws and regulations, both domestically and internationally, may affect our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and ability to compete effectively. Legislators, regulators and self-regulatory organizations have in the past, and may in the future, periodically consider various proposals that may affect or restrict, among other things, our business practices, product designs and distribution relationships, how we market, sell or service certain products we offer, our capital, reserving and accounting requirements, or the profitability of certain of our businesses. Further, new laws and regulations may affect or significantly limit our ability to conduct certain businesses at all, including proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. These proposals or changes in legislation or regulation could also impose additional taxes on a limited subset of financial institutions and insurance companies (either based on size, activities, geography or other criteria), limit our ability to engage in capital or liability management, require us to raise additional capital, and impose burdensome requirements and additional costs. It is uncertain whether and how these and other such proposals or changes in legislation or regulation would apply to us, those who sell or service our products, or our competitors or how they could impact our ability to compete effectively, as well as our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. An “ownership change” could limit our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income. As of December 31, 2022, on a U.S. GAAP basis, AIG Parent had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $24.8 billion and $22 million in foreign tax credits. Our ability to use these tax attributes to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if we experience an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change will occur when the percentage of AIG Parent's ownership (measured by value) by one or more “5-percent shareholders” (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code) has increased by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage owned by such shareholders at any time during the prior three years (calculated on a rolling basis). An entity that experiences an ownership change generally will be subject to an annual limitation on its utilization of pre-ownership change tax loss ITEM 1A | Risk Factors and credit carryforwards equal to the equity value of the corporation immediately before the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term, tax-exempt rate posted monthly by the IRS (AFR) (subject to certain adjustments). The annual limitation would be increased each year to the extent that there is an unused limitation in a prior year. The limitation on our ability to utilize tax loss and credit carryforwards arising from an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code would be dependent on the value of our equity and the AFR at the time of any ownership change. If we were to experience an “ownership change,” it is possible that a significant portion of our tax loss and credit carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them to offset future taxable income. AIG’s previous Tax Asset Protection Plan (the TAP Plan), which was designed to reduce the likelihood of an “ownership change,” was not extended and thus expired in accordance with its terms on December 11, 2022. The protective amendment (the Protective Amendment) to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which is designed to prevent certain transfers of AIG Common Stock that could result in an “ownership change,” will expire in accordance with its terms on May 13, 2023. If AIG were to experience an “ownership change,” it will no longer have the benefit of the TAP Plan or the Protective Amendment after their respective expiration dates, which would limit its ability to utilize its then remaining tax attributes to offset future tax liability. New and proposed changes to tax laws could increase our corporate taxes or make some of our products less attractive to consumers. The recently enacted Inflation Reduction Act (the IRA), which establishes a new 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) on adjusted book income (of corporations that have an average adjusted book income in excess of $1 billion over a three tax year period) for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022 may impact AIG’s after-tax earnings or cash flow. AIG may be required to pay tax equal to 15% of AIG’s pre-tax financial statement income, as adjusted by the IRA, despite AIG’s U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits. The IRA also includes a nondeductible 1% excise tax on the repurchase of corporate stock for transactions occurring in taxable years after December 31, 2022. The 1% excise tax on share repurchases would increase AIG’s cost of share repurchases. The current U.S. administration and Congressional leadership have proposed additional changes to the U.S. corporate and international tax systems, as well as increasing the taxation of U.S. individuals, including capital gains taxation. An increase in the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate will negatively impact AIG’s future after-tax earnings. The administration and Congressional leadership have also proposed changes to complex provisions in the U.S. international tax system, including the base erosion and anti-abuse tax (BEAT) and global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI). These changes could impact AIG’s after-tax earnings or cash flow. Furthermore, there is the possibility of further regulatory guidance on certain aspects of the BEAT and GILTI, which could impact the amounts recorded with respect to these international provisions, possibly materially. In addition to changing the taxation of corporations in general, there are proposals for increases in tax rates for individuals, capital gains, and changes to the estate tax. These changes could impact demand in the U.S. for life insurance and annuity contracts. New tax laws outside the U.S., in particular those enacted in response to proposals by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, could make substantive changes to the global international tax regime.  Such changes could increase our global tax costs.  AIG continues to monitor and assess the impact of such proposals. Finally, it is possible that tax laws will be further changed either in a technical corrections bill or entirely new legislation. It remains difficult to predict whether or when there will be any tax law changes or further guidance by the authorities in the U.S. or elsewhere in the world. New or proposed changes to tax laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as the impact of proposals on our business can vary substantially depending upon the specific changes or further guidance made and how the changes or guidance are implemented by the authorities. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Consolidated Results of Operations – U.S. Tax Law Changes. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Estimates or assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements and modeled results used in various areas of our business may differ materially from actual experience. Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP), which requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. The accounting policies that we consider most dependent on the application of estimates and assumptions, and therefore may be viewed as critical accounting estimates, are described in Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. These estimates are based on judgment, current facts and circumstances, and, when applicable, internally developed models. Therefore, actual results may differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term, and could have a material effect on our financial statements. In addition, we employ models to price products, calculate reserves and future policy benefits and value assets and execute hedging strategies, as well as to assess risk and determine statutory capital requirements, among other uses. These models are complex and rely on estimates and projections that are inherently uncertain, may use incomplete, outdated or incorrect data or assumptions and may not operate as intended. To the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such differences may negatively impact our business, ITEM 1A | Risk Factors reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, modeling for man-made catastrophes, such as terrorism and cyber events, is especially difficult and less reliable given such models are in the early stages of development and therefore, not widely adopted or available. For our Life and Retirement companies, significant changes in policyholder behavior assumptions such as lapses, surrenders and withdrawal rates as well as the amount of withdrawals, fund performance, equity market returns and volatility, interest rate levels, the health habits of the insured population, technologies and treatments for disease or disability, the economic environment, or other factors could negatively impact our assumptions and estimates. To the extent that any of our modeling practices do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements will impact our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which are periodically revised. Accordingly, from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). The FASB has revised the accounting standards for certain long-duration insurance contracts. The FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2018-12 – Targeted Improvements to the Accounting for Long-Duration Contracts, which became effective as of January 1, 2023 and significantly changes the accounting measurements and disclosures for long-duration insurance contracts, which primarily relates to our life and annuity products as well as certain accident and health products, among others. The implementation of these changes has imposed and will continue to impose special demands on us in the areas of governance, employee training, internal controls and disclosure and affect how we manage our business, all of which will impact our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. In addition, implementation of the changes could impact our products, in-force management and asset liability management strategies and have other implications on operations and technology. The adoption of this newly issued standard will, and other future accounting standards may, impact our reported consolidated results of operations, liquidity and reported financial condition and may cause investors to perceive greater volatility in our financial results, negatively impacting our level of investor interest and investment. For information regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but are not yet required to be implemented, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If our businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or establish an additional valuation allowance against the deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. We test goodwill at least annually for impairment and conduct interim qualitative assessments on a periodic basis. Impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the “reporting unit” to which the goodwill relates. In 2022, for substantially all of the reporting units we elected to bypass the qualitative assessment of whether goodwill impairment may exist and, therefore, performed quantitative assessments that supported a conclusion that the fair value of all of the reporting units tested exceeded their book value. Our goodwill balance was $3.9 billion at December 31, 2022. If it is determined that goodwill has been impaired, we must write down goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income (loss). These write-downs could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For additional information on goodwill impairment, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Goodwill Impairment and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2022, we had net deferred tax assets, after valuation allowance, of $14.8 billion, related to federal, foreign, and state and local jurisdictions. If, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income, which such action we have taken from time to time. Such charges could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. For additional information on deferred tax assets, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Income Taxes and Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other publicly available documents may include, and members of AIG management may from time to time make and discuss, statements which, to the extent they are not statements of historical or present fact, may constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward‑looking statements are intended to provide management’s current expectations or plans for AIG’s future operating and financial performance, based on assumptions currently believed to be valid and accurate. Forward-looking statements are often preceded by, followed by or include words such as “will,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “expectations,” “intend,” “plan,” “strategy,” “prospects,” “project,” “anticipate,” “should,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “confident,” “focused on achieving,” “view,” “target,” “goal,” “estimate,” and other words of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. These statements may include, among other things, projections, goals and assumptions that relate to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expense reduction efforts, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, anticipated organizational, business or regulatory changes, such as the separation of the Life and Retirement business from AIG, the effect of catastrophic events, both natural and man-made, and macroeconomic and/or geopolitical events, anticipated dispositions, monetization and/or acquisitions of businesses or assets, the successful integration of acquired businesses, management succession and retention plans, exposure to risk, trends in operations and financial results, and other statements that are not historical facts. All forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause AIG’s actual results and financial condition to differ, possibly materially, from the results and financial condition expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause AIG’s actual results to differ, possibly materially, from those in specific projections, goals, assumptions and forward-looking statements include, without limitation: • the effects of economic conditions in the markets in which AIG and its businesses operate in the U.S. and globally and any changes therein, including financial market conditions, macroeconomic trends, fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, inflationary pressures and an economic slowdown or recession, each of which may also be affected by geopolitical events or conflicts, including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine; • the occurrence of catastrophic events, both natural and man-made, including geopolitical events and conflicts, civil unrest and the effects of climate change; • availability of adequate reinsurance or access to reinsurance on acceptable terms; • disruptions in the availability of AIG's or a third party’s information technology infrastructure, including hardware and software, resulting from cyberattacks, data security breaches, or infrastructure vulnerabilities; • AIG's ability to realize expected strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from the separation of Corebridge Financial, Inc. (Corebridge) as well as AIG’s equity market exposure to Corebridge; • concentrations of AIG’s insurance, reinsurance and other risk exposures; • concentrations in AIG’s investment portfolios; • AIG’s reliance on third-party investment managers; • changes in the valuation of AIG’s investments; • AIG’s reliance on third parties to provide certain business and administrative services; • nonperformance or defaults by counterparties, including Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd. (Fortitude Re); • changes in judgments concerning potential cost-saving opportunities; • AIG's ability to effectively implement changes under AIG 200, including the ability to realize cost savings; • AIG's ability to adequately assess risk and estimate related losses as well as the effectiveness of AIG’s enterprise risk management policies and procedures, including with respect to business continuity and disaster recovery plans; • difficulty in marketing and distributing products through current and future distribution channels; • the effectiveness of strategies to retain and recruit key personnel and to implement effective succession plans; • actions by rating agencies with respect to AIG’s credit and financial strength ratings as well as those of its businesses and subsidiaries; • changes to sources of or access to liquidity; • changes in judgments concerning the recognition of deferred tax assets and the impairment of goodwill; • changes in judgments or assumptions concerning insurance underwriting and insurance liabilities; • changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements; • AIG’s ability to successfully dispose of, monetize and/or acquire businesses or assets or successfully integrate acquired businesses; • the effects of sanctions, including those related to the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the failure to comply with those sanctions; • the effects of changes in laws and regulations, including those relating to the regulation of insurance, in the U.S. and other countries in which AIG and its businesses operate; • changes to tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which AIG and its businesses operate; • the outcome of significant legal, regulatory or governmental proceedings; • the impact of COVID-19 and its variants or other pandemics and responses thereto; • AIG’s ability to effectively execute on environmental, social and governance targets and standards; and • such other factors discussed in: – Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report; and – this Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) of this Annual Report. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report, or in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. We are not under any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law. Additional information as to factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements is disclosed from time to time in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Throughout the MD&A, we use certain terms and abbreviations, which are summarized in the Glossary and Acronyms. We have incorporated into this discussion a number of cross-references to additional information included throughout this Annual Report to assist readers seeking additional information related to a particular subject. ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Measures Use of Non-GAAP Measures Throughout this MD&A, we present our financial condition and results of operations in the way we believe will be most meaningful and representative of our business results. Some of the measurements we use are “non-GAAP financial measures” under SEC rules and regulations. GAAP is the acronym for “generally accepted accounting principles” in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures we present may not be comparable to similarly-named measures reported by other companies. We use the following operating performance measures because we believe they enhance the understanding of the underlying profitability of continuing operations and trends of our business segments. We believe they also allow for more meaningful comparisons with our insurance competitors. When we use these measures, reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure are provided on a consolidated basis in the Consolidated Results of Operations section of this MD&A. Book value per common share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets and deferred tax assets (DTA) (Adjusted book value per common share) is used to show the amount of our net worth on a per-common share basis after eliminating items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period including changes in fair value of AIG’s available for sale securities portfolio, foreign currency translation adjustments and U.S. tax attribute deferred tax assets. This measure also eliminates the asymmetrical impact resulting from changes in fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio wherein there is largely no offsetting impact for certain related insurance liabilities. In addition, we adjust for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets held by AIG in support of Fortitude Re’s reinsurance obligations to AIG post deconsolidation of Fortitude Re (Fortitude Re funds withheld assets) since these fair value movements are economically transferred to Fortitude Re. We exclude deferred tax assets representing U.S. tax attributes related to net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits as they have not yet been utilized. Amounts for interim periods are estimates based on projections of full-year attribute utilization. As net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits are utilized, the portion of the DTA utilized is included in these book value per common share metrics. Adjusted book value per common share is derived by dividing total AIG common shareholders’ equity, excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets, and DTA (Adjusted common shareholders’ equity), by total common shares outstanding. Return on common equity – Adjusted after-tax income excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets and DTA (Adjusted return on common equity) is used to show the rate of return on common shareholders’ equity. We believe this measure is useful to investors because it eliminates items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, including changes in fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio, foreign currency translation adjustments and U.S. tax attribute deferred tax assets. This measure also eliminates the asymmetrical impact resulting from changes in fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio wherein there is largely no offsetting impact for certain related insurance liabilities. In addition, we adjust for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets since these fair value movements are economically transferred to Fortitude Re. We exclude deferred tax assets representing U.S. tax attributes related to net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits as they have not yet been utilized. Amounts for interim periods are estimates based on projections of full-year attribute utilization. As net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credits are utilized, the portion of the DTA utilized is included in Adjusted return on common equity. Adjusted return on common equity is derived by dividing actual or annualized adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders by average Adjusted common shareholders’ equity. Adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders is derived by excluding the tax effected adjusted pre-tax income (APTI) adjustments described below, dividends on preferred stock, noncontrolling interest on net realized gains (losses), other non-operating expenses and the following tax items from net income attributable to AIG: • deferred income tax valuation allowance releases and charges; • changes in uncertain tax positions and other tax items related to legacy matters having no relevance to our current businesses or operating performance; and • net tax charge related to the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Adjusted revenues exclude Net realized gains (losses), income from non-operating litigation settlements (included in Other income for GAAP purposes), changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits (included in Net investment income for GAAP purposes) and income from elimination of the international reporting lag. Adjusted revenues is a GAAP measure for our segments. ITEM 7 | Use of Non-GAAP Measures Adjusted pre-tax income is derived by excluding the items set forth below from income from continuing operations before income tax. This definition is consistent across our segments. These items generally fall into one or more of the following broad categories: legacy matters having no relevance to our current businesses or operating performance; adjustments to enhance transparency to the underlying economics of transactions; and measures that we believe to be common to the industry. APTI is a GAAP measure for our segments. Excluded items include the following: • changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits; • changes in benefit reserves and deferred policy acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), and deferred sales inducements (DSI) related to net realized gains and losses; • changes in the fair value of equity securities; • net investment income on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets; • following deconsolidation of Fortitude Re, net realized gains and losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets; • loss (gain) on extinguishment of debt; • all net realized gains and losses except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non- qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication. Earned income on such economic hedges is reclassified from net realized gains and losses to specific APTI line items based on the economic risk being hedged (e.g. net investment income and interest credited to policyholder account balances); • income or loss from discontinued operations; • net loss reserve discount benefit (charge); • pension expense related to lump sum payments to former employees; • net gain or loss on divestitures and other; • non-operating litigation reserves and settlements; • restructuring and other costs related to initiatives designed to reduce operating expenses, improve efficiency and simplify our organization; • the portion of favorable or unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk under retroactive reinsurance agreements and related changes in amortization of the deferred gain; • integration and transaction costs associated with acquiring or divesting businesses; • losses from the impairment of goodwill; • non-recurring costs associated with the implementation of non-ordinary course legal or regulatory changes or changes to accounting principles; and • income from elimination of the international reporting lag. • General Insurance – Ratios: We, along with most property and casualty insurance companies, use the loss ratio, the expense ratio and the combined ratio as measures of underwriting performance. These ratios are relative measurements that describe, for every $100 of net premiums earned, the amount of losses and loss adjustment expenses (which for General Insurance excludes net loss reserve discount), and the amount of other underwriting expenses that would be incurred. A combined ratio of less than 100 indicates underwriting income and a combined ratio of over 100 indicates an underwriting loss. Our ratios are calculated using the relevant segment information calculated under GAAP, and thus may not be comparable to similar ratios calculated for regulatory reporting purposes. The underwriting environment varies across countries and products, as does the degree of litigation activity, all of which affect such ratios. In addition, investment returns, local taxes, cost of capital, regulation, product type and competition can have an effect on pricing and consequently on profitability as reflected in underwriting income and associated ratios. – Accident year loss and accident year combined ratios, as adjusted (Accident year loss ratio, ex-CAT and Accident year combined ratio, ex-CAT): both the accident year loss and accident year combined ratios, as adjusted, exclude catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting. Natural catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events, in each case, having a net impact on AIG in excess of $10 million and man-made catastrophe losses, such as terrorism and civil disorders that exceed the $10 million threshold. We believe that as adjusted ratios are meaningful measures of our underwriting results on an ongoing basis as they exclude catastrophes and the impact of reserve discounting which are outside of management’s control. We also exclude prior year development to provide transparency related to current accident year results. • Life and Retirement – Premiums and deposits: includes direct and assumed amounts received and earned on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and life-contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal life, investment-type annuity contracts, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) funding agreements and mutual funds. We believe the measure of premiums and deposits is useful in understanding customer demand for our products, evolving product trends and our sales performance period over period. Results from discontinued operations are excluded from all of these measures. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the application of accounting policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions about matters, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected. LOSS RESERVES Loss reserves represent the accumulation of estimates of unpaid claims, including estimates for claims incurred but not reported and loss adjustment expenses, less applicable discount. We regularly review and update the methods used to determine loss reserve estimates. Because these estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in estimates are common given that loss trends vary and time is often required for changes in trends to be recognized and confirmed. The estimate of loss reserves relies on several key judgments: • the determination of the actuarial methods used as the basis for these estimates; • the relative weights given to these models by product line; • the underlying assumptions used in these models; and • the determination of the appropriate groupings of similar product lines and, in some cases, the disaggregation of dissimilar losses within a product line. Numerous assumptions are made in determining the best estimate of reserves for each line of business, in consideration of expected ultimate losses, loss cost trends and loss development factors, where appropriate. The importance of any one assumption can vary by both line of business and accident year. Because such assumptions may differ from actual experience, there is potential for significant variation in the development of loss reserves. This estimation uncertainty is particularly relevant for long-tail lines of business. All of our methods to calculate net reserves include assumptions about estimated reinsurance recoveries and their collectability. Reinsurance collectability is evaluated independently of the reserving process and appropriate allowances for uncollectible reinsurance are established. Overview of Loss Reserving Process and Methods Our loss reserves can generally be categorized into two distinct groups: short-tail reserves and long-tail reserves. Short-tail reserves consist principally of U.S. Property and Special Risks, Europe Property and Special Risks, U.S. Personal Insurance, and Europe and Japan Personal Insurance. Long-tail reserves include U.S. Workers’ Compensation, U.S. Excess Casualty, U.S. Other Casualty, U.S. Financial Lines, and UK/Europe Casualty and Financial Lines. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Short-Tail Reserves In short-tail lines of business, such as property or personal insurance, where the nature of these claims tends to be higher frequency with short reporting periods, with volatility arising from occasional severe events, the actual losses reported make up a greater proportion of the ultimate loss estimate. During the first few development quarters of an accident year, the expected ultimate losses generally reflect the average loss costs from a period of preceding accident quarters that have been adjusted for changes in rate and loss cost trends, mix of business, known exposure to unreported losses, or other factors affecting the particular line of business. For more mature quarters, specific loss development methods and/or frequency/severity methods may be used to determine the incurred but not reported (IBNR). IBNR for claims arising from catastrophic events or events of unusual severity would be determined in close collaboration with the claims department’s knowledge of known information, using alternative techniques or expected percentages of ultimate loss emergence based on historical emergence of similar events or claim types. Long-Tail Reserves Estimation of loss reserves for our long-tail business is a complex process and depends on a number of factors, including the product line and volume of business, as well as estimates of reinsurance recoveries. Experience in more recent accident years generally provides limited statistical credibility of reported net losses on long-tail business. That is because in the more recent accident years, a relatively low proportion of estimated ultimate net incurred losses are reported or paid. Therefore, IBNR reserves constitute a relatively high proportion of loss reserves. For our long-tail lines, we generally make actuarial and other assumptions with respect to the following: • Loss cost trend factors, which are used to establish expected loss ratios for subsequent accident years based on the projected loss ratios for prior accident years. • Expected loss ratios, which are used for the latest accident year and, in some cases, for accident years prior to the latest accident year. The expected loss ratio also generally reflects the average loss ratio from prior accident years, adjusted for the loss cost trend and the effect of rate changes and other quantifiable factors on the loss ratio. • Loss development factors, which are used to project the reported losses for each accident year to an ultimate basis. Generally, the actual loss development factors observed from prior accident years would be used as a basis to determine the loss development factors for the subsequent accident years. • Tail factors, which are development factors used for certain long-tail lines of business to project future loss development for periods that extend beyond the available development data. The development of losses to the ultimate loss for a given accident year for these lines may take decades and the projection of ultimate losses for an accident year is very sensitive to the tail factors selected beyond a certain age. We record quarterly changes in loss reserves for each product line of business. The overall change in our loss reserves is based on the sum of the changes for all product lines of business. The quarterly loss reserve changes are based on the estimated current loss ratio for each subset of coverage less any amounts paid. Also, any change in estimated ultimate losses from prior accident years deemed to be necessary based on the results of our latest detailed valuation reviews, large loss analyses, or other analytical techniques, either positive or negative, is reflected in the loss reserve and incurred losses for the current quarter. Differences between actual loss emergence in a given period and our expectations based on prior loss reserve estimates are used to monitor reserve adequacy between detailed valuation reviews and may also influence our judgment with respect to adjusting reserve estimates. Details of the Loss Reserving Process The process of determining the current loss ratio for each product line of business is based on a variety of factors. These include considerations such as: prior accident year and policy year loss ratios; rate changes; and changes in coverage, reinsurance, or mix of business. Other considerations include actual and anticipated changes in external factors such as trends in loss costs, inflation, employment rates or unemployment duration or in the legal and claims environment. The current loss ratio for each product line of business is intended to represent our best estimate after reflecting all relevant factors. At the close of each quarter, the assumptions and data underlying the loss ratios are reviewed to determine whether they remain appropriate. This process includes a review of the actual loss experience in the quarter, actual rate changes achieved, actual changes in reinsurance, quantifiable changes in coverage or mix of business, and changes in other factors that may affect the loss ratio. The loss ratio is changed to reflect the revised estimate if this review suggests that the previously determined loss ratio is no longer appropriate and, generally, shorter tailed lines of business are more likely to experience changes than longer tailed lines for immature accident years unless the information is directionally unfavorable. We conduct a comprehensive loss reserve detailed valuation review at least annually for each product line of business in accordance with Actuarial Standards of Practice. These standards provide that the unpaid loss estimate may be presented in a variety of ways, such as a point estimate, a range of estimates, a point estimate based on the expected value of several reasonable estimates, or a probability distribution of the unpaid loss amount. Our actuarial best estimate for each product line of business represents an expected value generally considering a range of reasonably possible outcomes. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The reserve analysis, globally, for each product line of business is performed by a credentialed actuarial team in collaboration with claims, underwriting, business unit management, risk management and senior management. Our actuaries consider the ongoing applicability of prior data groupings and update numerous assumptions, including the analysis and selection of loss development and loss trend factors. They also determine and select the appropriate actuarial or other methods used to develop our best estimate for each business product line, and may employ multiple methods and assumptions for each product line. These data groupings, accident year weights, method selections and assumptions necessarily change over time as business mix changes, development factors mature and become more credible and loss characteristics evolve. We consult with third-party specialists to help inform our judgments as needed. Through the execution of these detailed valuation reviews an actuarial best estimate of the loss reserve is determined. The sum of these estimates for each product line of business yields an overall actuarial best estimate for that line of business. A critical component of our detailed valuation reviews is an internal peer review of our reserving analyses and conclusions, where actuaries independent of the initial review evaluate the reasonableness of assumptions used, methods selected, and weightings given to different methods. In addition, each detailed valuation review is subjected to a review and challenge process by specialists in our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) group. For certain product lines, we measure sensitivities and determine explicit ranges around the actuarial best estimate using multiple methodologies and varying assumptions. Where we have ranges, we use them to inform our selection of best estimates of loss reserves by product line of business. Our range of reasonable estimates is not intended to cover all possibilities or extreme values and is based on known data and facts at the time of estimation. Actuarial and Other Methods for Our Lines of Business Our actuaries determine the appropriate actuarial methods and segmentation. This determination is based on a variety of factors including the nature of the losses associated with the product line of business, such as the frequency or severity of the claims. In addition to determining the actuarial methods, the actuaries determine the appropriate loss reserve groupings of data. This determination is a judgmental, dynamic process and refinements to the groupings are made every year. The groupings may change to reflect observed or emerging patterns within and across product lines, or to differentiate risk characteristics (for example, size of deductibles and extent of third-party claims specialists used by our insureds). As an example of reserve segmentation, we write many unique subsets of professional liability insurance, which cover different products, industry segments, and coverage structures. While for pricing or other purposes, it may be appropriate to evaluate the profitability of each subset individually, we believe it is appropriate to combine the subsets into larger groups for reserving purposes to produce a greater degree of credibility in the loss experience. This determination of data segmentation and related actuarial methods is assessed, reviewed and updated at least annually. The actuarial methods we use most commonly include paid and incurred loss development methods, expected loss ratio methods, including “Bornhuetter Ferguson” and “Cape Cod,” and frequency/severity models. Loss development methods utilize the actual loss development patterns from prior accident years updated through the current year to project the reported losses to an ultimate basis for all accident years. We also use this information to update our current accident year loss selections. Loss development methods are generally most appropriate for lines of business that exhibit a stable pattern of loss development from one accident year to the next, and for which the components of the product line have similar development characteristics. Expected loss ratio methods rely on the application of an expected loss ratio to the earned premium for the product line of business to determine the liability for loss reserves and loss adjustment expenses. We generally use expected loss ratio methods in cases where the reported loss data lacked sufficient credibility to utilize loss development methods, such as for new product lines of business or for long-tail product lines at early stages of loss development. Frequency/severity models may be used where sufficient frequency counts are available to apply such approaches. A key advantage of loss development methods is that they respond more quickly to any actual changes in loss costs for the product line of business. Therefore, if loss experience is unexpectedly deteriorating or improving, the loss development method gives full credibility to the changing experience. Expected loss ratio methods would be slower to respond to the change, as they would continue to give more weight to a prior expected loss ratio, until enough evidence emerged to modify the expected loss ratio to reflect the changing loss experience. On the other hand, loss development methods have the disadvantage of overreacting to changes in reported losses if the loss experience is anomalous due to the various key factors described above and the inherent volatility in some of the lines. For example, the presence or absence of large losses at the early stages of loss development could cause the loss development method to overreact to the favorable or unfavorable experience by assuming it is a fundamental shift in the development pattern. In these instances, expected loss ratio methods such as Bornhuetter Ferguson have the advantage of recognizing large losses without extrapolating unusual large loss activity onto the unreported portion of the losses for the accident year. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The Cape Cod method is a hybrid between the loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, where the historic loss data and loss development factor assumptions are used to determine the expected loss ratio estimate in the Bornhuetter Ferguson method. Where appropriate, supplemental analysis for the given line of business may be performed in addition to the above described techniques such as Shareholder Class Action (SCA) suit analysis for D&O coverages. Frequency/severity methods generally rely on the determination of an ultimate number of claims and an average severity for each claim for each accident year. Multiplying the estimated ultimate number of claims for each accident year by the expected average severity of each claim produces the estimated ultimate loss for the accident year. Frequency/severity methods generally require a sufficient volume of claims in order for the average severity to be predictable. Average severity for subsequent accident years is generally determined by applying an estimated annual loss cost trend to the estimated average claim severity from prior accident years. In certain cases, a structural approach may also be used to predict the ultimate loss cost. Frequency/severity methods have the advantage that ultimate claim counts can generally be estimated more quickly and accurately than can ultimate losses. Thus, if the average claim severity can be accurately estimated, these methods can more quickly respond to changes in loss experience than other methods. However, for average severity to be predictable, the product line of business must consist of homogenous types of claims for which loss severity trends from one year to the next are reasonably consistent and where there are limited changes to deductible levels or limits. Generally these methods work best for high frequency, low severity product lines of business such as personal auto. However, frequency and severity metrics are also used to test the reasonability of results for other product lines of business and provide indications of underlying trends in the data. In addition, ultimate claim counts can be used as an alternative exposure measure to earned premiums in the Cape Cod method. The estimation of liability for loss reserves and loss adjustment expenses relating to asbestos and environmental pollution losses on insurance policies written many years ago is typically subject to greater uncertainty than other types of losses. This is due to inconsistent court decisions, as well as judicial interpretations and legislative actions that in some cases have tended to broaden coverage beyond the original intent of such policies or have expanded theories of liability. In addition, reinsurance recoverable balances relating to asbestos and environmental loss reserves are subject to greater uncertainty due to the underlying age of the claim, underlying legal issues surrounding the nature of the coverage, and determination of proper policy period. For these reasons, these balances tend to be subject to increased levels of disputes and legal collection activity when actually billed. The insurance industry as a whole is engaged in extensive litigation over these coverage and liability issues and is thus confronted with a continuing uncertainty in its efforts to quantify these exposures. We continue to receive claims asserting injuries and damages from toxic waste, hazardous substances, and other environmental pollutants and alleged claims to cover the cleanup costs of hazardous waste dump sites, referred to collectively as environmental claims, and indemnity claims asserting injuries from asbestos. The vast majority of these asbestos and environmental losses emanate from policies written in 1984 and prior years. Commencing in 1985, standard policies contained absolute exclusions for pollution-related damage and asbestos. The current environmental policies that we specifically price and underwrite for environmental risks on a claims-made basis have been excluded from the analysis. Nevertheless, most of these legacy exposures have been heavily reinsured with very highly rated reinsurers. The majority of our remaining exposures for asbestos and environmental losses are related to excess casualty coverages, not primary coverages. The litigation costs are treated in the same manner as indemnity amounts, with litigation expenses included within the limits of the liability we incur. Individual significant loss reserves, where future litigation costs are reasonably determinable, are established on a case-by-case basis. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Key Assumptions of our Actuarial Methods by Line of Business ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The following sensitivity analysis table summarizes the effect on the loss reserve position of using certain alternative loss cost trend (for accident years where we use expected loss ratio methods) or loss development factor assumptions rather than the assumptions actually used in determining our estimates in the year-end loss reserve analyses in 2022: (a) Tail factor increase of 2.5 percentage points for guaranteed cost business and 3 percentage points for deductible business. (b) Tail factor decrease of 1 percentage point for guaranteed cost business and 1.5 percentage points for deductible business. For additional information on our reserving process and methodology, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS FOR LIFE AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE CONTRACTS Long-duration traditional products primarily include whole life insurance, term life insurance, and certain payout annuities for which the payment period is life-contingent, which include certain of our single premium immediate annuities including pension risk transfer (PRT) business and structured settlements. In addition, these products also include accident and health, and long-term care (LTC) insurance. The LTC block is in run-off and has been fully reinsured with Fortitude Re. For long-duration traditional business, a “lock-in” principle applies. Generally, future policy benefits are payable over an extended period of time and related liabilities are calculated as the present value of future benefits less the present value of future net premiums (portion of the gross premium required to provide for all benefits and expenses). The assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience, unless a loss recognition event occurs. The assumptions include mortality, morbidity, persistency, maintenance expenses, and investment returns. These assumptions are typically consistent with pricing inputs. The assumptions also include margins for adverse deviation, principally for key assumptions such as mortality and interest rates used to discount cash flows, to reflect uncertainty given that actual experience might deviate from these assumptions. Establishing margins at contract inception requires management judgment. The extent of the margin for adverse deviation may vary depending on the uncertainty of the cash flows, which is affected by the volatility of the business and the extent of our experience with the product. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates Loss recognition occurs if observed changes in actual experience or estimates result in projected future losses under loss recognition testing. To determine whether loss recognition exists, we determine whether a future loss is expected based on updated current best estimate assumptions. If loss recognition exists, the assumptions as of the loss recognition test date are locked-in and used in subsequent valuations and the net reserves continue to be subject to loss recognition testing. Because of the long-term nature of many of our liabilities subject to the “lock-in” principle, small changes in certain assumptions may cause large changes in the degree of reserve balances. In particular, changes in estimates of future invested asset returns have a large effect on the degree of reserve balances. Groupings for loss recognition testing are consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring the profitability of the business and are applied by product groupings, that span across issuance years, including traditional life, payout annuities and LTC insurance. Once loss recognition has been recorded for a block of business, the old assumption set is replaced and the assumption set used for the loss recognition would then be subject to the lock-in principle. Our policy is to perform loss recognition testing net of reinsurance. The business ceded to Fortitude Re, is grouped separately. Since 100 percent of the risk has been ceded, no additional loss recognition events are expected to occur unless this business is recaptured. Key judgments made in loss recognition testing include the following: • To determine investment returns used in loss recognition tests, we project future cash flows on the assets supporting the liabilities. The duration of these assets is generally comparable to the duration of the liabilities and such assets are primarily comprised of diversified portfolio of high to medium quality fixed maturity securities, and may also include, to a lesser extent, alternative investments. Our projections include a reasonable allowance for investment expenses and expected credit losses over the projection horizon. A critical assumption in the projection of expected investment income is the assumed net rate of investment return at which excess cash flows are to be reinvested. • For mortality assumptions, base future assumptions take into account industry and our historical experience, as well as expected mortality changes in the future. The latter judgment is based on a combination of historical mortality trends and industry observations, public health and demography specialists that were consulted by AIG’s actuaries and published industry information. • For surrender rates, key judgments involve the correlation between expected increases/decreases in interest rates and increases/decreases in surrender rates. To support this judgment, we compare crediting rates on our products to expected rates on competing products under different interest rate scenarios. • Significant unrealized appreciation on investments in a low interest rate environment may cause DAC to be adjusted and additional future policy benefit liabilities to be recorded through a charge directly to accumulated other comprehensive income (changes related to unrealized appreciation or depreciation of investments). These charges are included, net of tax, with the change in net unrealized appreciation of investments. In applying changes related to unrealized appreciation of investments, the Company overlays unrealized gains and other changes related to unrealized appreciation of investments onto loss recognition tests. For additional information on impact of changes related to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) to investments, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For universal life policies with secondary guarantees, we recognize certain liabilities in addition to policyholder account balances. For universal life policies with secondary guarantees, as well as other universal life policies for which profits followed by losses are expected at contract inception, a liability is recognized based on a benefit ratio of (i) the present value of total expected payments, in excess of the account value, over the life of the contract, divided by (ii) the present value of total expected assessments over the life of the contract. Universal life account balances are reported in Policyholder contract deposits, while these additional liabilities related to universal life products are reported within Future Policy Benefits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. These additional liabilities are also adjusted to reflect the effect of unrealized gains or losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale on accumulated assessments, with related changes recognized through Other comprehensive income (loss). The primary policyholder behavior assumptions for these liabilities include mortality, lapses and premium persistency. The primary capital market assumptions used for the liability for universal life secondary guarantees include discount rates and net earned rates. For additional information on actuarial assumption updates, see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC – Update of Actuarial Assumptions and Models – Investment-Oriented Products. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates GUARANTEED BENEFIT FEATURES OF VARIABLE ANNUITY, FIXED ANNUITY AND FIXED INDEX ANNUITY PRODUCTS Variable annuity products offered by our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement segments offer guaranteed benefit features. These guaranteed features include guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDB) that are payable in the event of death and living benefits that guarantee lifetime withdrawals regardless of fixed account and separate account value performance. Living benefit features primarily include guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWB). For additional information on these features, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The liability for GMDB, which is recorded in future policy benefits, represents the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with the excess recognized ratably through Policyholder benefits over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments. The liabilities for variable annuity GMWB, which are recorded in Policyholder contract deposits, are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in net realized gains (losses). Certain of our fixed annuity and fixed index annuity contracts, which are not offered through separate accounts, contain optional GMWB benefits. Different versions of these GMWB riders contain different guarantee provisions. The liability for GMWB benefits in fixed annuity and fixed index annuity contracts for which the rider guarantee is considered to be clearly and closely related to the host contract are recorded in future policy benefits. This GMWB liability represents the expected value of benefits in excess of the projected account value, with the excess recognized ratably over the accumulation period based on total expected assessments, through Policyholder benefits. For rider guarantees in certain fixed index annuity contracts  that are linked to equity indices that are considered to be embedded derivatives that are not clearly and closely related to the host contract, the GMWB liability is recorded in Policyholder contract deposits and measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in net realized gains (losses). Our exposure to the guaranteed amounts is equal to the amount by which the contract holder’s account balance is below the amount provided by the guaranteed feature. A deferred annuity contract may include more than one type of guaranteed benefit feature; for example, it may have both a GMDB and a GMWB. However, a policyholder can generally only receive payout from one guaranteed feature on a contract containing a death benefit and a living benefit, i.e., the features are generally mutually exclusive (except a surviving spouse who has a rider to potentially collect both a GMDB upon their spouse’s death and a GMWB during his or her lifetime). A policyholder cannot purchase more than one living benefit on one contract. Declines in the equity markets, increased volatility and a low interest rate environment increase our exposure to potential benefits under the guaranteed features, leading to an increase in the liabilities for those benefits. For sensitivity analysis which includes the sensitivity of reserves for guaranteed benefit features to changes in the assumptions for interest rates, equity returns, volatility, and mortality, see – Estimated Gross Profits to Value Deferred Acquisition Costs and Unearned Revenue for Investment-Oriented Products. For additional information on market risk management related to these product features, see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The reserving methodology and assumptions used to measure the liabilities of our two largest guaranteed benefit features are presented in the following table: ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates VALUATION OF EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES FOR FIXED INDEX ANNUITY AND LIFE PRODUCTS Fixed index annuity and life products provide growth potential based in part on the performance of a market index. Certain fixed index annuity products offer optional guaranteed benefit features similar to those offered on variable annuity products. Policyholders may elect to rebalance among the various accounts within the product at specified renewal dates. At the end of each index term, we generally have the opportunity to re-price the indexed component by establishing different participation rates or caps on equity index credited rates. The index crediting feature of these products results in the recognition of an embedded derivative that is required to be bifurcated from the host contract and carried at fair value with changes in the fair value of the liabilities recorded in Net realized gains (losses). Option pricing models are used to estimate fair value, taking into account assumptions for future equity index growth rates, volatility of the equity index, future interest rates, and our ability to adjust the participation rate and the cap on equity index credited rates in light of market conditions and policyholder behavior assumptions. For additional information on market risk management related to these product features, see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs. ESTIMATED GROSS PROFITS TO VALUE DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS AND UNEARNED REVENUE FOR INVESTMENT–ORIENTED PRODUCTS Policy acquisition costs and policy issuance costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new or renewal of existing insurance contracts related to universal life insurance and investment-type products, for example, variable, fixed and fixed index annuities (collectively, investment-oriented products) are generally deferred and amortized, with interest, in relation to the incidence of estimated gross profits to be realized over the expected lives of the contracts, except in instances where significant negative gross profits are expected in one or more periods. Investment oriented products have a long duration and a disclosed crediting interest rate. Total gross profits include both actual gross profits and estimates of gross profits for future periods. Estimated gross profits include current and projected interest rates, net investment income and spreads, net realized gains and losses, fees, surrender rates, mortality experience and equity market returns and volatility. In estimating future gross profits, lapse assumptions require judgment and can have a material impact on DAC amortization. For fixed index annuity contracts, the future spread between investment income and interest credited to policyholders is a significant judgment, particularly in a low interest rate environment. We regularly evaluate our assumptions used for estimated gross profits. If the assumptions used for estimated gross profits change, DAC and related reserves, including VOBA, DSI, guaranteed benefit reserves and unearned revenue reserve (URR), are recalculated using the new assumptions, and any resulting adjustment is included in income. Updating such assumptions may result in acceleration of amortization in some products and deceleration of amortization in other products. In estimating future gross profits for variable annuity products as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 , a long-term annual asset growth assumption of 7.0 percent (before expenses that reduce the asset base from which future fees are projected) was applied to estimate the future growth in assets and related asset-based fees. In determining the asset growth rate, the effect of short-term fluctuations in the equity markets is partially mitigated through the use of a reversion to the mean methodology, whereby short-term asset growth above or below the long-term annual rate assumption impacts the growth assumption applied to the five-year period subsequent to the current balance sheet date. The reversion to the mean methodology allows us to maintain our long-term growth assumptions, while also giving consideration to the effect of actual investment performance. When actual performance significantly deviates from the annual long-term growth assumption, as evidenced by growth assumptions for the five-year reversion to the mean period falling below a certain rate (floor) or above a certain rate (cap) for a sustained period, judgment may be applied to revise or “unlock” the growth rate assumptions to be used for both the five-year reversion to the mean period as well as the long-term annual growth assumption applied to subsequent periods. For additional information, see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC – DAC – Reversion to the Mean. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates The following table summarizes the sensitivity of changes in certain assumptions for DAC and DSI, embedded derivatives and other reserves related to guaranteed benefits and URR, measured as the related hypothetical impact on December 31, 2022 balances and the resulting hypothetical impact on pre-tax income, before hedging. (a) Represents the net impact of a one percent increase or decrease in long-term equity returns for GMDB reserves and net impact of a one percent increase or decrease in the S&P 500 index on the value of the GMWB embedded derivative. (b) Represents the net impact of a one percentage point increase or decrease in equity volatility. (c) Represents the net impact of one percent parallel shift in the yield curve on the value of the GMWB embedded derivative. Does not represent interest rate spread compression on investment-oriented products. The sensitivity ranges of 10 basis points, one percent and 10 percent are included for illustrative purposes only and do not reflect the changes in net investment spreads, equity return, volatility, interest rate, mortality or lapse used by AIG in its fair value analyses or estimates of future gross profits to value DAC and related reserves. Changes different from those illustrated may occur in any period and by different products. The analysis of DAC, embedded derivatives and other reserves related to guaranteed benefits, and unearned revenue reserve is a dynamic process that considers all relevant factors and assumptions described above. We estimate each of the above factors individually, without the effect of any correlation among the key assumptions. An assessment of sensitivity associated with changes in any single assumption would not necessarily be an indicator of future results. The effects on pre-tax income in the sensitivity analysis table above do not reflect the related effects from our economic hedging program, which utilizes derivative and other financial instruments and is designed so that changes in value of those instruments move in the opposite direction of changes in the guaranteed benefit embedded derivative liabilities. For additional information on guaranteed benefit features of our variable annuities and the related hedging program, see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs, Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC – Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results, and Notes 4, 8 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on actuarial assumption updates, see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC – Update of Actuarial Assumptions and Models – Investment-Oriented Products. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates REINSURANCE ASSETS In the ordinary course of business, our insurance companies may use both treaty and facultative reinsurance to minimize their net loss exposure to any single catastrophic loss event or to an accumulation of losses from a number of smaller events or to provide greater diversification of our businesses. Reinsurance assets include the balances due from reinsurance and insurance companies under the terms of our reinsurance agreements for paid and unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, ceded unearned premiums and ceded future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts and benefits paid and unpaid. The estimation of reinsurance recoverables involves a significant amount of judgment. Reinsurance assets include reinsurance recoverables on unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses that are estimated as part of our loss reserving process and, consequently, are subject to similar judgments and uncertainties as the estimation of gross loss reserves. For additional information on reinsurance, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. A qualitative assessment may be performed, considering whether events or circumstances exist that lead to a determination that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of an operating segment is less than its carrying value. If management elects to perform a quantitative assessment to determine recoverability of carrying value or is compelled to do so based on the results of a qualitative assessment, the estimate of fair value involves applying one or a combination of common valuation approaches. These include discounted expected future cash flows, market-based earnings multiples and external appraisals, among other methods, all of which require management judgment and are subject to uncertainty, primarily as it relates to assumptions around business growth, earnings projections, and cost of capital. For additional information on goodwill impairment, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Estimates and Assumptions and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES ON CERTAIN INVESTMENTS We maintain an allowance for the expected lifetime credit losses of commercial and residential mortgage loans and available for sale securities. The sufficiency of this allowance is reviewed quarterly using both quantitative and qualitative considerations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties. These considerations and the overall methodology used to estimate the allowance for credit losses are discussed in more detail in Note 5 and Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for Available for sale securities and Commercial and residential loans, respectively. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS OF CERTAIN FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are measured and classified in a hierarchy for disclosure purposes consisting of three levels based on the observability of inputs available in the marketplace used to measure the fair value. We classify fair value measurements for certain assets and liabilities as Level 3 when they require significant unobservable inputs in their valuation. We consider unobservable inputs to be those for which market data is not available. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement of an asset or liability requires judgment. For additional information about the valuation methodologies of financial instruments measured at fair value, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Critical Accounting Estimates INCOME TAXES Deferred income taxes represent the tax effect of the differences between the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Our assessment of net deferred income taxes represents management’s best estimate of the tax consequences of various events and transactions, which can themselves be based on other accounting estimates, resulting in incremental uncertainty in the estimation process. Deferred Tax Asset Recoverability The evaluation of the recoverability of our deferred tax asset and the need for a valuation allowance requires us to weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. As such, changes in tax laws in countries where we transact business can impact our deferred tax asset valuation allowance. We consider multiple factors to reliably estimate future taxable income so we can determine the extent of our ability to realize net operating losses, foreign tax credits, realized capital loss and other carryforwards. These factors include forecasts of future income for each of our businesses, which incorporate forecasts of future statutory income for our insurance companies, and actual and planned business and operational changes, both of which include assumptions about future macroeconomic and AIG-specific conditions and events. We subject the forecasts to stresses of key assumptions and evaluate the effect on tax attribute utilization. We also apply stresses to our assumptions about the effectiveness of relevant prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In performing our assessment of recoverability, we consider tax laws governing the utilization of net operating loss, capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards in each applicable jurisdiction. These tax laws are subject to change, resulting in incremental uncertainty in our assessment of recoverability. Uncertain Tax Positions Uncertain tax positions represent AIG’s liability for income taxes on tax years subject to review by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or other tax authorities. We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained, based on technical merits, upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities before any part of the benefit can be recognized in the financial statements. A tax position is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. The completion of review, or the expiration of federal statute of limitations for a given audit period could result in an adjustment to the liability for income taxes. For a discussion of our framework for assessing the recoverability of our deferred tax asset and other tax topics, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Executive Summary Executive Summary OVERVIEW This overview of the MD&A highlights selected information and may not contain all of the information that is important to current or potential investors in our securities. You should read this Annual Report in its entirety for a more detailed description of events, trends, uncertainties, risks and critical accounting estimates affecting us. For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Separation of Life and Retirement Business On September 19, 2022, AIG closed on the initial public offering (IPO) of 80 million shares of Corebridge Financial, Inc. (Corebridge) common stock at a public offering price of $21.00 per share, representing 12.4 percent of Corebridge's common stock. Corebridge is the holding company for AIG’s Life and Retirement business. The aggregate gross proceeds of the offering to AIG, before deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other expenses payable by AIG, were approximately $1.7 billion. After consideration of underwriting discounts, commissions and other related expenses payable by AIG, AIG recorded $608 million as an increase in AIG’s shareholder’s equity. Relationship with Blackstone Inc. In November 2021, AIG and Blackstone Inc. (Blackstone) completed the acquisition by Blackstone of a 9.9 percent equity stake in Corebridge. In 2021, AIG entered into a long-term asset management relationship with Blackstone, pursuant to which Blackstone is initially managing $50 billion of Corebridge’s existing investment portfolio, with that amount increasing to an aggregate of $92.5 billion over the next five years. On December 15, 2021, AIG and Blackstone Real Estate Income Trust (BREIT), a long-term, perpetual capital vehicle affiliated with Blackstone, completed the acquisition by BREIT of AIG’s interests in a U.S. affordable housing portfolio. The historical results of the U.S. affordable housing portfolio were reported in our Life and Retirement operating segments. Our Investment Management Agreements with BlackRock Since April 2022, AIG and Corebridge insurance company subsidiaries have entered into separate investment management agreements with BlackRock. Certain additional insurance company subsidiaries will also enter into such investment management agreements over the coming months. We have since transferred the management of approximately $162 billion of our investments in liquid fixed income and certain private placement assets, including $98 billion of the Corebridge investment portfolio, to BlackRock under such investment management agreements as of December 31, 2022. The investment management agreements contain detailed investment guidelines and reporting requirements. These agreements also contain reasonable and customary representations and warranties, standard of care, expense reimbursement, liability, indemnity and other provisions. The investment management agreements continue unless terminated by either party on 45 days’ notice or by us immediately for cause. We continue to be responsible for our overall investment portfolio, including decisions surrounding asset allocation, risk composition and investment strategy. Sale of Certain AIG Life and Retirement Retail Mutual Funds Business On July 16, 2021, AIG announced the closing of the sale of certain assets of Life and Retirement's Retail Mutual Funds business to Touchstone Investments (Touchstone), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Western & Southern Financial Group. Upon closing, the twelve retail mutual funds managed by SunAmerica Asset Management, LLC (SAAMCo), with $6.8 billion in assets, were reorganized into Touchstone funds. Sale of Fortitude Holdings On June 2, 2020, we completed the sale of a majority of the interests in Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC (Fortitude Holdings) to Carlyle FRL, L.P. (Carlyle FRL), an investment fund advised by an affiliate of The Carlyle Group Inc. (Carlyle), and T&D United Capital Co., Ltd. (T&D), a subsidiary of T&D Holdings, Inc., under the terms of a membership interest purchase agreement entered into on November 25, 2019 by and among AIG, Fortitude Holdings, Carlyle FRL, Carlyle, T&D and T&D Holdings, Inc. (the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale). As a result of completion of the Majority Interest Fortitude Sale, AIG received $2.2 billion of proceeds and recorded a total after-tax reduction to total AIG shareholders’ equity of $4.3 billion related to the sale of the majority interest in and deconsolidation of Fortitude Holdings in the second quarter of 2020. ITEM 7 | Executive Summary AIG’S OUTLOOK – INDUSTRY AND ECONOMIC FACTORS Our business is affected by industry and economic factors such as interest rates, currency exchange rates, credit and equity market conditions, catastrophic claims events, regulation, tax policy, competition, and general economic, market and political conditions. We continued to operate under challenging market conditions in 2022, characterized by factors such as the impact of COVID-19 and the related governmental and societal responses, rising interest rates, inflationary pressures, an uneven global economic recovery and global trade tensions. Responses by central banks and monetary authorities with respect to inflation, growth concerns and other macroeconomic factors have also affected global exchange rates and volatility. Russia/Ukraine Conflict The Russia/Ukraine conflict began in February 2022. The conflict has and may continue to have a significant impact on the global macroeconomic and geopolitical environments, including increased volatility in capital and commodity markets, rapid changes to regulatory conditions around the globe including the use of sanctions, operational challenges for multinational corporations, inflationary pressures and an increased risk of cybersecurity incidents. The conflict is evolving and has the potential to adversely affect our business and results of operations from an investment, underwriting and operational perspective. While we believe we have taken appropriate actions to minimize related risk, we continue to monitor potential exposure and operational impacts, as well as any actual and potential claims activity. The ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including scope, severity and duration, the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken (including the application of sanctions), and court decisions, if any, rendered in response to those actions. Impact of Changes in the Interest Rate Environment and Equity Markets Key U.S. benchmark rates continued to rise during 2022 as markets reacted to heightened inflation measures, geopolitical risk, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System implementing multiple increases to short term interest rates. As of December 31, 2022, due to increases in benchmark rates, combined with general widening of credit spreads, the yield on new investments has generally exceeded the yield on asset maturities and redemptions. The yield pick-up of new investments over the yields on asset maturities and redemptions averaged 70 basis points during 2022. This combined with resetting of coupon rates on floating rate securities and loans has steadily improved the overall portfolio yields. However, the key benchmark rates remain highly volatile. We actively manage our exposure to the interest rate environment through portfolio selection and asset-liability management, including spread management strategies for our investment-oriented products and economic hedging of interest rate risk from guarantee features in our variable and fixed index annuities, but we may not be able to fully mitigate our interest rate risk by matching exposure of our assets relative to our liabilities. Equity Markets Our financial results are impacted by the performance of equity markets, which impacts the performance of our alternative investment portfolio, fee income, net amount at risk, policyholder benefits and DAC. For instance, in our variable annuity separate accounts, mutual fund assets and brokerage and advisory assets, we generally earn fee income based on the account value, which fluctuates with the equity markets as a significant amount of these assets are invested in equity funds. The impact of equity market returns, both increases and decreases, is reflected in our results due to the impact on the account value and the fair values of equity-exposed securities in our Life and Retirement investment portfolio. In Life and Retirement, hedging costs could also be significantly impacted by changes in the level of equity markets as rebalancing and option costs are tied to the equity market volatility, and we may be required to post additional collateral when equity markets are higher. These hedging costs are mostly offset by our rider fees that are tied to the level of the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index. As rebalancing and option costs increase or decrease, the rider fees will increase or decrease partially offsetting the hedging costs incurred. Alternative investments include private equity funds which are generally reported on a one-quarter lag. Accordingly, changes in valuations driven by equity market conditions during the fourth quarter of 2022 may impact the private equity investments in the alternative investments portfolio in the first quarter of 2023. Annuity Sales and Surrenders The rising rate environment and our partnership with Blackstone have provided a strong tailwind for fixed annuity sales with sales in the three to five‑year products significantly increasing. Continued rising interest rates could create the potential for increased sales, but also drives higher surrenders. Fixed annuities have surrender charge periods, generally in the three-to-seven year range. Fixed index annuities have surrender charge periods, generally in the five-to-ten year range, and within our Group Retirement segment, certain of our fixed investment options are subject to other withdrawal restrictions, which may help mitigate increased early surrenders in a rising rate environment. In addition, older contracts that have higher minimum interest rates and continue to be attractive to contract holders have driven better than expected persistency in fixed annuities, although the reserves for such contracts have ITEM 7 | Executive Summary continued to decrease over time in amount and as a percentage of the total annuity portfolio. We closely monitor surrenders of fixed annuities as contracts with lower minimum interest rates come out of the surrender charge period. Reinvestment and Spread Management We actively monitor fixed income markets, including the level of interest rates, credit spreads and the shape of the yield curve. We also frequently review our interest rate assumptions and actively manage the crediting rates used for new and in-force business. Business strategies continue to evolve and we attempt to maintain profitability of the overall business in light of the interest rate environment. A rising interest rate environment results in improved yields on new investments and improves margins for our Life and Retirement business while also making certain products, such as fixed annuities, more attractive to potential customers. However, the rising rate environment has resulted in lower values on general and separate accounts assets, mutual fund assets and brokerage and advisory assets that hold investments in fixed income assets. For additional information on our investment and asset-liability management strategies, see Investments. For investment-oriented products, including universal life insurance, and variable, fixed and fixed index annuities, in our Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets businesses, our spread management strategies include disciplined pricing and product design for new business, modifying or limiting the sale of products that do not achieve targeted spreads, using asset-liability management to match assets to liabilities to the extent practicable, and actively managing crediting rates to help mitigate some of the pressure on investment spreads. Renewal crediting rate management is done under contractual provisions that were designed to allow crediting rates to be reset at pre-established intervals in accordance with state and federal laws and subject to minimum crediting rate guarantees. We expect to continue to adjust crediting rates on in-force business, as appropriate, to be responsive to a rising rate environment. As interest rates rise, we may need to raise crediting rates on in-force business for competitive and other reasons, potentially offsetting a portion of the additional investment income resulting from investing in a higher interest rate environment. Of the aggregate fixed account values of our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement annuity products, 64 percent were crediting at the contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate as of December 31, 2022. The percentage of fixed account values of our annuity products that are currently crediting at rates above one percent were 55 percent and 58 percent as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In the universal life products in our Life Insurance business, 62 percent and 67 percent of the account values were crediting at the contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. These businesses continue to focus on pricing discipline and strategies to manage the minimum guaranteed interest crediting rates offered on new sales in the context of regulatory requirements and competitive positioning. The following table presents fixed annuity and universal life account values of our Individual Retirement, Group Retirement and Life Insurance operating segments by contractual minimum guaranteed interest rate and current crediting rates, excluding balances ceded to Fortitude Re: ITEM 7 | Executive Summary * Individual Retirement and Group Retirement amounts shown include fixed options within variable annuity products. General Insurance Our net investment income is significantly impacted by market interest rates as well as the deployment of asset allocation strategies to manage duration, enhance yield and manage interest rate risk. As interest rates increase, so too does our ability to reinvest future cash inflows from premiums, as well as sales and maturities of existing investments, at more favorable rates. For additional information on our investment and asset-liability management strategies, see Investments. While the impact of rising interest rates on our General Insurance segment increases the benefit of investment income, the current and medium-term inflationary environment may also translate into higher loss cost trends. We monitor these trends closely, particularly loss cost trend uncertainty, to ensure that not only our pricing, but also our loss reserving assumptions are proactive to, and considerate of, current and future economic conditions. For our General Insurance segment loss reserves, rising interest rates may favorably impact the statutory net loss reserve discount for workers’ compensation and its associated amortization. Impact of Currency Volatility Currency volatility remains acute. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Euro, British pound and the Japanese yen (the Major Currencies) impacts income for our businesses with substantial international operations. In particular, growth trends in net premiums written reported in U.S. dollars can differ significantly from those measured in original currencies. The net effect on underwriting results, however, is significantly mitigated, as both revenues and expenses are similarly affected. These currencies may continue to fluctuate, especially as a result of central bank responses to inflation, concerns regarding future economic growth and other macroeconomic factors, and such fluctuations will affect net premiums written growth trends reported in U.S. dollars, as well as financial statement line item comparability. General Insurance businesses are transacted in most major foreign currencies. The following table presents the average of the quarterly weighted average exchange rates of the Major Currencies, which have the most significant impact on our businesses: Unless otherwise noted, references to the effects of foreign exchange in the General Insurance discussion of results of operations are with respect to movements in the Major Currencies included in the preceding table. ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations The following section provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations on a reported basis for the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022. Factors that relate primarily to a specific business are discussed in more detail within the business segment operations section. For information regarding the Critical Accounting Estimates that affect our results of operations, see Critical Accounting Estimates. For information regarding AIG’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 and the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Consolidated Results of Operations of our 2021 Annual Report. The following table presents our consolidated results of operations and other key financial metrics: ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO AIG COMMON SHAREHOLDERS COMPARISON FOR 2022 AND 2021 Net income attributable to AIG common shareholders increased $888 million due to the following, on a pre-tax basis: • an increase in Net realized gains on Fortitude Re funds withheld embedded derivative of $8.1 billion driven by interest rate movements, partially offset by losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets of $486 million in 2022 compared to a gain of $1.0 billion in 2021; • higher underwriting income in General Insurance of $1.1 billion, including $86 million attributable to eliminating the international reporting lag, reflecting the continued earn-in of positive rate change, strong renewal retentions and new business production, as well as increased favorable prior year development and lower catastrophe losses. Underwriting income was negatively impacted by unfavorable movements in foreign exchange. For additional information on the elimination of the international reporting lag, see Note 1 to the to the Consolidated Financial Statements. • lower interest expense of $180 million primarily driven by interest savings of $225 million from $9.4 billion debt repurchases, through cash tender offers and debt redemptions in 2022 as well as $92 million from $3.6 billion of debt repurchases, through cash tender offers and debt redemptions in 2021, as well as interest savings of $100 million on debt borrowing due to the sale of Affordable Housing in 2021. These decreases are partially offset by interest expense of $240 million on $6.5 billion Corebridge senior unsecured notes, $1.5 billion draw down on Corebridge DDTL facility and $1.0 billion junior subordinated debt issued by Corebridge in 2022. The increase in Net income attributable to AIG common shareholders was partially offset by the following, on a pre-tax basis: • lower net gains on divestitures and other due to loss of $82 million in 2022 compared with net gains on divestitures and other in 2021 due to the recognition of $ 3.0 billion gain from the sale of the Affordable Housing portfolio and $102 million gain from the sale of certain assets of the Retail Mutual Funds business in 2021. • lower net investment income of $2.8 billion primarily driven by lower returns on our alternative investments of $1.9 billion and declines in fair value of fixed maturity securities where we elected the fair value option of $810 million as a result of the higher rate environment and negative equity market performance. • higher income attributable to noncontrolling interest of $464 million driven by the sale of 9.9 percent interest of Corebridge to Blackstone in December 2021 and the 12.4 percent IPO of Corebridge in September 2022. • a decrease in Net realized gains excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets and embedded derivative of $245 million, driven by a $2.9 billion increase in derivative and hedge activity and gains on variable annuity embedded derivatives, net of hedging, partially offset by losses on sales of securities of $1.1 billion and sales of alternative investments and real estate of $795 million, unfavorable movement in the allowance for credit losses on fixed maturity securities and loans of $421 million and absence of realized gains related to Affordable Housing portfolio sale in 2021 of $219 million. The $830 million increase in income tax expense was primarily attributable to higher income from continuing operations. INCOME TAX EXPENSE ANALYSIS For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the effective tax rate on income (loss) from continuing operations was 21.0 percent and 18.0 percent, respectively. For additional information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations U.S. TAX LAW CHANGES On August 16, 2022, President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) of 2022 (H.R. 5376), which finances climate and energy provisions and an extension of enhanced subsidies under the Affordable Care Act. Key provisions include a 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax (CAMT) on adjusted financial statement income for corporations with average profits over $1 billion over a three-year period, a 1 percent stock buyback tax, increased IRS enforcement funding, and Medicare's new ability to negotiate prescription drug prices. CAMT and the stock buyback tax are effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022. The tax provisions of IRA are not expected to have a material impact on AIG’s financial results. However, the CAMT may impact our U.S. cash tax liabilities. For additional information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents a reconciliation of Book value per common share to Adjusted book value per common share, which is a non-GAAP measure. For additional information, see Use of Non-GAAP Measures. The following table presents a reconciliation of Return on common equity to Adjusted return on common equity, which is a non-GAAP measure. For additional information, see Use of Non-GAAP Measures. The following table presents a reconciliation of revenues to adjusted revenues: ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations (a) Includes all net realized gains and losses except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication and net realized gains and losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets. (b) For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents a reconciliation of pre-tax income (loss)/net income (loss) attributable to AIG to adjusted pre-tax income (loss)/adjusted after-tax income (loss) attributable to AIG: (a) The years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 include the completion of audit activity by the IRS. The year ended December 31, 2020 also includes the write-down of net operating loss deferred tax assets in certain foreign jurisdictions, which is offset by valuation allowance release. ITEM 7 | Consolidated Results of Operations (b) The years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 include valuation allowance established against a portion of certain tax attribute carryforwards of AIG's U.S. federal consolidated income tax group, as well as valuation allowance changes in certain foreign jurisdictions. (c) Includes all net realized gains and losses except earned income (periodic settlements and changes in settlement accruals) on derivative instruments used for non-qualifying (economic) hedging or for asset replication and net realized gains and losses on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets. (d) For additional information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (e) Includes the portion of equity interest of non-operating income of Corebridge and consolidated investment entities that AIG does not own. Prior to June 2, 2020, noncontrolling interests was primarily due to the 19.9 percent investment in Fortitude Holdings by an affiliate of Carlyle, which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2018. (f) For the year ended December 31, 2020, because we reported a net loss attributable to AIG common shareholders, all common stock equivalents are anti-dilutive and are therefore excluded from the calculation of diluted shares and diluted per share amounts. However, because we reported adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders, the calculation of adjusted after-tax income per diluted share attributable to AIG common shareholders includes 5,401,597 dilutive shares for the year ended December 31, 2020. PRE-TAX INCOME (LOSS) COMPARISON FOR 2022 AND 2021 Pre-tax income was $14.3 billion in 2022 compared to $12.1 billion in 2021. For the main drivers impacting AIG’s results of operations, see Net Income (Loss) Attributable to AIG Common Shareholders above. ADJUSTED PRE-TAX INCOME (LOSS) COMPARISON FOR 2022 AND 2021 Adjusted pre-tax income (loss) was $5.1 billion in 2022 compared to $5.9 billion in 2021. For the main drivers impacting AIG’s adjusted pre-tax income (loss), see Business Segment Operations - General Insurance, Business Segment Operations - Life and Retirement, and Business Segment Operations - Other Operations. Business Segment Operations Our business operations consist of General Insurance, Life and Retirement, and Other Operations. General Insurance consists of two operating segments: North America and International. Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments: Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. Other Operations is primarily comprised of corporate, our institutional asset management business and consolidation and eliminations. For information regarding AIG’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Business Segment Operations of our 2021 Annual Report. The following table summarizes Adjusted pre-tax income (loss) from our business segment operations. See also Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance Property: Products include commercial and industrial property, including business interruption, as well as package insurance products and services that cover exposures to man-made and natural disasters. Liability: Products include general liability, environmental, commercial automobile liability, workers’ compensation, excess casualty and crisis management insurance products. Casualty also includes risk-sharing and other customized structured programs for large corporate and multinational customers. Financial Lines: Products include professional liability insurance for a range of businesses and risks, including directors and officers, mergers and acquisitions, fidelity, employment practices, fiduciary liability, cyber risk, kidnap and ransom, and errors and omissions insurance. Specialty: Products include marine, energy-related property insurance products, aviation, political risk, trade credit, trade finance and portfolio solutions, as well as our global reinsurance business AIG Re and Crop Risk Services which includes multi-peril and hail coverages. Accident & Health: Products include voluntary and sponsor-paid personal accident and supplemental health products for individuals, employees, associations and other organizations, as well as a broad range of travel insurance products and services for leisure and business travelers. Personal Lines: Products include personal auto and personal property in selected markets, comprehensive extended warranty, device protection insurance, home warranty and related services, and insurance for high net-worth individuals offered through AIG’s Private Client Group (PCG) in the U.S. that covers auto, homeowners, umbrella, yacht, fine art and collections. General Insurance products in North America and International markets are distributed through various channels, including captive and independent agents, brokers, affinity partners, airlines and travel agents, and retailers. Our global platform enables writing multinational and cross-border risks in both Commercial Lines and Personal Insurance. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance Profitable Growth: Build on our high-quality portfolio by focusing on targeted growth through continued underwriting discipline, improved retentions and new business development. Deploy capital efficiently to act opportunistically and achieve growth in profitable lines, geographies and customer segments, while taking a disciplined underwriting approach to exposure management, terms and conditions and rate change to achieve our risk/return hurdles. Continue to be open to inorganic growth opportunities in profitable markets and segments to expand our capabilities and footprint. Reinsurance Optimization: Strategically partner with reinsurers to effectively manage exposure to losses arising from frequency of large catastrophic events and severity from individual risk losses. We strive to optimize our reinsurance program to manage volatility and protect the balance sheet from tail events and unpredictable net losses in support of our profitable growth objectives. Underwriting Excellence: Continue to enhance portfolio optimization through strength of underwriting framework and guidelines as well as clear communication of risk appetite and rate adequacy. Empower and increase accountability of the underwriter and continue to integrate underwriting, claims and actuarial to enable better decision making. Focus on enhancing risk selection, driving consistent underwriting best practices and building robust monitoring standards to improve underwriting results. General Insurance operates in a highly competitive industry against global, national and local insurers and reinsurers and underwriting syndicates in specific market areas and product types. Insurance companies compete through a combination of risk acceptance criteria, product pricing, service levels and terms and conditions. We serve our business and individual customers on a global basis – from the largest multinational corporations to local businesses and individuals. General Insurance seeks to differentiate itself in the markets where we participate by providing leading expertise and insight to clients, distribution partners and other stakeholders, delivering underwriting excellence and value-driven insurance solutions and providing high quality, tailored end-to-end support to stakeholders. In doing so, we leverage our world-class global franchise, multinational capabilities, balance sheet strength and financial flexibility. Our challenges include: • ensuring adequate business pricing given passage of time to reporting and settlement for insurance business, particularly with respect to long-tail Commercial Lines exposures; • impact of social and economic inflation on claim frequency and severity; and • volatility in claims arising from natural and man-made catastrophes and other aggregations of risk exposure. Below is a discussion of the industry and economic factors impacting our operating segments: The results of General Insurance for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 reflect continued strong performance from our Commercial Lines portfolio and focused execution on our portfolio management strategies within Personal Insurance. Across our North America and International Commercial Lines of business we have seen increased demand for our insurance products with continued positive rate change and improvement in terms and conditions. We continue to monitor inflationary impacts resulting from government stimulus in recent years, ongoing labor force and supply chain disruptions and rising commodity prices, among other factors, on rate adequacy and loss cost trends. Similarly, we are monitoring the responsive monetary policy actions taken or anticipated to be taken by central banks, to curb inflation and the corresponding impact on market interest rates. North America Commercial remains in a firm market amidst a backdrop of increasing claims severity due to elevated economic and social inflation, as well as a higher frequency and severity of natural catastrophe losses over recent years (which we believe to be in part connected to climate change). While market discipline continues to support price increases across most lines, we are seeing capacity move back into the market in certain segments given the improved pricing levels which is putting pressure on rates. We have focused on retaining our best accounts which has led to improving retention across the portfolio. These retention rates are often coupled with an exposure limit management strategy to reduce volatility within the portfolio. We continue to proactively identify segment growth areas as market conditions warrant through effective portfolio management, while non-renewing unprofitable business. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance Personal Insurance growth prospects are supported by the need for full life cycle products and coverage, increases in personal wealth accumulation, and awareness of insurance protection and risk management. We compete in the high net worth market, accident and health insurance, travel insurance, and warranty services and will continue to expand our innovative products and services to distribution partners and clients. We are continuing to pursue growth in our most profitable lines of business and diversify our portfolio across all regions by expanding key business lines while remaining a market leader in key developed and developing markets. Overall, Commercial Lines continue to show positive rate change, particularly in our Financial Lines, Property, Energy and Marine portfolios and across international markets where market events or withdrawal of capability and capacity have favorably impacted pricing. We are maintaining our underwriting discipline, reducing gross and net limits where appropriate, utilizing reinsurance to reduce volatility, as well as continuing our risk selection strategy to improve profitability. Personal Insurance focuses on individual customers, as well as group and corporate clients. Although market competition within Personal Insurance has increased, we continue to benefit from the underwriting quality and portfolio diversity. (a) Consistent with our definition of APTI, excludes net loss reserve discount and the portion of favorable or unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk under retroactive reinsurance agreements and related changes in amortization of the deferred gain. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance The following table presents General Insurance net premiums written by operating segment, showing change on both reported and constant dollar basis: The following tables present General Insurance accident year catastrophes (a) by geography and number of events: (a) Natural catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events, in each case, having a net impact on AIG in excess of $10 million and man-made catastrophe losses, such as terrorism and civil unrest that exceed the $10 million threshold. (b) As the Russia/Ukraine conflict continues to evolve the number of events is yet to be determined. (c) As COVID-19 continues to evolve, impacting many lines of business, the number of events is yet to be determined. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance NORTH AMERICA RESULTS (a) Consistent with our definition of APTI, excludes net loss reserve discount and the portion of favorable or unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk under retroactive reinsurance agreements and related changes in amortization of the deferred gain. Business and Financial Highlights Net Premiums Written Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Net premiums written increased by $631 million primarily due to growth in Commercial Lines ($673 million), particularly in Property, Casualty and AIG Re, driven by continued positive rate change, higher renewal retentions and strong new business production, as well as growth in Crop Risk Services driven by higher commodity prices, partially offset by a decrease in Financial Lines due to volatility in capital markets and uncertain economic conditions. This increase was partially offset by lower production in Personal Insurance ($42 million), particularly in Warranty as well as underwriting actions taken in PCG to improve profitability, partially offset by an increase in Travel. Underwriting Income (Loss) Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Underwriting income of $648 million in 2022 compared to an underwriting loss of $47 million in 2021 primarily reflected: • premium growth with improvement in the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted (4.1 points) primarily driven by changes in business mix along with continued positive rate change, focused risk selection and improved terms and conditions; and • lower catastrophe losses (3.0 points or $253 million). This improvement was partially offset by: • higher expense ratio of 1.1 points reflecting a higher acquisition ratio (1.3 points) primarily driven by changes in business mix and reinsurance, partially offset by a lower general operating expense ratio (0.2 points) resulting from continued general expense discipline as we grow the portfolio; and • lower net favorable prior year reserve development in 2022 compared 2021 (0.2 points or $34 million), primarily due to lower favorable development in PCG and higher unfavorable development within Financial Lines, partially offset by higher favorable development in Property, Casualty and Crop Risk Services. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | General Insurance INTERNATIONAL RESULTS Business and Financial Highlights Net Premiums Written Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Net premiums written, excluding the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange ($1,287 million), increased by $278 million due to growth in Commercial Lines ($417 million), notably Specialty, Property and Casualty driven by continued positive rate change and strong new business production. This increase was partially offset by lower production in Personal Insurance ($139 million), where declines in Warranty and Personal Auto were partially offset by growth in Travel and Accident & Health. Underwriting Income (Loss) Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Underwriting income increased by $298 million primarily due to: • higher net favorable prior year reserve development in 2022 compared to 2021 (2.4 points or $346 million), primarily as a result of lower unfavorable development in Financial Lines and higher favorable development in Specialty, partially offset by lower favorable development in Accident & Health; • a lower expense ratio (1.2 points) from a lower acquisition ratio (1.2 points) primarily driven by changes in business mix, improved commission terms and reinsurance program changes; and • improvement in the accident year loss ratio, as adjusted (0.5 points) primarily driven by changes in business mix along with continued positive rate change, focused risk selection and improved terms and conditions. These increases were partially offset by higher catastrophe losses (1.4 points or $188 million). ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement FHLB Funding Agreements: Funding agreements are issued by our U.S. Life and Retirement companies to FHLBs in their respective districts at fixed or floating rates over specified periods, which can be prepaid at our discretion. Proceeds are generally invested in fixed income securities and other suitable investments to generate spread income. These investment contracts do not have mortality or morbidity risk and are similar to GICs. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Deliver client-centric solutions through our unique franchise by bringing together a broad portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional products offered through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. Life and Retirement focuses on ease of doing business, offering valuable solutions, and expanding and deepening its distribution relationships across multiple channels. Position market leading businesses to serve growing needs by continually enhancing product solutions, service delivery and digital capabilities while using data and analytics in an innovative manner to improve customer experience. Enhance Operational Effectiveness by simplifying processes and operating environments to increase competitiveness, improve service and product capabilities and facilitate delivery of our target customer experience. We continue to invest in technology to improve operating efficiency and ease of doing business for our distribution partners and customers. We believe that simplifying our operating models will enhance productivity and support further profitable growth. Manage our Balance Sheet through a rigorous approach to our products and portfolio. We match our product design and high-quality investments with our asset and liability exposures to support our cash and liquidity needs under various operating scenarios. Deliver Value Creation and Manage Capital by striving to deliver solid earnings and returns on capital through disciplined pricing, sustainable underwriting improvements, expense efficiency, and diversification of risk, while optimizing capital allocation and efficiency within insurance entities to enhance return on common equity. Life and Retirement operates in the highly competitive insurance and financial services industry in the U.S. and select international markets, competing against various financial services companies, including banks and other life insurance and mutual fund companies. Competition is primarily based on product pricing and design, distribution, financial strength, customer service and ease of doing business. Our business remains competitive due to its long-standing market leading positions, innovative products, distribution relationships across multiple channels, customer-focused service and strong financial ratings. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement Our primary challenges include: • Managing a rising rate environment. While a rising rate environment improves yields on new investment, improves margins on our business, and increases sales in certain products such as fixed annuities, it may also result in increased competition for certain products resulting in a need to increase crediting rates, and has resulted in lower separate account asset values for investments in fixed income which has reduced fee income; • increased competition in our primary markets, including aggressive pricing of annuities by competitors, increased competition and consolidation of employer groups in the group retirement planning market, and competitors with different profitability targets in the pension risk transfer space as well as other product lines; • increasingly complex new and proposed regulatory requirements, which have affected industry growth and costs; and • upgrading our technology and underwriting processes while managing general operating expenses. Below is a discussion of the industry and economic factors impacting our specific operating segments: The worldwide health and economic impact of COVID-19 continues to evolve, influenced by the scope, severity and duration of the pandemic, including resurgences and variants of the virus as well as the distribution and effectiveness of vaccinations. On December 15, 2021, AIG and BREIT, a long-term, perpetual capital vehicle affiliated with Blackstone, completed the acquisition by BREIT of AIG’s interests in a U.S. affordable housing portfolio. The historical results of the U.S. affordable housing portfolio were reported in our Life and Retirement operating segments. For additional information on the separation of Life and Retirement please, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Business and Operations – “No assurances can be given that the separation of our Life and Retirement business will occur or as to the specific terms or timing thereof. In addition, we may not achieve the expected benefits of the separation and will have continuing equity market exposure to Corebridge until we fully divest our stake.” Individual Retirement Increasing life expectancy and reduced expectations for traditional retirement income from defined benefit programs and fixed income securities are leading Americans to seek additional financial security as they approach retirement. The strong demand for fixed index and fixed annuities with guaranteed living benefit features has attracted increased competition in this product space. In response to the low interest rate environment that prevailed over the past several years we have developed guaranteed living benefits for variable, fixed index and fixed  annuities with margins that are less sensitive to the level of interest rates. Changes in the capital markets (interest rate environment, credit spreads, equity markets, volatility) can have a significant impact on sales, surrender rates, investment returns, guaranteed income features, and net investment spreads in the annuity industry. Group Retirement Group Retirement competes in the defined contribution market under the AIG Retirement Services brand. AIG Retirement Services is a leading retirement plan provider in the U.S. for K-12 schools and school districts, higher education, healthcare, government and other not-for-profit institutions. The defined contribution market is a highly efficient and competitive market that requires support for both plan sponsors and individual participants. To meet this challenge, AIG Retirement Services is investing in a client- focused technology platform to support improved compliance and self-service functionality. AIG Retirement Services’ model pairs self-service tools with its employee financial advisors who provide individual plan participants with enrollment support and comprehensive financial planning services. Changes in the interest rates, credit spreads and equity market environment can have a significant impact on investment returns, fee income, advisory and other income, guaranteed income features, and net investment spreads, and a moderate impact on sales and surrender rates. Life Insurance Consumers have a significant need for life insurance, whether it is used for income replacement for their surviving family, estate planning or wealth transfer. Additionally, consumers use life insurance to provide living benefits in case of chronic, critical or terminal illnesses, and to supplement retirement income. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement In response to consumer needs and a changing interest rate environment, our Life Insurance product portfolio will continue to promote products with less long-duration interest rate risk and mitigate exposure to products that have long-duration interest rate risk through sales levels and hedging strategies. As life insurance ownership remains at historical lows in the U.S. and the UK, efforts to expand the reach and increase the affordability of life insurance are critical. The industry is investing in consumer-centric efforts to reduce traditional barriers to securing life protection by simplifying the sales and service experience. Digitally enabled processes and tools provide a fast, friendly and simple path to life insurance protection. Institutional Markets Institutional Markets serves a variety of needs for corporate clients. Demand is driven by a number of factors including the macroeconomic and regulatory environment. We expect to see continued growth in the pension risk transfer market (direct and assumed reinsurance) as corporate plan sponsors look to transfer asset or liability, longevity, administrative and operational risks associated with their defined benefit plans. Changes in interest rates and credit spreads can have a significant impact on investment returns and net investment spreads, impacting organic growth opportunities. For additional information on the impact of market interest rate movement on our Life and Retirement business, see Executive Summary – AIG’s Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors – Impact of Changes in the Interest Rate Environment and Equity Markets. LIFE AND RETIREMENT RESULTS For additional information including the impact of actuarial assumptions on our Life and Retirement results, see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC – Update of Actuarial Assumptions by Business Segment Impact to Adjusted Pre-tax Income (Loss). Our insurance companies generate significant revenues from investment activities. As a result, the operating segments in Life and Retirement are significantly impacted by variances in net investment income on the asset portfolios that support insurance liabilities and surplus. For additional information on our investment strategy, asset-liability management process and invested asset composition, see Investments. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT RESULTS * Includes returns from base portfolio including accretion and income (loss) from certain other invested assets. Business and Financial Highlights Adjusted Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Adjusted pre-tax income decreased $717 million primarily due to: • lower net investment income, net of interest credited ($530 million) primarily driven by lower alternative investment income ($401 million), lower yield enhancement income ($285 million), partially offset by higher base portfolio income, net of interest credited ($156 million); • higher DAC amortization and policyholder benefits net of premiums, excluding the review and update of actuarial assumptions ($225 million) primarily due to lower variable annuity separate account returns; and • lower policy and advisory fee income, net of advisory fee expenses ($219 million), primarily due to a decrease in variable annuity separate account assets driven by negative equity market performance and sale of retail mutual funds to Touchstone. Partially offset by: • net favorable impact from the review and update of actuarial assumptions ($184 million); • lower interest expense on debt borrowings due to sale of Affordable Housing ($50 million); and • lower non-deferred commissions ($46 million) due to a decrease in variable annuity separate account assets; ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT GAAP PREMIUMS, PREMIUMS AND DEPOSITS, SURRENDERS AND NET FLOWS Premiums and deposits is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes, in addition to direct and assumed premiums, deposits received on investment-type annuity contracts and mutual funds under administration. Net flows for annuity products in Individual Retirement represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender and other withdrawal benefits. Net flows for mutual funds represent deposits less withdrawals. The following table presents a reconciliation of Individual Retirement GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits: The following table presents Individual Retirement premiums and deposits and net flows by product line: Premiums and Deposits and Net Flow Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Fixed Annuities Net outflows decreased ($2.0 billion) over the prior year, primarily due to higher premiums and deposits ($2.7 billion) due to competitive pricing and higher interest rates and lower death benefits ($300 million), partially offset by higher surrenders and withdrawals ($1.0 billion). Variable Annuities Net outflows increased ($807 million) primarily due to lower premiums and deposits ($1.9 billion), due to market volatility; partially offset by lower surrenders and withdrawals ($993 million) and lower death benefits ($116 million). Fixed Index Annuities Net inflows increased ($450 million) primarily due to higher premiums and deposits ($695 million), due to competitive pricing and higher interest rates; partially offset by higher surrenders and withdrawals ($193 million) and higher death benefits ($52 million). Retail Mutual Funds There were no flows in 2022 due to the Touchstone sale in the second quarter of 2021. For additional information regarding the sale of certain assets of the AIG Life and Retirement Retail Mutual Funds business, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents surrenders as a percentage of average reserves: ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement The following table presents reserves for fixed annuities and variable and fixed index annuities by surrender charge category: Individual Retirement annuities are typically subject to a three- to seven-year surrender charge period, depending on the product. For fixed annuities, the proportion of reserves subject to surrender charge at December 31, 2022 increased compared to December 31, 2021 primarily due to growth in business. For fixed index annuities, the proportion was slightly lower due to the aging of the business. The increase in the proportion of reserves with no surrender charge for variable annuities as of December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021 was principally due to normal aging of business. GROUP RETIREMENT RESULTS * Includes returns from base portfolio including accretion and income (loss) from certain other invested assets. Business and Financial Highlights Adjusted Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Adjusted pre-tax income decreased $535 million primarily due to: • lower net investment income, net of interest credited ($397 million) primarily driven by lower alternative investment income  ($224 million), lower yield enhancement income ($158 million) and higher base portfolio income net of interest credited ($15 million); • lower policy and advisory fee income, net of advisory fee expenses of ($94 million) due to lower fee based assets under administration as a result of lower equity market performance; and • higher DAC and sales inducement amortization and higher policyholder benefits, net of premiums mostly due to lower equity market performance ($61 million). ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement These decreases were partially offset by lower interest expense on debt borrowings due to sale of Affordable Housing ($29 million). GROUP RETIREMENT GAAP PREMIUMS, PREMIUMS AND DEPOSITS, SURRENDERS AND NET FLOWS Premiums and deposits are a non-GAAP financial measure that includes, in addition to direct and assumed premiums, deposits received on investment-type annuity contracts, FHLB funding agreements and mutual funds under administration. Net flows for annuity products included in Group Retirement represent premiums and deposits less death, surrender and other withdrawal benefits. Net flows for mutual funds represent deposits less withdrawals. Client deposits into advisory and brokerage accounts less total client withdrawals from advisory and brokerage accounts, are not included in net flows, but do contribute to growth in assets under administration and advisory fee income. The following table presents a reconciliation of Group Retirement GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits and net flows: (a) Excludes client deposits into advisory and brokerage accounts of $2.1 billion, $2.5 billion and $1.4 billion for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 respectively. Premiums and Deposits and Net Flow Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Net outflows decreased ($97 million) primarily due to higher premiums and deposits ($176 million), partially offset by higher death and payout annuity benefits of ($30 million), and higher surrenders and withdrawals of ($49 million). In general, net outflows are concentrated in fixed annuity products with higher contractual guaranteed minimum crediting rates. Large plan acquisitions and surrenders resulted in higher net flows of ($121 million ) compared to the prior year. The following table presents Group Retirement surrenders as a percentage of average reserves and mutual funds under administration: The following table presents reserves for Group Retirement annuities by surrender charge category: (a) Excludes mutual fund assets under administration of $24.0 billion and $28.8 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (b) Group Retirement amounts in this category include general account reserves of approximately $4.5 billion and $4.7 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are subject to 20 percent annual withdrawal limitations at the participant level and general account reserves of $5.8 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are subject to 20 percent annual withdrawal limitations at the plan level. Group Retirement annuity deposits are typically subject to a five- to seven-year surrender charge period, depending on the product. At December 31, 2022, Group Retirement annuity reserves with no surrender charge decreased compared to December 31, 2021 primarily due to decline in assets under management from lower equity markets. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement LIFE INSURANCE RESULTS Business and Financial Highlights Adjusted Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Adjusted pre-tax income increased $231 million primarily due to: • higher premiums and policy fees, net of policyholder benefits, excluding actuarial assumptions update ($509 million), primarily due to favorable mortality; and • lower general operating expenses ($28 million). Partially offsetting this increase was: • lower net investment income, net of interest credited ($214 million), primarily driven by lower alternative investment and yield enhancement income ($262 million) primarily due to lower equity partnership performance and reduced gains on calls, and higher base portfolio income, net of interest credited ($48 million); and • lower net favorable impact from the review and update of actuarial assumptions ($82 million). LIFE INSURANCE GAAP PREMIUMS AND PREMIUMS AND DEPOSITS Premiums for Life Insurance represent amounts received on traditional life insurance policies, primarily term life and international life and hea lth. Premiums, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, increased $391 million in 2022 compared to 2021. Premiums and deposits for Life Insurance is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes direct and assumed premiums as well as deposits received on universal life insurance. Premiums and deposits, excluding the effect of foreign exchange, increased $147 million in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to growth in international life premiums. The following table presents a reconciliation of Life Insurance GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits: * Other principally consists of adding back ceded premiums to reflect the gross premiums and deposits. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Life and Retirement INSTITUTIONAL MARKETS RESULTS Business and Financial Highlights Adjusted Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Comparison for 2022 and 2021 Adjusted pre-tax income decreased $233 million primarily due to: • lower net investment income ($103 million) primarily driven by lower alternative investment income ($145 million) and lower yield enhancement income ($89 million) partially offset by higher base portfolio income ($131 million); • lower premiums primarily on new pension risk transfer business ($852 million); and • higher interest credited on policyholder account balances, primarily related to the GIC business ($46 million). Partially offsetting these decreases was a reduction in policyholder benefits and losses incurred (including interest accretion) primarily on new pension risk transfer business ($752 million). INSTITUTIONAL MARKETS GAAP PREMIUMS AND PREMIUMS AND DEPOSITS Premiums for Institutional Markets primarily represent amounts received on pension risk transfer or structured settlement annuities with life contingencies. Premiums decreased $852 million in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily driven by the transactional nature of the pension risk transfer business (direct and assumed reinsurance). Premiums and deposits for Institutional Markets is a non-GAAP financial measure that includes direct and assumed premiums as well as deposits received on investment-type annuity contracts. Deposits primarily include GICs, FHLB funding agreements and structured settlement annuities with no life contingencies. Premiums and deposits decreased $623 million in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to lower premiums on pension risk transfer business, partially offset by deposits of structured settlement annuities. The following table presents a reconciliation of Institutional Markets GAAP premiums to premiums and deposits: * Other principally consists of adding back ceded premiums to reflect the gross premiums and deposits. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Other Operations Other Operations primarily consists of income from assets held by AIG Parent and other corporate subsidiaries, deferred tax assets related to tax attributes, corporate expenses and intercompany eliminations, our institutional asset management business and results of our consolidated investment entities, General Insurance portfolios in run-off as well as the historical results of our legacy insurance lines ceded to Fortitude Re. * Interest – Asset Management primarily represents interest expense on consolidated investment entities of $217 million, $182 million and $148 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020 , respectively. ITEM 7 | Business Segment Operations | Other Operations 2022 AND 2021 COMPARISON Adjusted pre-tax loss before consolidation and eliminations of $1.5 billion in 2022 compared to $1.4 billion in 2021, decrease of $124 million was primarily due to: • lower net investment income associated with consolidated investment entities of $382 million partially offset by higher income on AIG Parent portfolio of $94 million due to higher yields and $56 million mark to market gain on the 2.46 percent equity interest in Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC; • lower underwriting loss attributable to lower catastrophe losses of $38 million and absence of unfavorable prior year development ($86 million in 2021) within Other Operations Run-Off, primarily Blackboard U.S. Holdings, Inc. (Blackboard); • lower corporate interest expense primarily driven by interest savings of $225 million from $9.4 billion debt repurchases, through cash tender offers, and debt redemption in 2022 as well as $92 million from $3.6 billion of debt redemptions and debt repurchases, through cash tender offers in 2021, partially offset by interest expense of $240 million on $6.5 billion Corebridge senior unsecured notes, $1.5 billion draw down on Corebridge DDTL facility and $1.0 billion junior subordinated debt issued by Corebridge in 2022; and • lower corporate and other general operating expenses of $45 million primarily driven by decreases in employment costs of $254 million partially offset by higher professional fees of $209 million. Adjusted pre-tax loss on consolidation and eliminations of $405 million in 2022 compared to $932 million in 2021, a decrease of $527 million, was primarily due to the elimination of the insurance companies’ net investment income from their investment in the consolidated investment entities of $520 million. ITEM 7 | Investments Investments OVERVIEW Our investment strategies are tailored to the specific business needs of each operating unit by targeting an asset allocation mix that supports estimated cash flows of our outstanding liabilities and provides diversification from an asset class, sector, issuer, and geographic perspective. The primary objectives are generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of fixed maturity securities. Over the past several quarters inflation has continued to remain elevated, which has led to the increases in interest rates by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in several years. This has also led to a significant rise in interest rates across the yield curve and a widening of credit spreads reflecting ongoing recession concerns. INVESTMENT STRATEGIES Investment strategies are assessed at the segment level and involve considerations that include local and general market and economic conditions, duration and cash flow management, risk appetite and volatility constraints, rating agency and regulatory capital considerations, tax, regulatory and legal investment limitations, and, as applicable, environmental, social and governance considerations. Some of our key investment strategies are as follows: • Our fundamental strategy across the portfolios is to seek investments with similar characteristics to the associated insurance liabilities to the extent practicable. • We seek to purchase investments that offer enhanced yield through illiquidity premiums, such as private placements and commercial mortgage loans, which also add portfolio diversification. These assets typically afford credit protections through covenants, ability to customize structures that meet our insurance liability needs, and deeper due diligence given information access. • Given our global presence, we seek investments that provide diversification from local markets. To the extent we purchase these investments, we generally hedge any currency risk using derivatives, which could provide opportunities to earn higher risk adjusted returns compared to investments in the functional currency. • AIG Parent, included in Other Operations, actively manages its assets and liabilities, counterparties and duration. AIG Parent’s liquidity sources are held primarily in the form of cash and short-term investments. This strategy allows us to both diversify our sources of liquidity and reduce the cost of maintaining sufficient liquidity. • Within the U.S., the Life and Retirement and General Insurance investments are generally split between reserve backing and surplus portfolios. – Insurance reserves are backed mainly by investment grade fixed maturity securities that meet our duration, risk-return, tax, liquidity, credit quality and diversification objectives. We assess asset classes based on their fundamental underlying risk factors, including credit (public and private), commercial real estate and residential real estate, regardless of whether such investments are bonds, loans, or structured products. – Surplus investments seek to enhance portfolio returns and are generally comprised of a mix of fixed maturity investment grade and below investment grade securities and various alternative asset classes, including private equity, real estate equity, and hedge funds. Over the past few years, hedge fund investments have been reduced with more emphasis given to private equity, real estate and below investment grade credit. ITEM 7 | Investments • Outside of the U.S., fixed maturity securities held by our insurance companies consist primarily of investment-grade securities generally denominated in the currencies of the countries in which we operate. • We also utilize derivatives to manage our asset and liability duration as well as currency exposures. Asset-Liability Management The investment strategy within the General Insurance companies focuses on growth of surplus, maintenance of sufficient liquidity for unanticipated insurance claims, and preservation of capital. General Insurance invests primarily in fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies; structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate; and commercial mortgage loans. Fixed maturity securities of the General Insurance companies’ North America operations have an average duration of 4.0 years. Fixed maturity securities of the General Insurance companies’ International operations have an average duration of 3.2 years. While invested assets backing reserves of the General Insurance companies are primarily invested in conventional liquid fixed maturity securities, we have continued to allocate to asset classes that offer higher yields through structural and illiquidity premiums, particularly in our North America operations. In addition, we continue to invest in both fixed rate and floating rate asset-backed investments to manage our exposure to potential changes in interest rates and inflation. We seek to diversify the portfolio across asset classes, sectors and issuers to mitigate idiosyncratic portfolio risks. In addition, a portion of the surplus of General Insurance is invested in a diversified portfolio of alternative investments that seek to balance liquidity, volatility and growth of surplus. Although these alternative investments are subject to periodic earnings fluctuations, they have historically achieved yields in excess of the fixed maturity portfolio yields and have provided added diversification to the broader portfolio. The investment strategy of the Life and Retirement companies is to provide net investment income to back liabilities that result in stable distributable earnings and enhance portfolio value, subject to asset-liability management, capital, liquidity and regulatory constraints. The Life and Retirement companies use asset-liability management as a primary tool to monitor and manage risk in their businesses. The Life and Retirement companies maintain a diversified, high-to-medium quality portfolio of fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies; structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate; and commercial mortgage loans that, to the extent practicable, match the duration characteristics of the liabilities. We seek to diversify the portfolio across asset classes, sectors, and issuers to mitigate idiosyncratic portfolio risks. The investment portfolio of each product line is tailored to the specific characteristics of its insurance liabilities, and as a result, duration varies between distinct portfolios. The interest rate environment has a direct impact on the asset-liability management profile of the businesses, and changes in the interest rate environment may result in the need to lengthen or shorten the duration of the portfolio. In a rising rate environment, we may shorten the duration of the investment portfolio. Fixed maturity securities of the Life and Retirement companies’ domestic operations have an average duration of 7.2 years. In addition, the Life and Retirement companies seek to enhance surplus portfolio returns through investments in a diversified portfolio of alternative investments. Although these alternative investments are subject to periodic earnings fluctuations, they have historically achieved returns in excess of the fixed maturity portfolio returns. National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) Designations of Fixed Maturity Securities The Securities Valuation Office (SVO) of the NAIC evaluates the investments of U.S. insurers for statutory reporting purposes and assigns fixed maturity securities to one of six categories called NAIC Designations. In general, NAIC Designations of ‘1’ highest quality, or ‘2’ high quality, include fixed maturity securities considered investment grade, while NAIC Designations of ‘3’ through ‘6’ generally include fixed maturity securities referred to as below investment grade. NAIC Designations for non-agency residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) and commercial mortgage backed securities (CMBS) are calculated using third party modeling results provided through the NAIC. These methodologies result in an improved NAIC Designation for such securities compared to the rating typically assigned by the three major rating agencies. The following tables summarize the ratings distribution of AIG subsidiaries’ fixed maturity security portfolio by NAIC Designation, and the distribution by composite AIG credit rating, which is generally based on ratings of the three major rating agencies. For fixed maturity securities where no NAIC Designation is assigned or able to be calculated using third-party data, the NAIC Designation category used in the first table below reflects an internal rating. The NAIC Designations presented below do not reflect the added granularity to the designation categories adopted by the NAIC in 2020, which further subdivide each category of fixed maturity securities by appending letter modifiers to the numerical designations. For a full description of the composite AIG credit ratings, see – Credit Ratings below. ITEM 7 | Investments The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by NAIC Designation, at fair value: * Excludes $21 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available. The following table presents the fixed maturity security portfolio categorized by composite AIG credit rating, at fair value: * Excludes $21 million of fixed maturity securities for which no NAIC Designation is available. CREDIT RATINGS At December 31, 2022, approximately 88 percent of our fixed maturity securities were held by our domestic entities. Approximately 89 percent of these securities were rated investment grade by one or more of the principal rating agencies. Moody’s Investors Service Inc. (Moody’s), Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC, a subsidiary of S&P Global Inc. (S&P), or similar foreign rating services rate a significant portion of our foreign entities’ fixed maturity securities portfolio. Rating services are not available for some foreign-issued securities. Our Credit Risk Management department closely reviews the credit quality of the foreign portfolio’s non-rated fixed maturity securities. At December 31, 2022, approximately 94 percent of such investments were either rated investment grade or, on the basis of our internal analysis, were equivalent from a credit standpoint to securities rated investment grade. Approximately 27 percent of the foreign entities’ fixed maturity securities portfolio is comprised of sovereign fixed maturity securities supporting policy liabilities in the country of issuance. Composite AIG Credit Ratings With respect to our fixed maturity securities, the credit ratings in the table below and in subsequent tables reflect: (i) a composite of the ratings of the three major rating agencies, or when agency ratings are not available, the NAIC Designation assigned by the NAIC SVO (99 percent of total fixed maturity securities), or (ii) our internal ratings when these investments have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies or the NAIC. The “Non-rated” category in those tables consists of fixed maturity securities that have not been rated by any of the major rating agencies, the NAIC or us. For information regarding credit risks associated with Investments, see Enterprise Risk Management – Credit Risk Management. ITEM 7 | Investments The following table presents the composite AIG credit ratings of our fixed maturity securities calculated on the basis of their fair value: Available-for-Sale Investments The following table presents the fair value of our available-for-sale securities: * At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the fair value of bonds available for sale held by us that were below investment grade or not rated totaled $22.3 billion and $27.0 billion, respectively. ITEM 7 | Investments The following table presents the fair value of our aggregate credit exposures to non-U.S. governments for our fixed maturity securities: The following table presents the fair value of our aggregate European credit exposures by major sector for our fixed maturity securities: ITEM 7 | Investments Investments in Municipal Bonds At December 31, 2022, the U.S. municipal bond portfolio was composed primarily of essential service revenue bonds and high-quality tax-exempt bonds with 97 percent of the portfolio rated A or higher. The following table presents the fair values of our available for sale U.S. municipal bond portfolio by state and municipal bond type: (a) We did not have material credit exposure to the government of Puerto Rico. (b) Excludes certain university and not-for-profit entities that issue their bonds in the corporate debt market. Includes industrial revenue bonds. (c) Includes $327 million of pre-refunded municipal bonds. Investments in Corporate Debt Securities The following table presents the fair value of our available for sale corporate debt securities by industry categories: * At December 31, 2022 and 2021, approximately 89 percent and 90 percent, respectively, of these investments were rated investment grade. ITEM 7 | Investments Our investments in the energy category, as a percentage of total investments in available-for-sale fixed maturities, was 4.6 percent and 4.9 percent, at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. While the energy investments are primarily investment grade and are actively managed, the category continues to experience volatility that could adversely affect credit quality and fair value. Investments in RMBS The following table presents the fair value of AIG’s RMBS available for sale securities: (a) Includes approximately $4.4 billion and $6.1 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, of certain RMBS that had experienced deterioration in credit quality since their origination. For additional information on Purchased Credit Deteriorated Securities, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) The weighted average expected life was seven years at December 31, 2022 and five years at December 31, 2021. Our underwriting practices for investing in RMBS, other asset-backed securities (ABS) and CLOs take into consideration the quality of the originator, the manager, the servicer, security credit ratings, underlying characteristics of the mortgages, borrower characteristics, and the level of credit enhancement in the transaction. Investments in CMBS The following table presents the fair value of our CMBS available for sale securities: The fair value of CMBS holdings remained stable during 2022. The majority of our investments in CMBS are in tranches that contain substantial protection features through collateral subordination. The majority of CMBS holdings are traditional conduit transactions, broadly diversified across property types and geographical areas. Investments in ABS/CLOs The following table presents the fair value of our ABS/CLOs available for sale securities by collateral type: ITEM 7 | Investments Unrealized Losses of Fixed Maturity Securities The following table shows the aging of the unrealized losses of fixed maturity securities, the extent to which the fair value is less than amortized cost or cost, and the number of respective items in each category: (a) Represents the number of consecutive months that fair value has been less than cost by any amount. (b) Represents the percentage by which fair value is less than cost. (c) For bonds, represents amortized cost net of allowance. (d) The effect on Net income of unrealized losses after taxes will be mitigated upon realization because certain realized losses will result in current decreases in the amortization of certain DAC. (e) Item count is by CUSIP by subsidiary. The allowance for credit losses was $11 million for investment grade bonds and $175 million for below investment grade bonds as of December 31, 2022. Commercial Mortgage Loans At December 31, 2022, we had direct commercial mortgage loan exposure of $37.1 billion. The following table presents the commercial mortgage loan exposure by location and class of loan based on amortized cost: ITEM 7 | Investments * Does not reflect allowance for credit losses. For additional information on commercial mortgage loans, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Realized Gains and Losses The following table presents the components of Net realized gains (losses): Higher Net realized capital gains excluding Fortitude Re funds withheld assets in 2022 compared to the prior year were due primarily to higher derivative gains, which was partially offset by losses in sales of securities versus gains in the prior year. Variable annuity embedded derivatives, net of related hedges, reflected higher gains in 2022 compared to the prior year. Fair value gains or losses in the hedging portfolio are typically not fully offset by increases or decreases in liabilities due to the non-performance or “own credit” risk adjustment used in the valuation of the variable annuities with GMWB embedded derivative, which are not hedged as part of our economic hedging program, and other risk margins used for valuation that cause the embedded derivatives to be less sensitive to changes in market rates than the hedge portfolio. Net realized gains (losses) on Fortitude Re funds withheld assets primarily reflect changes in the valuation of the modified coinsurance and funds withheld assets. Increases in the valuation of these assets result in losses to AIG as the appreciation on the assets must under those reinsurance arrangements be transferred to Fortitude Re. Decreases in valuation of the assets result in gains to AIG as the depreciation on the assets under those reinsurance arrangements must be transferred to Fortitude Re. For ITEM 7 | Investments additional information on the impact of the funds withheld arrangements with Fortitude Re, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information on market risk management related to these product features, see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs. For additional information on the economic hedging target and the impact to pre-tax income of this program, see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC – Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results in this MD&A. For additional information on our investment portfolio, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Change in Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments The change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments in 2022 was primarily attributable to decrease in the fair value of fixed maturity securities. For 2022, net unrealized losses related to fixed maturity securities were $47.7 billion due to an increase in interest rates and spreads. The change in net unrealized gains and losses on investments in 2021 was primarily attributable to movements in interest rates and spreads. For 2021, net unrealized losses related to fixed maturity securities were $9.3 billion due primarily to an increase in interest rates. For additional information on our investment portfolio, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Insurance Reserves LIABILITY FOR UNPAID LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES (LOSS RESERVES) The following table presents the components of our gross and net loss reserves by segment and major lines of business (a) : (a) Includes net loss reserve discount of $1.3 billion and $876 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For information regarding loss reserve discount, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (b) Other product lines and Unallocated loss adjustment expenses includes Gross liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense and Reinsurance recoverable on unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense for the Fortitude Re reinsurance of $2.9 billion and $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Prior Year Development The following table summarizes incurred (favorable) unfavorable prior year development net of reinsurance by segment: * Includes the amortization attributed to the deferred gain at inception from the National Indemnity Company (NICO) adverse development reinsurance agreement of $167 million, $193 million and $211 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Consistent with our definition of APTI, the amount excludes the portion of (favorable)/unfavorable prior year reserve development for which we have ceded the risk under the NICO reinsurance agreements of $(174) million, $(249) million and $(228) million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Also excludes the related changes in amortization of the deferred gain, which were $85 million, $(3) million and $25 million over those same periods. Net Loss Development – 2022 During 2022, we recognized favorable prior year loss reserve development of $523 million. The key components of this development were: North America • Favorable development in U.S Workers' Compensation reflecting continued favorable loss experience across most accident years particularly for excess and guaranteed cost segments. • Favorable development in U.S. Excess Casualty particularly in lead and mid-excess retail segments. • Favorable development in U.S. Other Casualty in the Commercial Auto, General Liability and Construction Wraps business. • Amortization benefit related to the deferred gain on the adverse development cover. • Unfavorable development driven by U.S. Financial Lines driven by unfavorable severity trends in Excess and Primary D&O and Excess and Financial Institutions E&O, partially offset by favorable results in EPLI. International • Favorable development on Global Specialty across all products in all regions. • Favorable development in International Personal Lines particularly with Auto and A&H coverages in Japan as well as favorable experience recognized in Europe and the UK. • Unfavorable development in Casualty in Europe Excess Casualty and French Auto as well as large loss experience in the UK, partially offset by favorable experience in APAC Casualty. • Unfavorable development in Financial Lines primarily in the UK for M&A, Commercial PI and Commercial D&O. Our analyses and conclusions about prior year reserves also help inform our judgments about the current accident year loss and loss adjustment expense ratios we selected. For additional information on prior year development by line of business, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding actuarial methods employed for major classes of business, see Critical Accounting Estimates. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves The following tables summarize incurred (favorable) unfavorable prior year development net of reinsurance, by segment and major lines of business, and by accident year groupings: Net Loss Development – 2021 During 2021, we recognized favorable prior year loss reserve development of $115 million. The key components of this development were: North America • Strong favorable development in Personal Insurance, primarily attributable to subrogation recovery related to the 2017 and 2018 California wildfires partially offset by the impact of dropping below the attachment point of our 2018 catastrophe aggregate treaty, which also adversely impacted our U.S. Property and Special Risk Commercial Lines. • Favorable development on U.S. Workers Compensation and short-tailed commercial lines within Other Product Lines, reflecting lower frequency and severity in recent calendar years. • Amortization benefit related to the deferred gain on the adverse development cover. • Reserve strengthening within U.S. Financial Lines, reflecting higher severity of claims in Directors & Officers, principally from accident years 2018 and prior, and cyber risk from accident years 2019 and 2020. International • Favorable development on short-tailed International Commercial Lines and Personal Insurance, reflecting lower frequency and severity of claims. • Reserve strengthening on International Financial Lines, reflecting higher severity of claims, the majority of which is from accident years 2018 and prior. Other Operations • Unfavorable development primarily attributed to the Blackboard insurance portfolio due to increased severity on reported claims. We note that for certain categories of claims (e.g., construction defect claims and environmental claims) and for reinsurance recoverable, losses may sometimes be reclassified to an earlier or later accident year as more information about the date of occurrence becomes available to us. For information regarding the 2020 net loss development, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Insurance Reserves – Loss Reserves of our 2021 Annual Report. Significant Reinsurance Agreements In the first quarter of 2017, we entered into an adverse development reinsurance agreement with NICO, under which we transferred to NICO 80 percent of the reserve risk on substantially all of our U.S. Commercial long-tail exposures for accident years 2015 and prior. Under this agreement, we ceded to NICO 80 percent of the losses on subject business paid on or after January 1, 2016 in excess of $25 billion of net paid losses, up to an aggregate limit of $25 billion. We account for this transaction as retroactive reinsurance. This ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves transaction resulted in a gain, which under GAAP retroactive reinsurance accounting is deferred and amortized into income over the settlement period. NICO created a collateral trust account as security for their claim payment obligations to us, into which they deposited the consideration paid under the agreement, and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has provided a parental guarantee to secure NICO’s obligations under the agreement. For a description of AIG’s catastrophe reinsurance protection for 2021, see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – General Insurance Companies’ Key Risks – Natural Catastrophe Risk. The table below shows the calculation of the deferred gain on the adverse development reinsurance agreement as of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, showing the effect of discounting of loss reserves and amortization of the deferred gain. (a) The accretion of discount and a reduction in effective interest rates is offset by changes in estimates of the amount and timing of future recoveries. (b) Excluded from APTI. The following table presents the rollforward of activity in the deferred gain from the adverse development reinsurance agreement: (a) Prior year reserve development ceded to NICO under the retroactive reinsurance agreement is deferred under GAAP. (b) Represents amortization of the deferred gain recognized in APTI. (c) Excluded from APTI. The lines of business subject to this agreement include those with longer tails, which carry a higher degree of uncertainty. Since inception, there have been periods of unfavorable prior year development, with more recent favorable development. This agreement will continue to reduce the impact of volatility in the development on our ultimate loss estimates over time. The agreement has resulted in lower capital charges for reserve risks at our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. In addition, net investment income declined as a result of lower invested assets. Fortitude Re was established during the first quarter of 2018 in a series of reinsurance transactions related to our run-off operations. Those reinsurance transactions were designed to consolidate most of our insurance run-off lines into a single legal entity. As of December 31, 2022, approximately $29.0 billion of reserves from our Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and approximately $3.2 billion of reserves from our General Insurance Run-Off Lines related to business written by multiple wholly-owned AIG subsidiaries, had been ceded to Fortitude Re under these reinsurance transactions. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Of the Fortitude Re reinsurance agreements, the largest is the Amended and Restated Combination Coinsurance and Modified Coinsurance Agreement by and between our subsidiary AGL and Fortitude Re. Under this treaty, approximately $22.1 billion of AGL reserves as of December 31, 2022 were ceded to Fortitude Re representing a mix of life and annuity risks. Fortitude Re provides 100 percent reinsurance of the ceded risks. AGL retains the risk of collection of any third party reinsurance covering the ceded business. At effectiveness of the treaty, an amount equal to the aggregate ceded reserves was deposited by AGL into a modified coinsurance account of AGL to secure the obligations of Fortitude Re. Fortitude Re receives or makes quarterly payments that represent the net gain or loss under the treaty for the relevant quarter, including any net investment gain or loss on the assets in the modified coinsurance account. Since the effectiveness of the treaty, an AIG affiliate has served as portfolio manager of the vast majority of the assets in the modified coinsurance account. In December 2022, the management of most of the public fixed income securities in the modified coinsurance account was transitioned to BlackRock. In accordance with the terms of the treaty, following the third anniversary of the June 2, 2020 closing of the sale of our majority interest in Fortitude Group Holdings, L.L.C., Fortitude Re has increased rights to direct the appointment of investment managers to manage the assets in the modified coinsurance account. LIFE AND ANNUITY FUTURE POLICY BENEFITS, POLICYHOLDER CONTRACT DEPOSITS AND DAC The following section provides discussion of life and annuity future policy benefits, policyholder contract deposits and deferred policy acquisition costs. For information regarding 2020 life and annuity future policy benefits, policyholder contract deposits and deferred policy acquisition costs, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC of our 2021 Annual Report. Update of Actuarial Assumptions and Models The life insurance companies review and update actuarial assumptions at least annually, generally in the third quarter. Investment-Oriented Products The life insurance companies review and update estimated gross profit assumptions used to amortize DAC and related items (which may include VOBA, DSI and unearned revenue reserves) as well as assessments used to accrue guaranteed benefit reserves at least annually. Estimated gross profit projections include assumptions for investment-related returns and spreads (including investment expenses), product-related fees and expenses, mortality gains and losses, policyholder behavior and other factors. In estimating future gross profits, lapse assumptions require judgment and can have a material impact on DAC amortization. If the assumptions used for estimated gross profits change significantly, DAC and related reserves are recalculated using the new projections, and any resulting adjustment is included in income. Updating such projections may result in acceleration of amortization in some products and deceleration of amortization in other products. The life insurance companies also review assumptions related to their respective GMWB living benefits that are accounted for as embedded derivatives and measured at fair value. The fair value of these embedded derivatives is based on actuarial assumptions, including policyholder behavior, as well as capital market assumptions. Various assumptions were updated, including the following effective September 30, 2022, which continued to be our best estimate assumptions as of December 31, 2022: • Expected lapses increased primarily due to the impact of higher interest rates for fixed annuities in Individual Retirement; and • Interest rates and equity correlation used to generate risk neutral path for variable annuities in Individual Retirement and Group Retirement decreased resulting in a reduction of GMWB embedded derivatives. For information regarding actuarial methods, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Estimated Gross Profits to Value Deferred Acquisition Costs and Unearned Revenue for Investment-Oriented Products. Traditional long-duration products For long-duration traditional products, which include whole life insurance, term life insurance, accident and health insurance, long‑term care insurance, and life-contingent single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements, a “lock-in” principle applies. The assumptions used to calculate the benefit liabilities and DAC are set when a policy is issued and do not change with changes in actual experience, unless a loss recognition event occurs. A loss recognition event occurs when current liabilities together with expected future premiums are not sufficient to provide for all future benefits, expenses, and DAC amortization, net of reinsurance. A loss recognition event is driven by observed changes in actual experience or estimates differing significantly from “locked-in” assumptions. Underlying assumptions, including interest rates, are reviewed periodically and updated as appropriate for loss recognition testing purposes. As it relates to business ceded to Fortitude Re, as our accounting policy is to include reinsurance balances when performing loss recognition testing and as there will be no future profits recognized on this business, we will not incur any future loss recognition events related to business ceded to Fortitude Re, absent any decisions by us to recapture the business. The net increases (decreases) to pre-tax income and adjusted pre-tax income as a result of the update of actuarial assumptions for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 are shown in the following tables. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves The following table presents the decrease in pre-tax income resulting from the update of actuarial assumptions in the life insurance companies, by line item as reported in Results of Operations: The following table presents the increase (decrease) in adjusted pre-tax income resulting from the update of actuarial assumptions for the life insurance companies, by segment and product line: In 2022, adjusted pre-tax income included a net unfavorable update of $57 million, primarily in fixed annuities driven by the impact of higher interest rates on expected lapses. In 2021, adjusted pre-tax income included a net unfavorable update of 166 million, primarily in fixed annuities driven by changes to earned rates causing spread compression partially offset by favorable updates to full surrender assumptions, and updates to the Life Insurance reserves for universal life with secondary guarantees and similar features (excluding base policy liabilities and embedded derivatives) model. The updates related to the update of actuarial assumptions in each period are discussed by business segment below. Update of Actuarial Assumptions by Business Segment Impact to Adjusted Pre-tax Income (Loss) Individual Retirement The annual update of actuarial assumptions resulted in net unfavorable impact to adjusted pre-tax income of Individual Retirement of $86 million and $270 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. In 2022, in fixed annuities, the impact of higher interest rates on expected lapses resulted in a net unfavorable impact of $83 million. In 2021, the update of estimated gross profit assumptions resulted in a net unfavorable impact of $274 million which reflected lower projected investment earnings. In 2022, in variable and index annuities, the update of assumptions resulted in a net unfavorable impact of $3 million due to a small model refinement. In 2021, the update of estimated gross profit assumptions resulted in a net favorable impact of $4 million, driven by lower assumed lapses. These updates were largely offset by lower projected investment earnings. Group Retirement In 2022, in Group Retirement, the update of assumptions resulted in a net favorable impact of $2 million. In 2021, the update of estimated gross profit assumptions resulted in a net unfavorable impact of $2 million, driven primarily in the variable annuities line by lower projected investment earnings, largely offset by resetting the reversion to the mean rate. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Life Insurance In 2022, in Life Insurance, the update of actuarial assumptions resulted in a net favorable impact of $24 million, primarily driven by modeling refinements to reflect actual vs expected asset data related to calls and capital gains. In 2021, for the update of actuarial assumptions resulted in a net favorable impact of $106 million, primarily driven by updates to the reserves for universal life with secondary guarantees and similar features (excluding base policy liabilities and embedded derivatives), which was partially offset by lower projected investment earnings and model updates involving reinsurance. Institutional Markets In 2022, in Institutional Markets, the update of actuarial assumptions resulted in a net favorable impact of $3 million, primarily driven by updates to our corporate- and bank-owned life insurance products. Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results Our Individual Retirement and Group Retirement businesses offer variable annuity products with GMWB riders that provide guaranteed living benefit features. The liabilities for GMWBs are accounted for as embedded derivatives and measured at fair value. The fair value of the embedded derivatives may fluctuate significantly based on market interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads, market volatility, policyholder behavior and other factors. In addition to risk-mitigating features in our variable annuity product design, we have an economic hedging program designed to manage market risk from GMWB, including exposures to changes in interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and volatility. The hedging program utilizes derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts and interest rate swap and option contracts, as well as fixed maturity securities. For additional information on market risk management related to these product features, see Enterprise Risk Management – Insurance Risks – Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks – Variable Annuity, Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs. Differences in Valuation of Embedded Derivatives and Economic Hedge Target The variable annuity hedging program utilizes an economic hedge target, which represents an estimate of the underlying economic risks in our GMWB riders. The economic hedge target differs from the GAAP valuation of the GMWB embedded derivatives, creating volatility in our net income (loss) primarily due to the following: • The economic hedge target includes 100 percent of rider fees in present value calculations; the GAAP valuation reflects only those fees attributed to the embedded derivative such that the initial value at contract issue equals zero; • The economic hedge target uses best estimate actuarial assumptions and excludes explicit risk margins used for GAAP valuation, such as margins for policyholder behavior, mortality, and volatility; and • The economic hedge target excludes the non-performance or “own credit” risk adjustment used in the GAAP valuation, which reflects a market participant’s view of our claims-paying ability by incorporating a different spread (the NPA spread) to the curve used to discount projected benefit cash flows. Because the GAAP valuation includes the NPA spread and other explicit risk margins, it has different sensitivities to movements in interest rates and other market factors, and to changes from actuarial assumption updates, than the economic hedge target. For additional information on our valuation methodology for embedded derivatives within policyholder contract deposits, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The market value of the hedge portfolio compared to the economic hedge target at any point in time may be different and is not expected to be fully offsetting. In addition to the derivatives held in conjunction with the variable annuity hedging program, the Life and Retirement companies have cash and invested assets available to cover future claims payable under these guarantees. The primary sources of difference between the change in the fair value of the hedging portfolio and the economic hedge target include: • Basis risk due to the variance between expected and actual fund returns, which may be either positive or negative; • Realized volatility versus implied volatility; • Actual versus expected changes in the hedge target driven by assumptions not subject to hedging, particularly policyholder behavior; and • Risk exposures that we have elected not to explicitly or fully hedge. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves The following table presents a reconciliation between the fair value of the GAAP embedded derivatives and the value of our economic hedge target: Impact on Pre-tax Income (Loss) The impact on our pre-tax income (loss) of variable annuity guaranteed living benefits and related hedging results includes changes in the fair value of the GMWB embedded derivatives, and changes in the fair value of related derivative hedging instruments, both of which are recorded in Net realized gains (losses). Realized gains (losses), as well as net investment income from changes in the fair value of fixed maturity securities used in the hedging program, are excluded from adjusted pre-tax income of Individual Retirement and Group Retirement. The change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives and the change in the value of the hedging portfolio are not expected to be fully offsetting, primarily due to the differences in valuation between the economic hedge target, the GAAP embedded derivatives and the fair value of the hedging portfolio, as discussed above. When corporate credit spreads widen, the change in the NPA spread generally reduces the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities, resulting in a gain, and when corporate credit spreads narrow or tighten, the change in the NPA spread generally increases the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities, resulting in a loss. In addition to changes driven by credit market-related movements in the NPA spread, the NPA balance also reflects changes in business activity and in the net amount at risk from the underlying guaranteed living benefits. The following table presents the net increase (decrease) to consolidated pre-tax income (loss) from changes in the fair value of the GMWB embedded derivatives and related hedges, excluding related DAC amortization: * The change in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity securities recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) were losses of $527 million in 2022 due to higher interest rates and wider credit spreads. The change in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity securities recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) were losses of $122 million in 2021, due to higher interest rates. The change in fair value of available-for-sale fixed maturity securities recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) were gains of $217 million in 2020. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves The twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022 net impact on pre-tax income (loss) of $1.3 billion resulted from: • $1.3 billion gain in the fair value of embedded derivatives excluding NPA, net of the hedging portfolio was driven by increases in interest rates, partially offset by lower equity markets. • $146 million loss due to NPA was driven by the impact of higher interest rates that resulted in NPA volume losses from lower expected GMWB payments, partially offset by a widening of the NPA credit spread. • $79 million gain from the review and update of actuarial assumptions. On an economic basis, the changes in the fair value of the hedge portfolio were partially offset by the changes in the economic hedge target. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, we had a net mark-to-market gain of approximately $714 million from our hedging activities related to our economic hedge target primarily driven by widening credit spreads and update of actuarial assumptions. The twelve-month period ended December 31, 2021 net impact on pre-tax income (loss) of $18 million resulted from: • $529 million gain in the fair value of embedded derivatives excluding NPA, net of the hedging portfolio was driven by increases in interest rates and higher equity markets. • $451 million loss due to NPA was driven by a tightening of the NPA credit spread, and the impact of higher interest rates that resulted in NPA volume losses from lower expected GMWB payments. • $60 million loss from the review and update of actuarial assumptions On an economic basis, the changes in the fair value of the hedge portfolio were partially offset by the changes in the economic hedge target. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, we had a net mark-to-market gain of approximately $109 million from our hedging activities related to our economic hedge target primarily driven by higher equity markets, partially offset by losses from the review and update of actuarial assumptions. Change in Economic Hedge Target The decrease in the economic hedge target liability in 2022 was primarily driven by higher interest rates and widening credit spreads, offset by lower equity markets. The decrease in the economic hedge target liability in 2021 was primarily driven higher interest rates and rising equity markets, partially offset by losses from the review and update of actuarial assumptions. Change in Fair Value of the Hedging Portfolio The changes in the fair value of the economic hedge target and, to a lesser extent, the embedded derivative valuation under GAAP, were offset in part by the following changes in the fair value of the variable annuity hedging portfolio: • Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivative contracts, which included swaps, swaptions and futures, resulted in losses driven by higher interest rates in the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. • Changes in the fair value of equity derivative contracts, which included futures and options, resulted in gains in 2022 driven by the decline in the equity market compared to losses in 2021, primarily due to gains in the equity market. • Changes in the fair value of fixed maturity securities, primarily corporate bonds, are used as a capital-efficient way to economically hedge interest rate and credit spread-related risk. The change in the fair value of the corporate bond hedging program in 2022 reflected losses due to increases in interest rates and widening credit spreads. The change in the fair value of the corporate bond hedging program in 2021 reflected losses due to higher interest rates. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves DAC The following table summarizes the major components of the changes in DAC, including VOBA, within the Life and Retirement companies: (a) DAC balance excluding the amount related to unrealized depreciation (appreciation) of investments was $10.0 billion, $10.5 billion and $10.5 billion at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 , respectively. The net impact to DAC amortization from the update of actuarial assumptions for estimated gross profits, including those reported within change in DAC related to net realized gains (losses), represented one percent and one percent of the DAC balance excluding the amount related to unrealized depreciation (appreciation) of investments as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Reversion to the Mean The projected separate account returns on variable annuities use a reversion-to-the-mean (RTM) approach, under which we consider historical returns and adjust projected returns over an initial future period of five years so that returns converge to the long-term expected rate of return. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, we assumed a 7% long-term expected rate of return.  The criterion to review the five-year RTM anchor date is for the current RTM rate to be less than zero or more than double the long-term growth rate assumption for three consecutive months. When the anchor date is reset, the RTM rate is determined to be approximately one-half of the long-term rate. Should market returns be significantly out of line with our expectations there are caps and floors that if breached would trigger a reassessment of the long-term rate and the RTM rate. For additional discussion of assumptions related to our reversion to the mean methodology, see – Update of Actuarial Assumptions and Models and — Critical Accounting Estimates – Estimated Gross Profits to Value Deferred Acquisition Costs and Unearned Revenue for Investment-Oriented Products. DAC and Reserves Related to Unrealized Appreciation of Investments DAC and Reserves for universal life insurance and investment-oriented products are adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the change in DAC, unearned revenue, and benefit reserves with an offset to Other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI) as if securities available for sale had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields (changes related to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments). Similarly, for long-duration traditional products, significant unrealized appreciation of investments in a sustained low interest rate environment may cause additional future policy benefit liabilities with an offset to OCI to be recorded. Changes related to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments related to DAC and unearned revenue generally move in the opposite direction of the change in unrealized appreciation of the available for sale securities portfolio, reducing the reported DAC and unearned revenue balance when market interest rates decline. Conversely, changes related to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments related to benefit reserves generally move in the same direction as the change in unrealized appreciation of the available for sale securities portfolio, increasing reported future policy benefit liabilities balance when market interest rates decline. Market conditions in 2022 drove a $40.2 billion decrease in the unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of the available for sale fixed maturity securities portfolio held to support the Life and Retirement businesses at December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021. At December 31, 2022, the changes related to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments reflected increases in amortized balances including DAC and unearned revenue reserves, while accrued liabilities such as policyholder benefit liabilities decreased $3.0 billion from December 31, 2021.  Market conditions in the year ended December 31, 2021 drove a $7.4 billion decrease in the unrealized appreciation of available-for-sale fixed maturity securities portfolios held to support our insurance liabilities at December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. At December 31, 2021, the changes related to unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments reflected increases in amortized balances including DAC and unearned revenue reserves, while accrued liabilities such as policyholder benefit liabilities decreased $0.9 billion from December 31, 2020. ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves Reserves The following table presents a rollforward of insurance reserves by operating segments for Life and Retirement, including future policy benefits, policyholder contract deposits, other policyholder funds, and separate account liabilities, as well as Retail Mutual Funds and Group Retirement mutual fund assets under administration: ITEM 7 | Insurance Reserves (a) Excludes amortization of deferred sales inducements. (b) Includes amounts related to policies where AIG has partially ceded to other reinsurers and Fortitude Re. Insurance reserves and Group Retirement mutual fund assets under administration, were comprised of the following balances: (a) Excludes unearned revenue liability. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources OVERVIEW Liquidity refers to the ability to generate sufficient cash resources to meet the cash requirements of our business operations and payment obligations. Capital refers to the long-term financial resources available to support the operation of our businesses, fund business growth, and cover financial and operational needs that arise from adverse circumstances. Our primary source of ongoing capital generation is derived from the profitability of our insurance subsidiaries. We must comply with numerous constraints on our capital positions. These constraints drive the requirements for capital adequacy at AIG and the individual businesses and are based on internally defined risk tolerances, regulatory requirements, rating agency and creditor expectations and business needs. For information regarding our liquidity risk framework, see Enterprise Risk Management – Risk Appetite, Limits, Identification and Measurement and Enterprise Risk Management – Liquidity Risk Management. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to satisfy future requirements and meet our obligations to policyholders, customers, creditors and debt-holders, including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events. Nevertheless, some circumstances may cause our cash or capital needs to exceed projected liquidity or readily deployable capital resources. For information regarding risks associated with our liquidity and capital resources, see Part I, Item 1A. – Risk Factors – Liquidity, Capital and Credit. Depending on market conditions, regulatory and rating agency considerations and other factors, we may take various liability and capital management actions. Liability management actions may include, but are not limited to, repurchasing or redeeming outstanding debt, issuing new debt or engaging in debt exchange offers. Capital management actions may include, but are not limited to, issuing preferred stock, paying dividends to our shareholders on the AIG Common Stock, par value $2.50 per share (AIG Common Stock), paying dividends to the holders of our Series A 5.85% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Series A Preferred Stock), and repurchases of AIG Common Stock. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES HIGHLIGHTS Liquidity to AIG Parent from Subsidiaries During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022, our General Insurance companies distributed dividends of $1.9 billion to AIG Parent or applicable intermediate holding companies. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022, our Life and Retirement companies distributed $753 million of dividends to AIG Parent, of which $231 million were distributed to AIG Parent in its capacity as a public company shareholder of Corebridge after its IPO. Senior Note Offering of Corebridge On April 5, 2022, Corebridge issued senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion, the proceeds of which were used to repay a portion of the $8.3 billion promissory note previously issued by Corebridge to AIG Parent in November 2021 (the Intercompany Note). Hybrid Offering of Corebridge On August 23, 2022, Corebridge issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 6.875% Fixed-to-Fixed Reset Rate Junior Subordinated Notes due 2052, the proceeds of which were used to repay a portion of the Intercompany Note. Delayed Draw Term Loan Facility of Corebridge On September 15, 2022, Corebridge borrowed $1.5 billion under its $1.5 billion 3-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement, a portion of which were used to repay the remainder of the Intercompany Note. Corebridge Initial Public Offering On September 19, 2022, AIG closed on the initial public offering of 80 million shares of Corebridge common stock at a public offering price of $21.00 per share. The aggregate gross proceeds of the offering to AIG , before deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other expenses payable by AIG, were approximately $1.7 billion. General Borrowings During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022, $9.4 billion of debt categorized as general borrowings matured, was repaid or redeemed as follows: • Redeemed €750 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.500% Notes due 2023 for a redemption price of 101.494 percent of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. • Repurchased, through cash tender offers, approximately $6.8 billion aggregate principal amount of certain notes and debentures issued or guaranteed by AIG for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $7.1 billion. • Redeemed $750 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.900% Notes Due 2026 for a redemption price of 100 percent of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. • Redeemed approximately $522 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.750% Notes Due 2025 for a redemption price of 100 percent of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. • Redeemed $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 2.500% Notes Due 2025 for a redemption price of 100 percent of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid intere st. We made interest payments on our general borrowings totaling $729 million during the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022 including interest payments made by AIG Parent on AIG Parent-issued debt instruments of $710 million. Dividends During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022: • We made cash dividend payments of $365.625 per share on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock totaling $29 million. • We made cash dividend payments of $0.32 per share on AIG Common Stock totaling $982 million. • Corebridge made cash dividend payments of $124 million in the aggregate to its shareholders other than AIG, of which $66 million was paid after its IPO. Repurchases of Common Stock During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022, AIG Parent repurchased approximately 90 million shares of AIG Common Stock, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $5.1 billion. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources ANALYSIS OF SOURCES AND USES OF CASH Operating Cash Flow Activities Insurance companies generally receive most premiums in advance of the payment of claims or policy benefits. The ability of insurance companies to generate positive cash flow is affected by the frequency and severity of losses under their insurance policies, policy retention rates, effective management of our investment portfolio and operating expense discipline. Interest payments totaled $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion in the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Excluding interest payments, AIG had operating cash inflows of $5.3 billion in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022 compared to operating cash inflows of $7.6 billion in the prior year. Investing Cash Flow Activities Net cash used in investing activities in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022 was $3.6 billion compared to net cash used in investing activities of $3.3 billion in the prior year. Net cash used in investing activities in 2021 included approximately $4.7 billion of proceeds from divestitures. Financing Cash Flow Activities Net cash used in financing activities in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022 totaled $676 million, reflecting: • $982 million to pay a dividend of $0.32 per share per quarter on AIG Common Stock; • $29 million to pay a dividend of $365.625 per share per quarter on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock; • $124 million paid by Corebridge in the form of cash dividends to shareholders other than AIG, of which $66 million paid after its IPO; • $5.2 billion to repurchase approximately 90 million shares of AIG Common Stock; • $1.5 billion inflow from drawdown by Corebridge on its 3-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement; • $2.0 billion in net outflows from the issuance and repayment of long-term debt; and • $318 million in net outflows from the issuance and repayment of debt of consolidated investment entities. Net cash used in financing activities in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2021 totaled $3.7 billion reflecting: • $1.1 billion to pay a dividend of $0.32 per share per quarter on AIG Common Stock; • $29 million to pay a dividend of $365.625 per share per quarter on AIG’s Series A Preferred Stock; • $2.6 billion to repurchase approximately 50 million shares of AIG Common Stock; • $4.0 billion in net outflows from the issuance, repayment and cash tender of long-term debt; • $156 million in net outflows from the issuance and repayment of debt of consolidated investment entities; and • $2.2 billion in net inflows from the sale of a 9.9 percent equity interest in Corebridge to an affiliate of Blackstone. For information regarding cash flow activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, see Part II, Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Analysis of Sources and Uses of Cash of our 2021 Annual Report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES OF AIG PARENT AND SUBSIDIARIES AIG Parent As of December 31, 2022, AIG Parent and applicable intermediate holding companies had approximately $8.2 billion in liquidity sources held in the form of cash and short-term investments, and also includes AIG Parent's committed, revolving syndicated credit facility of $4.5 billion. As of December 31, 2021, AIG Parent and applicable intermediate holding companies had approximately $15.2 billion in liquidity sources held in the form of cash and short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities, and also includes AIG Parent's committed, revolving syndicated credit facility of $4.5 billion. Following the initial public offering of Corebridge, Corebridge liquidity, including its loan facilities, is no longer reflected in AIG Parent's liquidity. As a public company shareholder of Corebridge, AIG receives its pro rata share of dividends paid by Corebridge on Corebridge common stock after its IPO. AIG Parent’s primary sources of liquidity are dividends, distributions, loans and other payments from subsidiaries and credit facilities. AIG Parent’s primary uses of liquidity are for debt service, capital and liability management, operating expenses and dividends on AIG Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock. We expect to access the debt and preferred equity markets from time to time to meet funding requirements as needed. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources We utilize our capital resources to support our businesses, with the majority of capital allocated to our insurance operations. Should we have or generate more capital than is needed to support our business strategies (including organic or inorganic growth opportunities) or mitigate risks inherent to our business, we may develop plans to distribute such capital to shareholders via dividends or AIG Common Stock repurchase authorizations or deploy such capital towards liability management. Insurance Companies We expect that our insurance companies will be able to continue to satisfy reasonably foreseeable future liquidity requirements and meet their obligations, including those arising from reasonably foreseeable contingencies or events, through cash from operations and, to the extent necessary, monetization of invested assets. Our insurance companies’ liquidity resources are primarily held in the form of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded, investment grade rated fixed maturity securities. Each of our material insurance companies’ liquidity is monitored through various internal liquidity risk measures. The primary sources of liquidity are premiums, fees, reinsurance recoverables and investment income and maturities. The primary uses of liquidity are paid losses, reinsurance payments, benefit claims, surrenders, withdrawals, interest payments, dividends, expenses, investment purchases and collateral requirements. Our insurance companies may require additional funding to meet capital or liquidity needs under certain circumstances. For example, large catastrophes may require us to provide additional support to the affected operations of our General Insurance companies, and a shift in interest rates may require us to provide support to the affected operations of our Life and Retirement companies. Certain of our U.S. Life and Retirement insurance companies are members of the FHLBs in their respective districts. Our borrowings from FHLBs are non-puttable and are used to supplement liquidity or for other uses deemed appropriate by management. Our U.S. Life and Retirement companies had $4.6 billion and $3.6 billion which were due to FHLBs in their respective districts at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively, under funding agreements issued through our Individual Retirement, Group Retirement and Institutional Markets operating segments, which were reported in Policyholder contract deposits. Proceeds from funding agreements are generally invested in fixed income securities and other investments intended to generate spread income. Certain of our U.S. Life and Retirement companies have securities lending programs that lend securities from their investment portfolio to supplement liquidity or for other uses as deemed appropriate by management. Under these programs, these companies lend securities to financial institutions and receive cash as collateral equal to 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities.  These companies had $3.3 billion of securities subject to these agreements at December 31, 2021 and $3.4 billion of liabilities to borrowers for collateral received at December 31, 2021 . As of December 31, 2022 we had no loans outstanding under these programs. AIG Parent and/or certain subsidiaries are parties to several letter of credit agreements with various financial institutions, which issue letters of credit from time to time in support of our insurance companies. These letters of credit are subject to reimbursement by AIG Parent and/or certain subsidiaries in the event of a drawdown of these letters of credit. Letters of credit issued in support of the General Insurance companies totaled approximately $3.4 billion at December 31, 2022. Letters of credit issued in support of the Life and Retirement companies totaled approximately $272 million at December 31, 2022, which are subject to reimbursement by Corebridge with no recourse to AIG Parent. On November 1, 2021, Corebridge declared a dividend payable to AIG Parent in the amount of $8.3 billion. In connection with such dividend, Corebridge issued the Intercompany Note, which, as of September 15, 2022, was repaid in full by Corebridge. Following the initial public offering of Corebridge, AIG holds 77.7 percent of Corebridge common stock, resulting in the tax deconsolidation of Corebridge from AIG. As such, as of September 15, 2022, AIG is no longer receiving tax sharing payments from Corebridge for tax liabilities of subsequent periods. Pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement entered into by Corebridge and AIG on September 14, 2022, the parties will make tax payments to each other in respect of historic tax periods and tax periods prior to the tax deconsolidation of Corebridge from AIG in a manner consistent with pre-existing tax sharing arrangements between the companies. CREDIT FACILITIES AIG Parent maintains a committed, revolving syndicated credit facility (the Facility) with aggregate commitments by the bank syndicate to provide AIG Parent with unsecured revolving loans and/or standby letters of credit of up to $4.5 billion without any limits on the type of borrowings. The Facility is scheduled to expire in November 2026. Our ability to utilize the Facility is conditioned on the satisfaction of certain legal, operating, administrative and financial covenants and other requirements contained in the Facility. These include covenants relating to our maintenance of a specified total consolidated net worth and total consolidated debt to total consolidated capitalization. Failure to satisfy these and other requirements contained in the Facility would restrict our access to the Facility and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. As of December 31, 2022, a total of $4.5 billion remained available under the Facility. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Corebridge maintains a revolving syndicated credit facility (the Corebridge Facility) with aggregate commitments by the bank syndicate to provide Corebridge with unsecured revolving loans and/or standby letters of credit of up to $2.5 billion without any limits on the type of borrowings and with no recourse to AIG Parent. The Corebridge Facility is scheduled to expire in May 2027. As of December 31, 2022, a total of $2.5 billion remained available under the Corebridge Facility. Corebridge also maintains a 3-Year Delayed Draw Term Loan Agreement (the DDTL Facility) with aggregate commitments by the bank syndicate to provide Corebridge with delayed draw term loans of up to $1.5 billion, with no recourse to AIG Parent. On September 15, 2022, Corebridge borrowed $1.5 billion under the DDTL Facility, a portion of which was used to repay the remaining amount due to AIG Parent under the Intercompany Note. The DDTL Facility is scheduled to mature in February 2025. As of December 31, 2022, a total of $1.5 billion of borrowings are outstanding under the DDTL Facility. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes material contractual obligations in total, and by remaining maturity: (a) Represents loss reserves, undiscounted and gross of reinsurance. (b) Does not reflect $ 5.9 billion of debt of consolidated investment entities, for which recourse is limited to the assets of the respective investment entities and for which there is no recourse to the general credit of AIG. In addition, on September 15, 2022, Corebridge borrowed an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion under the 3-Year DDTL Facility through October 20, 2022. Corebridge continued this borrowing through June 21, 2023 and has the ability to further continue this borrowing through the final maturity date of the DDTL Facility on February 25, 2025. Loss Reserves Loss reserves relate to our General Insurance companies and represent estimates of future loss and loss adjustment expense payments based on historical loss development payment patterns. The amounts presented in the above table are undiscounted and therefore exceed the liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, including allowance for credit losses, as presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the payments by period presented above could be materially different from actual required payments. We believe that our General Insurance companies maintain adequate financial resources to meet the actual required payments under these obligations. For additional information on loss reserves, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Loss Reserves and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Insurance and Investment Contract Liabilities Insurance and investment contract liabilities, including GIC liabilities, relate to our Life and Retirement companies. These liabilities include various investment-type products with contractually scheduled maturities, including periodic payments. These liabilities also include benefit and claim liabilities, of which a significant portion represents policies and contracts that do not have stated contractual maturity dates and may not result in any future payment obligations. For these policies and contracts (i) we are not currently making payments until the occurrence of an insurable event, such as death or disability, (ii) payments are conditional on survivorship or (iii) payment may occur due to a surrender or other non-scheduled event beyond our control. We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these contractual policy benefits.  The amounts presented in the above table are undiscounted and therefore exceed the liabilities for future policy benefits for life and accident and health insurance contracts, and policyholder contract deposits included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the payments by period presented above could be materially different from actual required payments. We believe that our Life and Retirement companies have adequate financial resources to meet the payments actually required under these obligations. For additional information on loss reserves, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Loss Reserves and Notes 12 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources Long-Term Debt and Interest Payments on Long-Term Debt The amounts presented in the above table represent AIG's total long-term debt outstanding and associated future interest payments due on such debt. For additional information on outstanding debt, see – Debt. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS In the normal course of business, AIG and our subsidiaries enter into commitments under which we may be required to make payments in the future on a contingent basis. The following table summarizes Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Commercial Commitments in total, and by remaining maturity: (a) Excludes guarantees, CMAs or other support arrangements between AIG consolidated entities. (b) Excludes commitments with respect to pension plans. The annual pension contribution for 2023 is expected to be approximately $58 million. Investment commitments We enter into investment commitments in the normal course of business that are aligned with and support our investment strategies. These represent commitments to investment in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds, as well as commitments to purchase and develop real estate in the United States and abroad. The commitments to invest in private equity funds, hedge funds and other funds are called at the discretion of each fund, as needed for funding new investments or expenses of the fund. The expiration of these commitments is estimated based on the expected life cycle of the related funds, consistent with past trends of requirements for funding. These commitments are primarily made by insurance and real estate subsidiaries of the Company. We also enter into arrangements with variable interest entities (VIEs) and consolidate a VIE when we are the primary beneficiary of the entity. For additional information on investment commitments and VIEs, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Commitments to extend credit As part of our normal course of business lending operations, we enter into commitments to fund mortgage loans at certain interest rates and various other terms, within a stated period of time. Such commitments are legally binding and generally made by insurance subsidiaries of the Company. Letters of credit AIG is party to several letter of credit agreements with various financial institutions, which issue letters of credit from time to time for the benefit of third parties in support of our businesses. These letters of credit are subject to reimbursement by AIG in the event of a drawdown. Indemnification agreements For information regarding our indemnification agreements, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources DEBT AIG expects to service and repay general borrowings through maturing investments and dispositions of invested assets, future cash flows from operations, cash flows generated from invested assets, future debt or preferred stock issuances and other financing arrangements. AIG borrowings supported by assets of AIG include guaranteed investment agreements (GIAs) that are supported by cash and investments held by AIG Parent, certain non-insurance subsidiaries and amounts posted to third parties as collateral for the repayment of those obligations. For additional information on GIAs and associated collateral posted, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table provides the rollforward of AIG’s total debt outstanding: (a) AIG Parent guarantees all such debt, except for Series AIGFP matched notes and bonds payable and AIG notes and bonds payable, which are direct obligations of AIG Parent. Collateral posted to third parties was $63 million at December 31, 2022 and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2021. This collateral primarily consists of securities of the U.S. government and government sponsored entities and generally cannot be repledged or resold by the counterparties. (b) We have entered into a guarantee reimbursement agreement with Corebridge and AIG Life Holdings, Inc. (AIGLH) which provides that Corebridge and AIGLH will reimburse AIG for the full amount of any payment made by or on behalf of AIG pursuant to AIG’s guarantee of the AIGLH notes and junior subordinated debt. We have also entered into a collateral agreement with Corebridge and AIGLH which provides that in the event of: (i) a ratings downgrade of Corebridge or AIGLH long-term unsecured indebtedness below specified levels or (ii) the failure by AIGLH to pay principal and interest on the AIGLH debt when due, Corebridge and AIGLH must collateralize an amount equal to the sum of: (i) 100 percent of the principal amount outstanding, (ii) accrued and unpaid interest and (iii) 100 percent of the net present value of scheduled interest payments. through the maturity dates of the AIGLH debt. (c) At December 31, 2022, includes debt of consolidated investment entities primarily related to real estate investments of $1.5 billion and other securitization vehicles of $4.4 billion. At December 31, 2021, includes debt of consolidated investment entities related to real estate investments of $1.9 billion and other securitization vehicles of $4.5 billion. (d) Includes reclassifications of debt between AIG general borrowings and AIG borrowings supported by assets. (e) Represents debt for AIGFP and its subsidiaries that were previously consolidated. (f) Includes the effect of consolidating previously unconsolidated partnerships. In the next four quarters, unless redeemed or purchased, no material long-term debt is due to mature. Corebridge has the ability to further continue the DDTL borrowing (currently due June 21, 2023) through the final maturity date of the DDTL Facility on February 25, 2025. For additional information on debt outstanding, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources CREDIT RATINGS Credit ratings estimate a company’s ability to meet its obligations and may directly affect the cost and availability of financing to that company. The following table presents the credit ratings of AIG and certain of its subsidiaries as of the date of this filing. Figures in parentheses indicate the relative ranking of the ratings within the agency’s rating categories; that ranking refers only to the major rating category and not to the modifiers assigned by the rating agencies. (a) Moody’s appends numerical modifiers 1, 2 and 3 to the generic rating categories to show relative position within the rating categories. (b) S&P ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. (c) Fitch Ratings Inc. (Fitch) ratings may be modified by the addition of a plus or minus sign to show relative standing within the major rating categories. These credit ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. Ratings may also be withdrawn at our request. We are party to some agreements that contain “ratings triggers.” Depending on the ratings maintained by one or more rating agencies, these triggers could result in (i) the termination or limitation of credit availability or a requirement for accelerated repayment, (ii) the termination of business contracts or (iii) a requirement to post collateral for the benefit of counterparties. In the event of a downgrade of AIG’s long-term senior debt ratings, certain AIG entities would be required to post additional collateral under some derivative and other transactions, or certain of the counterparties of such AIG entities would be permitted to terminate such transactions early. The actual amount of collateral that we would be required to post to counterparties in the event of such downgrades, or the aggregate amount of payments that we could be required to make, depends on market conditions, the fair value of outstanding affected transactions and other factors prevailing at the time of the downgrade. FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS Financial Strength ratings estimate an insurance company’s ability to pay its obligations under an insurance policy. The following table presents the ratings of our significant insurance subsidiaries as of the date of this filing. On December 16, 2022, A.M. Best revised the outlook to positive from stable for the Long-Term Issuer Credit Ratings (Long-Term ICRs) and affirmed the Financial Strength Rating (FSR) of ‘A’ and the Long-Term ICR of ‘a’ of AIG’s General Insurance subsidiaries.  The outlook of the FSR is stable. These financial strength ratings are current opinions of the rating agencies. They may be changed, suspended or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies as a result of changes in, or unavailability of, information or based on other circumstances. For information regarding the effects of downgrades in our credit ratings and  financial strength ratings, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity, Capital and Credit – “A downgrade by one or more of the rating agencies in the Insurer Financial Strength ratings of our insurance or reinsurance companies could limit their ability to write or prevent them from writing new business and impair their retention of customers and in-force business, and a downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity”. ITEM 7 | Liquidity and Capital Resources REGULATION AND SUPERVISION For a discussion of our regulation and supervision by different regulatory authorities in the United States and abroad, including with respect to our liquidity and capital resources, see Part I, Item 1. Business – Regulation and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Regulation. DIVIDENDS On February 15, 2023, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG Common Stock of $0.32 per share, payable on March 31, 2023 to shareholders of record on March 17, 2023. On February 15, 2023, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend on AIG's Series A Preferred Stock of $365.625 per share, payable on March 15, 2023 to holders of record on February 28, 2023. The payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on various factors. For further detail on our dividends, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. REPURCHASES OF AIG COMMON STOCK Our Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of shares of AIG Common Stock and as of February 10, 2023 $3.8 billion remained under the share repurchase authorization. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2022, AIG Parent repurchased approximately 90 million shares of AIG Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $5.1 billion. The timing of any future share repurchases will depend on market conditions, our business and strategic plans, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and other factors, as discussed further in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS Payments of dividends to AIG by its insurance subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions imposed by regulatory authorities. For information regarding restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiaries, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management OVERVIEW We consider risk management an integral part of our business strategy and a key element of our approach to corporate governance. We have an integrated process for managing risks throughout our organization in accordance with our firm-wide risk appetite. Our Board of Directors has oversight responsibility for the management of risk. Our Enterprise Risk Management Department supervises and integrates the risk management functions in each of our business units, providing senior management with a consolidated view of AIG’s major risk positions. ERM embeds risk management in our key day-to-day business processes and in identifying, assessing, quantifying, monitoring, reporting, and mitigating the risks taken by AIG. Nevertheless, our risk management efforts may not always be successful and material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or financial condition may occur. For further information regarding the risks associated with our business and operations, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. AIG employs a Three Lines of Defense model. AIG’s business leaders assume full accountability for the risks and controls in their operating units, and ERM performs a review, challenge and oversight function. The third line consists of our Internal Audit Group that provides independent assurance to AIG’s Board of Directors. RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Our risk governance structure fosters the development and maintenance of a risk and control culture that encompasses all significant risk categories impacting our lines of business and functions. Accountability for the implementation and oversight of risk policies is aligned with individual business leaders, with the risk committees receiving regular reports regarding compliance with each policy to support risk governance at our corporate level as well as in each business unit. We review our governance and committee structure on a regular basis and make changes as appropriate to continue to effectively manage and govern both our risks and risk-taking activities. Our Board of Directors oversees the management of risk through its Risk and Capital Committee (RCC) and Audit Committee. These committees regularly interact with other committees of the Board of Directors which are further described below. Our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) reports to both the RCC and our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our CRO is also a member of the Executive Leadership Team providing ERM the opportunity to contribute to, review, monitor and consider the impact of changes in strategy. The Group Risk Committee (GRC): The GRC is the senior management group responsible for assessing all significant risk issues on a global basis to protect our financial strength and reputation. The GRC is chaired by our CRO. Our CRO reports periodically on behalf of the GRC to both the RCC and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The GRC is supported by management committees including the Business Unit Risk Committees and Legal Entity Risk Committees. These committees are comprised of senior executives and experienced business representatives from a range of functions and business units throughout AIG and its subsidiaries. These committees are charged with identifying, analyzing and reviewing specific risk matters within their respective mandates. In addition, various working groups are in place in support of the GRC to manage and monitor the various risks across the organization. RISK APPETITE, LIMITS, IDENTIFICATION AND MEASUREMENT Risk Appetite Framework Our Risk Appetite Framework integrates stakeholder interests, strategic business goals and available financial resources. We balance these by seeking to take measured risks that are expected to generate repeatable, sustainable earnings and create long-term value for our shareholders. The framework includes our risk appetite statement approved by the Board of Directors and a set of supporting tools, including risk tolerances, risk limits and policies, which we use to manage our risk profile and financial resources. These measures are set at the AIG Parent level as well as the legal entity level and cover consolidated and insurance company capital and liquidity ratios. Our risk tolerances take into consideration regulatory requirements, rating agency expectations, and business needs. The GRC routinely reviews the level of risk taken by the consolidated organization in relation to the established risk tolerances. A consolidated risk report is also presented periodically to the RCC by our CRO. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Risk Limits A key component of our Risk Appetite Framework is having a process in place that establishes and maintains appropriate tolerances and limits on the material risks identified for our core businesses and facilitates the monitoring and meeting of both internal and external stakeholder expectations. To support the monitoring and management of AIG’s and its business units’ material risks, ERM has an established limits framework that employs a three-tiered hierarchy: • Board-level risk tolerances are AIG’s aggregate consolidated capital and liquidity limits. They define the minimum level of consolidated capital and liquidity that we should maintain. These board-level risk tolerances are approved by the Board of Directors and monitored by the RCC. • AIG management level limits are risk type specific limits at the AIG consolidated level. These limits are approved by our CRO with consultation from the GRC. • Business unit and legal entity level limits are set to address key risks identified for the business unit and legal entities, protect capital and liquidity at legal entities and/or meet legal entity specific requirements of regulators and rating agencies. These limits are defined by the business unit and legal entity risk officers. All limits are reviewed by the GRC or relevant business unit risk committees on a periodic basis and revisions, if applicable, are approved by those committees. Limit breaches are required to be reported in a timely manner and are documented and escalated in accordance with their level of severity or materiality. Risk Identification and Measurement We conduct risk identification through multiple processes at the business unit and corporate level focused on capturing our material risks. A key initiative is our integrated bottom-up risk identification and assessment process which is conducted down to the product-line level. In addition, we perform an annual top-down risk assessment to identify top risks and assign owners to ensure these risks are appropriately addressed and managed. These processes are used as critical input to enhance and develop our analytics for measuring and assessing risks across the organization. We employ various approaches to measure, monitor and manage risk exposures, including the utilization of a variety of metrics and early warning indicators. We use a proprietary internal capital and stress testing framework to measure our quantifiable risks. The internal capital framework quantifies our aggregate economic risk at a given confidence interval, after taking into account diversification benefits between risk factors and business lines. We leverage the internal capital framework to help inform our consolidated risk consumption and profile as well as risk and capital allocation for our businesses. The stress testing framework assesses our aggregate exposure to our most significant financial and insurance risks, including the risks in each of our key insurance company subsidiaries in relation to its capital needs under stress, risks inherent in our non-insurance company subsidiaries, and risks to AIG consolidated capital. We use this information to support the assessment of resources needed at the AIG Parent level to support our subsidiaries and capital resources required to maintain consolidated company target capitalization levels. CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT Credit risk is defined as the risk that our customers or counterparties are unable or unwilling to repay their contractual obligations when they become due. Credit risk may also result from a downgrade of a counterparty’s credit ratings or a widening of its credit spreads. Direct and indirect credit exposures may arise from, but are not limited to, fixed income investments, equity securities, deposits, commercial paper investments, securities purchased under agreements to resell and repurchase agreements, corporate and consumer loans, leases, reinsurance and retrocessional insurance recoverables, counterparty risk arising from derivatives activities, collateral extended to counterparties, insurance risk cessions to third parties, financial guarantees, letters of credit, and certain General Insurance businesses. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Our credit risks are managed by teams of credit professionals, subject to ERM oversight and various control processes. ERM is primarily responsible for the development, implementation and maintenance of a risk management framework. Our credit risk framework incorporates risk identification and measurement, risk limits, risk delegations to authorized credit professionals throughout the company, and credit reserving. Credit reserving includes but is not limited to the development of a proper framework, policies and procedures for establishing accurate identification of (i) reserves for credit losses and (ii) other-than-temporary impairments for securities portfolios. We monitor and control our company-wide credit risk concentrations and attempt to avoid unwanted or excessive risk accumulations, whether funded or unfunded. To minimize the level of credit risk in some circumstances, we may require mitigants, such as third-party guarantees, reinsurance or collateral, including commercial bank-issued letters of credit and trust collateral accounts. We treat these guarantees, reinsurance recoverables, and letters of credit as credit exposure and include them in our risk concentration exposure data. We also closely monitor the quality of any trust collateral accounts. For additional information on our credit concentrations and credit exposures, see Investments – Credit Ratings – Available-for-Sale Investments. Derivative Transactions We utilize derivatives principally to enable us to hedge exposure associated with changes in levels of interest rates, currencies, credit, commodities, equity prices and other risks. Credit risk associated with derivative counterparties exists for a derivative contract when that contract has a positive fair value to us. All derivative transactions must be transacted within counterparty limits that have been approved by ERM. We evaluate counterparty credit quality via an internal analysis that is consistent with the AIG Credit Policy. We require credit enhancements in connection with specific transactions based on, among other things, the creditworthiness of the counterparties, and transaction size and maturity. Furthermore, we enter into certain agreements that have the benefit of set-off and close-out netting provisions, such as ISDA Master Agreements. These provisions provide that, in the case of an early termination of a transaction, we can set off receivables from a counterparty against payables to the same counterparty arising out of all covered transactions. As a result, where a legally enforceable netting agreement exists, the fair value of the transaction with the counterparty represents the net sum of estimated fair values. For additional information related to derivative transactions, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT Market risk is defined as the risk of adverse impact due to systemic movements in one or more of the following market risk drivers: equity and commodity prices, residential and commercial real estate values, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange, inflation, and their respective levels of volatility. We are exposed to market risks primarily within our insurance and capital markets activities, on both the asset and the liability sides of our balance sheet through on- and off-balance sheet exposures. The scope and magnitude of our market risk exposures is managed in a manner consistent with our risk appetite statement. Our market risk management framework focuses on quantifying the financial repercussions of changes in the above mentioned market risk drivers. Many of our market risk exposures, including exposures to changes in levels of interest rates and equity prices, are associated with the asset and liability exposures of our Life and Retirement companies. These exposures are generally long-term in nature. Also, we have equity market risk sensitive surrenders in our variable annuity product portfolio. These interactive asset-liability types of risk exposures are regularly monitored in accordance with the risk governance framework noted above. Market risk is overseen at the corporate level within ERM through the CRO. Market risk is managed by our finance, treasury and investment management corporate functions, collectively, and in partnership with ERM. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Our market risk measurement framework was developed with the main objective of communicating the range and scale of our market risk exposures. We monitor risks through multiple lenses that include economic, GAAP and statutory reporting frameworks at various levels of business consolidation. This process aims to establish a comprehensive coverage of potential implications from adverse market risk developments. We use a number of approaches to measure market risk exposure including sensitivity analysis, scenario analysis and stress testing. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Market Risk Sensitivities The following table provides estimates of sensitivity to changes in yield curves, equity prices and FX rates on our financial instruments and excludes approximately $172.3 billion and $178.1 billion of insurance liabilities as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. AIG believes that the interest rate sensitivities of these insurance and other liabilities serve as an offset to the net interest rate risk of the financial assets presented in the table below. In addition, the table excludes $27.1 billion of interest rate sensitive assets and $2.0 billion of equity and alternative investments supporting the Fortitude Re funds withheld arrangements as the contractual returns related to the assets are transferred to Fortitude Re, as well as $30.4 billion of related funds withheld payables. (a) The economic effect is the difference between the estimated fair value and the effect of a 100 bps parallel increase in all yield curves on the estimated fair value. The estimated fair values for Mortgage and other loans receivable, Policyholder contract deposits (Investment-type contracts) and Short-term and long-term debt were $43.0 billion, $132.0 billion and $18.7 billion at December 31, 2022, respectively. The estimated fair values for Mortgage and other loans receivable, Policyholder contract deposits (Investment-type contracts) and Long-term debt were $45.7 billion, $143.1 billion and $25.7 billion at December 31, 2021, respectively. (b) At December 31, 2022, the analysis covered $248.5 billion of $280.9 billion interest-rate sensitive assets. As indicated above, excluded were $23.0 billion and $4.1 billion of fixed maturity securities and loans, respectively, supporting the Fortitude Re funds withheld arrangements. In addition, $3.0 billion of loans and $2.6 billion of assets across various asset categories were excluded due to modeling limitations. At December 31, 2021, the analysis covered $290.0 billion of $331.5 billion interest-rate sensitive assets. As indicated above, excluded were $33.7 billion and $3.6 billion of fixed maturity securities and loans, respectively, supporting the Fortitude Re funds withheld arrangements. In addition, $2.3 billion of loans and $2.0 billion of assets across various asset categories were excluded due to modeling limitations. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management (c) At December 31, 2022 the analysis excluded $0.4 billion of AIGLH borrowings, $0.3 billion of Validus borrowings, $1 million of borrowings from Glatfelter Insurance Group (Glatfelter) and $0.3 billion of AIG Japan Holdings loans. At December 31, 2021, the analysis excluded $0.4 billion of AIGLH borrowings, $0.3 billion of Validus borrowings, $2 million of borrowings from Glatfelter and $0.3 billion of AIG Japan Holdings loans. (d) The balance sheet exposures for equity contracts and variable annuity and other embedded derivatives are also reflected under “Interest rate sensitive liabilities” above, and are not additive. (e) The majority of the foreign currency exposure is reported on a one quarter lag. Foreign currency-denominated net asset position reflects our aggregated non-U.S. dollar assets less our aggregated non-U.S. dollar liabilities on a GAAP basis, with certain adjustments. Interest rate sensitivity is defined as the change in value with respect to a 100 basis point parallel shift up in the interest rate environment, calculated as: scenario value minus base value, where base value is the value under the yield curves as of the period end and scenario value is the value reflecting a 100 basis point parallel increase in all yield curves. We evaluate our interest rate risk without considering effects of correlation of changes in levels of interest rate with other key market risks or other assumptions used for calculating the values of our financial assets and liabilities. We evaluate our equity price risk without considering effects of correlation of changes in equity prices with other key market risks or other assumptions used for calculating the values of our financial assets and liabilities, as the stress scenario does not reflect the impact of basis risk which we use in the development of our hedging strategy. The risk monitoring responsibilities, owned by the business units, include ensuring compliance with market risk limits and escalation and remediation of limit breaches. Such activities must be reported to the ERM Market Risk team by the relevant business unit. This monitoring approach is aligned with our overall risk limits framework. For additional information on our three-tiered hierarchy of limits, see Risk Appetite, Limits, Identification and Measurement – Risk Limits. LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that our financial condition will be adversely affected by the inability or perceived inability to meet our short-term cash, collateral or other financial obligations as they come due. AIG and its legal entities seek to maintain sufficient liquidity both during the normal course of business and under defined liquidity stress scenarios to ensure that sufficient cash will be available to meet the obligations as they come due. AIG Parent liquidity risk tolerance levels are designed to allow us to meet our financial obligations for a minimum of six months under a liquidity stress scenario. We maintain liquidity limits and minimum coverage ratios designed to ensure that funding needs are met under stress conditions. If we project that we could breach these tolerances, we assess and determine appropriate liquidity management actions. However, market or other conditions in effect at that time may not permit us to achieve an increase in liquidity sources or a reduction in liquidity requirements. Liquidity risk is overseen at the corporate level within ERM. The CRO has responsibility for the oversight of the Liquidity Risk Management Framework and delegates the day-to-day implementation of this framework to the AIG Treasurer. Our treasury function manages liquidity risk, subject to ERM oversight and various control processes. Our Liquidity Risk Management Framework includes liquidity and funding policies and monitoring tools to address AIG-specific, broader industry and market-related liquidity events. Comprehensive cash flow projections under normal conditions are the primary component for identifying and measuring liquidity risk. We produce comprehensive liquidity projections over varying time horizons that incorporate all relevant liquidity sources and uses and include known and likely cash inflows and outflows. In addition, we perform stress testing by identifying liquidity stress scenarios and assessing the effects of these scenarios on our cash flow and liquidity. We use a number of approaches to measure our liquidity risk exposure including minimum liquidity limits, coverage ratios, coverage flow forecasts, and stress testing. Relevant liquidity reporting is produced and reported regularly to AIG Parent and business unit risk committees. The frequency, content, and nature of reporting will vary for each business unit and legal entity, based on its complexity, risk profile, activities and size. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss, or other adverse consequences, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events. Operational risk includes legal, regulatory, technology, compliance, third-party and business continuity risks, but excludes business and strategy risks. Operational risk is inherent in each of our business units and functions and can have many impacts, including but not limited to: unexpected economic losses or gains, reputational harm due to negative publicity, regulatory action from supervisory agencies and operational and business disruptions, and/or damage to customer relationships. The Operational Risk Management (ORM) function within ERM oversees adherence to the operational risk policy and risk and control framework, which includes risk identification, assessment, measurement, management and monitoring of operational risk exposures. In line with the Three Lines of Defense Model, the ORM program includes, but is not limited to, Issue/Risk event capture, analysis and treatment, risk assessments, and key risk indicators. ORM, working together with other control and assurance functions (e.g., Compliance, Financial Controls Unit, Enterprise Resiliency, and Internal Audit) through the risk and control framework, provides an independent view of operational risks for each business, and works with the business units, corporate functions, and the first line Risk and Control Owners. Cybersecurity Risk AIG, like other global companies, continues to witness the increased sophistication and activities of unauthorized parties attempting cyber and other computer-related penetrations such as “denial of service” attacks, phishing, untargeted but sophisticated and automated attacks, and other disruptive software in an effort to compromise systems, networks and obtain sensitive information. Cybersecurity risks may also derive from unintentional human error or intentional malice on the part of AIG employees or third parties who have authorized access to AIG’s systems or information. ERM works closely with and supports the risk management practices of Information Technology, the Information Security Office and the business units and functions that form the lines of defense against the cybersecurity risks that we face. AIG’s Board of Directors is regularly briefed by management on AIG’s cybersecurity matters, including threats, policies, practices and ongoing efforts to improve security. For additional information regarding the privacy data protection and cybersecurity regulations to which we are subject, see Part I, Item 1. Business – Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity. For additional discussion of cybersecurity risks, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Business and Operations. INSURANCE RISKS Insurance risk is defined as the risk of actual claims experience and/or policyholder behavior being materially different than initially expected at the inception of an insurance contract. Uncertainties related to insurance risk can lead to deviations in magnitude and/or timing of prospective cash flows associated with our liabilities compared to what we expected. We manage our business risk oversight activities through our insurance operations. A primary goal in managing our insurance operations is to achieve an acceptable risk-adjusted return on equity. To achieve this goal, we must be disciplined in risk selection, premium adequacy, and appropriate terms and conditions to cover the risk accepted. We operate our insurance businesses on a global basis, and we are exposed to a wide variety of risks with different time horizons. We manage these risks throughout the organization, both centrally and locally, through a number of processes and procedures, including, but not limited to: • pricing and risk selection models including regular monitoring; • pricing approval processes; • pre-launch approval of product design, development and distribution; • underwriting approval processes and authorities; • modeling and reporting of aggregations and limit concentrations at multiple levels (policy, line of business, product group, country, individual/group, correlation and catastrophic risk events); • risk transfer tools such as reinsurance, both internal and third-party; • review and challenge of reserves to ensure comprehensive analysis with established escalation procedures to provide appropriate transparency in reserving decisions and judgments made in the establishment of reserves; • management of relationship between assets and liabilities, including hedging; • model risk management framework and validation processes; • actuarial profitability and reserve reviews; and • experience monitoring and assumption updates. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management We closely manage insurance risk by monitoring and controlling the nature and geographic location of the risks in each underwritten line of business, concentrations in industries, the terms and conditions of the underwriting and the premiums we charge for taking on the risk. We analyze concentrations of risks using various modeling techniques, including both probability distributions (stochastic) and/or single-point estimates (deterministic) approaches. Risk Measurement, Monitoring and Limits We use a number of approaches to measure our insurance risk exposure including sensitivity and scenario analyses, stochastic methods, and experience studies. Additionally, there are risk-specific assessment tools, both internal and third-party, in place to better manage the variety of insurance risks to which we are exposed. We monitor concentrations of exposure through insurance limits and thresholds aggregated along dimensions such as geography, industry, or counterparty. The risk monitoring responsibilities of the business units include ensuring compliance with insurance risk limits and escalation and remediation of limit breaches. Such activities are reported to management by all business units for informative decision-making on a regular basis. This monitoring approach is aligned with our overall risk limits framework. For additional information on our three-tiered hierarchy of limits, see Risk Appetite, Limits, Identification and Measurement – Risk Limits. General Insurance Companies’ Key Risks We manage our risks through risk review and selection processes, exposure limitations, exclusions, deductibles, self-insured retentions, coverage limits, attachment points, and reinsurance. This management is supported by sound underwriting practices, pricing procedures and the use of actuarial analysis to help determine overall adequacy of provisions for insurance. Underwriting practices and pricing procedures incorporate historical experience, changes in underlying exposure, current regulation and judicial decisions as well as proposed or anticipated regulatory changes or societal trends. For General Insurance companies, risks primarily include the following: • Loss Reserves – The potential inadequacy of the liabilities we establish for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is a key risk faced by the General Insurance companies. We manage this uncertainty through internal controls and oversight of the loss reserve setting process, as well as reviews by external experts. For further information, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Loss Reserves. • Underwriting – The potential inadequacy of premiums charged for future risk periods on risks underwritten in our portfolios can impact the General Insurance companies’ ability to achieve an underwriting profit. We develop pricing based on our estimates of losses and expenses, but factors such as market pressures and the inherent uncertainty and complexity in estimating losses may result in premiums that are inadequate to generate underwriting profit. • Catastrophe Exposure – Our business is exposed to various catastrophic events in which multiple losses can occur and affect multiple lines of business in any calendar year. Natural disasters, man-made catastrophes or pandemic disease, could also adversely affect our business and operating results to the extent they are covered by our insurance products. Concentration of exposure in certain industries or geographies may cause us to suffer disproportionate losses. • Single Risk Loss Exposure – Our business is exposed to loss events that have the potential to generate losses from a single insured client. Events such as fires or explosions can result in loss activity for our clients. The net risk to us is managed to acceptable limits established by the Chief Underwriting Officer through a combination of internal underwriting standards and external reinsurance. • Reinsurance – Since we use reinsurance to limit our losses, we are exposed to risks associated with reinsurance including the recoverability of expected payments from reinsurers due to either an inability or unwillingness to pay, contracts that do not respond properly to the event or actual reinsurance coverage that is different than anticipated. The inability or unwillingness to pay is considered credit risk and is monitored through our credit risk management framework. Natural Catastrophe Risk We manage catastrophe exposure with multiple approaches such as setting risk limits based on aggregate Probable Maximum Loss (PML) modeling, monitoring overall exposures and risk accumulations, modifying our gross underwriting standards, and purchasing catastrophe reinsurance through both the traditional reinsurance and capital markets in addition to other reinsurance protections. We use third-party catastrophe risk models and other tools to evaluate and simulate frequency and severity of catastrophic events and associated losses to our portfolios of exposures. We apply adjustments to modeled losses to account for loss adjustment expenses, model biases, data quality and non-modeled risks. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management We recognize that climate change has implications for insurance industry exposure to natural catastrophe risk. With multiple levels of risk management processes in place, we actively analyze the latest climate science and policies to anticipate potential changes to our risk profile, pricing models and strategic planning. In addition, we provide insurance products and services to help our clients be proactive against the threat of climate change. Our internal product development, underwriting, and modeling, will continue to adapt to and evolve with the developing risk exposures attributed to climate change. The table below details our modeled estimates of PML, net of reinsurance, on an annual aggregate basis. The 1-in-100 and 1-in-250 PMLs are the annual aggregate probable maximum losses with probability of 1 percent and 0.4 percent in a year, respectively. Estimates as of December 31, 2022 reflect our in-force portfolio for exposures as of October 1, 2022, except for AIG Re with exposures as of January 1, 2023, and all inuring reinsurance covers as of December 31, 2022, except for the catastrophe reinsurance programs, which are as of January 1, 2023 and reflected as of such date. The following table presents an overview of annual aggregate modeled losses for world-wide all perils and exposures arising from our largest primarily modeled perils: (a) The world-wide all peril loss estimate includes wildfire exposure. (b) The U.S. hurricane loss estimate includes losses to Commercial and Personal Property from hurricane hazards of wind and storm surge. (c) The U.S. earthquake loss estimates represent exposure to Commercial and Personal Property, Workers’ Compensation (U.S.) and A&H business lines. (d) Japan Typhoon loss estimate represents exposure to Commercial and Personal Property. (e) Japan Earthquake loss estimate represents exposure to Commercial and Personal Property and A&H business lines. (f) Taxed at the statutory tax rate of 21 percent for both the U.S. and Japanese modeled losses. The majority of Japan exposures are ceded to our U.S. Pool. AIG, along with other property casualty insurance and reinsurance companies, uses industry-recognized catastrophe models and applies proprietary modeling processes and assumptions to arrive at loss estimates. The use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Since there is no industry standard for assumptions and preparation of insured data for use in these models, our modeled losses may not be comparable to estimates made by other companies. Also, the modeled results are based on the assumption that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations to us under the terms of the reinsurance arrangements. However, reinsurance recoverables may not be fully collectible. Therefore, these estimates are inherently uncertain and may not accurately reflect our net exposure, inclusive of credit risk, to these events. Our 2023 property catastrophe reinsurance program is a worldwide program providing both aggregate and per occurrence protection, with differing per occurrence and aggregate retentions for North America, Japan, and Rest of World. In 2023, we made changes to our North America property catastrophe reinsurance program to reflect our improving portfolio with attachment points of $500 million for commercial portfolio and $300 million for Lexington and Programs business. Our property catastrophe treaty per occurrence structures largely stayed the same as 2022 for International, with Japan’s retention unchanged from prior year at $200 million and Rest of World attachment point of $125 million. We have also purchased property per risk covers that provide protection against large losses globally, which include those emanating from non-critical catastrophe events (all events except for named windstorm and earthquake) globally as well as critical catastrophe events (named windstorm and earthquake) outside North America. Actual results in any period are likely to vary, perhaps materially, from the modeled scenarios. The occurrence of one or more severe events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. For additional information, see also Part 1, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Reserves and Exposures. Terrorism Risk We actively monitor terrorism risk and manage exposures to losses from terrorist attacks. Terrorism risks are modeled using a third-party vendor model for various terrorism attack modes and scenarios. Adjustments are made to account for vendor model gaps and the nature of the General Insurance companies’ exposures. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Our largest terrorism concentrations are in New York City, and estimated losses are largely driven by the Property and Workers’ Compensation lines of business. Our exposure to terrorism risk in the U.S. is mitigated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (TRIPRA) in addition to limited private reinsurance protections. TRIPRA covers certified terrorist attacks within the U.S. or U.S. missions and against certain U.S. carriers or vessels and excludes certain lines of business as specified by applicable law. We offer terrorism coverage in many other countries through various insurance products and participate in country terrorism pools when applicable. International terrorism exposure is estimated using scenario-based modeling and exposure concentration is monitored routinely. Targeted reinsurance purchases are made for some lines of business to cover potential losses due to terrorist attacks. We also rely on the government-sponsored and government-arranged terrorism reinsurance programs, including pools, in force in applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. Life and Retirement Companies’ Key Risks We manage risk through product design, experience monitoring, pricing and underwriting discipline, risk limits and thresholds, reinsurance and active monitoring and management of the alignment between risk and cash flow profiles of assets and liabilities, and hedging instruments. For Life and Retirement companies, risks include the following: • Longevity risk – represents the risk of an increase in liabilities associated with an insurance product, e.g. an annuity policy or a payout benefit as a result of actual mortality experience being lower than the expected mortality experience. This risk exists in a number of our product lines but is most significant for our annuity products. • Morbidity risk – represents the risk arising from actual morbidity (e.g. illness, disability or disease) incidence rate being higher than expected or the length of the claims extending longer than expected resulting in a higher overall benefit payout. This risk exists in a number of our product lines such as individual and group accident and health and long-term care businesses which for the most part are in run-off, and ceded to Fortitude Re. • Mortality (including pandemic) risk – represents the risk of unexpected loss arising from current actual mortality experience being higher than expected mortality experience. This risk exists in a number of our product lines, but is most significant for our life insurance products. • Policyholder behavior risk (including full and partial surrender/lapses) – represents the risk that actual policyholder behavior differs from expected behavior in a manner that has an adverse effect on our operating results. There are many related assumptions made when products are sold, including how long the contracts will persist and other assumptions which impact the expected utilization of contract benefits, options and guarantees. Actual experience can vary significantly from these assumptions. This risk is impacted by a number of factors including changes in personal policyholder situations and market conditions, especially changes in the levels of yields, equity prices, tax law, regulations, competitive landscape and policyholder preferences. The emergence of significant adverse experience compared to the experience we expected and priced for could require an adjustment to benefit reserves and/or DAC, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results of operations for a particular period. For additional information on the impact of actual and expected experience on DAC and benefit reserves, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Future Policy Benefits for Life and Accident and Health Insurance Contracts and Critical Accounting Estimates – Guaranteed Benefit Features of Variable Annuity, Fixed Annuity and Fixed Index Annuity Products. For additional information on business risks, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – Business and Operations. Variable Annuity, Fixed Index Annuity and Index Universal Life Risk Management and Hedging Programs Our Individual and Group Retirement businesses offer variable and fixed index annuity products with guaranteed living benefit (GLB) riders that guarantee a certain level of lifetime benefits. Under current GAAP rules, variable and certain index annuity GLBs are accounted for as embedded derivatives measured at fair value, with changes in the fair value recorded in Other realized gains (losses). GLB features subject the Life and Retirement companies to market risk, including exposure to changes in levels of interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and market volatility. Product design is the first step in managing our exposure to these market risks. Risk mitigation features of our variable annuity product designs include GLB rider fees indexed to a broad equity market volatility index, required minimum allocations to fixed accounts to reduce overall equity exposure, and for some of the variable annuity products, the utilization of volatility control funds. We utilize asset liability management and hedging programs to manage economic exposure to market risks that are not fully mitigated through product designs. Our hedging program is designed to offset certain changes in the economic value of embedded derivatives associated with our variable annuity, index annuity and index universal life liabilities, within established thresholds. The hedging program is designed to provide additional protection against large and combined movements in levels of interest rates, equity prices, credit spreads and market volatility under multiple scenarios. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Our hedging program utilizes an economic hedge target, which represents our estimate of the underlying economic risks in the embedded derivatives. The hedge target is established via a stochastic projection. This stochastic projection method uses best estimate assumptions for policyholder behavior in conjunction with market scenarios calibrated to observable equity and interest rate option prices. Policyholder behaviors are regularly evaluated to compare current assumptions to actual experience and, if appropriate, changes are made to the policyholder behavior assumptions. The risk of changes in policyholder behavior is not explicitly hedged, and such differences between expected and actual policyholder behaviors will result in hedge ineffectiveness. Due to differences between the calculation of the value of the economic hedge target and the U.S. GAAP valuation of the embedded derivative, we expect relative movements in the economic hedge target and the U.S. GAAP embedded derivative valuation will vary over time with changes in levels of equity markets, interest rates, credit spreads and volatility. For information on the impact on our consolidated pre-tax income from the change in fair value of the embedded derivatives and the hedging portfolio, as well as additional discussion of differences between the economic hedge target and the valuation of the embedded derivatives, see Insurance Reserves – Life and Annuity Future Policy Benefits, Policyholder Contract Deposits and DAC – Variable Annuity Guaranteed Benefits and Hedging Results. In designing the hedging portfolio for our variable annuity hedging program, we make assumptions that are used in projections of future performance of the underlying mutual funds elected by the variable annuity policyholders. We use these assumptions to project future policy level account value changes. We map the mutual funds to a set of publicly traded indices that we believe best represent the liability to be hedged. Basis risk exists due to the variance between funds returns projected under these assumptions and actual fund returns, which may result in variances between changes in the value of the hedging portfolio and changes in the economic value of the hedge liability target. Net hedge results and the associated cost of hedging are also impacted by differences between realized volatility and implied volatility. Our hedging programs associated with index annuity and index universal life products, are designed to manage market risk associated with the index crediting strategies offered on these product platforms. Similarly, as with the variable annuities, there are differences between the calculation of the value of the economic liability hedge target and the U.S. GAAP valuation of the index annuity and index universal life embedded derivatives, which can lead to variances in their relative movements. To manage the capital market exposures embedded within the economic liability hedge targets, we identify and hedge market sensitivities to changes in equity markets, interest rates, volatility and for variable annuities, credit spreads. Each hedge program purchases derivative instruments or securities having sensitivities that offset corresponding sensitivities in the associated economic hedge targets, within internally defined threshold limits. Since the relative movements of the hedging portfolio and the economic hedge target vary over time or with market changes, the net exposure can be outside the threshold limits. As such, periodic adjustments are made to the hedging portfolio in order to return the net exposure to within the threshold limits. Our hedging programs utilize various derivative instruments, including but not limited to equity options, futures contracts, interest rate swaps and swaptions. In addition, within the variable annuities hedging program, we purchase certain fixed income securities classified as available for sale. To minimize counterparty credit risk, the majority of the derivative instruments utilized within the hedging programs are cleared through global exchanges. Over the counter derivatives utilized within the hedging programs are subject to two-way collateralization, managed under a net zero collateral threshold. The hedging programs are monitored on a daily basis to ensure that the economic liability hedge targets and the associated derivative portfolios stay within the threshold limits, pursuant to the approved hedging strategies. In addition, monthly stress tests are performed to determine the program’s effectiveness relative to the applicable limits, under an array of combined severe market stresses in equity prices, interest rates, volatility and credit spreads. Finally, hedging strategies are reviewed regularly to gauge their effectiveness in managing our market exposures in the context of our overall risk appetite. Reinsurance Activities We purchase reinsurance for our insurance and reinsurance operations. Reinsurance facilitates insurance risk management (retention, volatility, concentrations) and capital planning. We may purchase reinsurance on a pooled basis. Pooling of our reinsurance risks enables us to purchase reinsurance more efficiently at a consolidated level, manage global counterparty risk and relationships and manage global catastrophe risks. Reinsurance is used primarily to manage overall capital adequacy and mitigate the insurance loss (Life and Non-Life) exposure related to certain events, such as natural and man-made catastrophes, death events, or single policy level events. Our subsidiaries operate worldwide primarily by underwriting and accepting risks for their direct account on a gross basis and reinsuring a portion of the exposure on either an individual risk or an aggregate basis to the extent those risks exceed the desired retention level. In addition, as a condition of certain direct underwriting transactions, we may be required by clients, agents or regulation to cede all or a portion of risks to specified reinsurance entities, such as captives, other insurers, local reinsurers and compulsory pools. ITEM 7 | Enterprise Risk Management Reinsurance markets include: • Traditional local and global reinsurance markets including those in the United States, Bermuda, London and Europe, accessed directly and through reinsurance intermediaries; • Capital markets through insurance-linked securities and collateralized reinsurance transactions, such as catastrophe bonds, sidecars and similar vehicles; and • Other insurers that engage in both direct and assumed reinsurance. The form of reinsurance we may choose from time to time will generally depend on whether we are seeking: • proportional reinsurance, whereby we cede a specified percentage of premiums and losses to reinsurers; • non-proportional or excess of loss reinsurance, whereby we cede all or a specified portion of losses in excess of a specified amount on a per risk, per occurrence (including catastrophe reinsurance) or aggregate basis; or • facultative contracts that reinsure individual policies. We continually evaluate the relative attractiveness of different forms of reinsurance contracts and different markets that may be used to achieve our risk and profitability objectives. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve our subsidiaries from their direct obligations to insureds. However, an effective reinsurance program substantially mitigates our exposure to potentially significant losses. In certain markets, we are required to participate on a proportional basis in reinsurance pools based on our relative share of direct writings in those markets. Such mandatory reinsurance generally covers higher-risk consumer exposures such as assigned-risk automobile and earthquake, as well as certain commercial exposures such as workers’ compensation. Reinsurance Recoverable AIG’s reinsurance recoverable assets are comprised of paid losses recoverable, ceded loss reserves, ceded reserves for unearned premiums, and Life and Annuity reinsurance recoverables (ceded policy and claim reserves and policyholder contract deposits). At December 31, 2022, total reinsurance recoverable assets were $71.6 billion. These assets include general reinsurance paid losses recoverable of $4.4 billion, ceded loss reserves of $32.2 billion including reserves for IBNR claims, and ceded reserves for unearned premiums of $4.3 billion, as well as life reinsurance recoverable of $30.7 billion. The methods used to estimate IBNR and to establish the resulting ultimate losses involve projecting the frequency and severity of losses over multiple years. These methods are continually reviewed and updated by management. Any adjustments are reflected in income. We believe that the amount recorded for ceded loss reserves at December 31, 2022 reflects a reasonable estimate of the ultimate losses recoverable. Actual losses may, however, differ from the reserves currently ceded. The Reinsurance Credit Department (RCD) conducts periodic detailed assessments of the financial strength and condition of current and potential reinsurers, both foreign and domestic. The RCD monitors both the financial condition of reinsurers as well as the total reinsurance recoverable ceded to reinsurers, and sets limits with regard to the amount and type of exposure we are willing to take with reinsurers. As part of these assessments, we attempt to identify whether a reinsurer is appropriately licensed, assess its financial capacity and liquidity, and evaluate the local economic and financial environment in which a foreign reinsurer operates. The RCD reviews the nature of the risks ceded and the need for measures, including collateral to mitigate credit risk. For example, in our treaty reinsurance contracts, we frequently include provisions that require a reinsurer to post collateral or use other measures to reduce exposure when a referenced event occurs. Furthermore, we limit our unsecured exposure to reinsurers through the use of credit triggers such as insurer financial strength rating downgrades, declines in regulatory capital, or relevant RBC ratios fall below certain levels. We also set maximum limits for reinsurance recoverable exposure, which in some cases is the recoverable amount plus an estimate of the maximum potential exposure from unexpected events for a reinsurer. In addition, credit executives within ERM review reinsurer exposures and credit limits and approve reinsurer credit limits above specified levels. Finally, even where we conclude that uncollateralized credit risk is acceptable, we require collateral from active reinsurance counterparties where it is necessary for our subsidiaries to recognize the reinsurance recoverable assets for statutory accounting purposes. At December 31, 2022, we held $74.3 billion of collateral, in the form of funds withheld, securities in reinsurance trust accounts and/or irrevocable letters of credit, in support of reinsurance recoverable assets from unaffiliated reinsurers. At December 31, 2022, we had no significant reinsurance recoverable due from any individual reinsurer that was financially troubled. Reduced profitability associated with lower interest rates, market volatility and catastrophe losses (including COVID-19), could potentially result in reduced capacity or rating downgrades for some reinsurers. The RCD, in conjunction with the credit executives within ERM, reviews these developments, monitors compliance with credit triggers that may require the reinsurer to post collateral, and seeks to use other appropriate means to mitigate any material risks arising from these developments. For additional information on reinsurance recoverable, see Critical Accounting Estimates – Reinsurance Assets. Glossary Glossary Accident year The annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. Accident year combined ratio, as adjusted (Accident year combined ratio, ex-CAT) The combined ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting. Accident year loss ratio, as adjusted (Accident year loss ratio, ex-CAT) The loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses and related reinstatement premiums, prior year development, net of premium adjustments, and the impact of reserve discounting. Acquisition ratio Acquisition costs divided by net premiums earned. Acquisition costs are those costs incurred to acquire new and renewal insurance contracts and also include the amortization of VOBA and DAC. Acquisition costs vary with sales and include, but are not limited to, commissions, premium taxes, direct marketing costs and certain costs of personnel engaged in sales support activities such as underwriting. Adjusted revenues exclude Net realized gains (losses), income from non-operating litigation settlements (included in Other income for GAAP purposes), changes in fair value of securities used to hedge guaranteed living benefits (included in Net investment income for GAAP purposes) and income from elimination of the international reporting lag. Adjusted revenues is a GAAP measure for our segments. Assets under administration include assets under management and Retail Mutual Funds and Group Retirement mutual fund assets that we sell or administer. Attritional losses are losses recorded in the current accident year, which are not catastrophe losses. AUM Assets under management include assets in the general and separate accounts of our subsidiaries that support liabilities and surplus related to our life and annuity insurance products and the notional value of stable value wrap contracts. Base yield Net investment income excluding income from alternative investments and other enhancements, as a percentage of average base invested asset portfolio, which excludes alternative investments, other bond securities and certain other investments for which the fair value option has been elected. Book value per common share, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI) adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets and deferred tax assets (DTA) (Adjusted book value per common share) is a non-GAAP measure and is used to show the amount of our net worth on a per-common share basis. Adjusted book value per common share is derived by dividing total AIG common shareholders’ equity, excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets and DTA (Adjusted common shareholders’ equity), by total common shares outstanding. Casualty insurance Insurance that is primarily associated with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the insured, and the legal liability imposed on the insured as a result. Combined ratio Sum of the loss ratio and the acquisition and general operating expense ratios. CSA Credit Support Annex A legal document generally associated with an ISDA Master Agreement that provides for collateral postings which could vary depending on ratings and threshold levels. Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)/Non-Performance Risk Adjustment (NPA) The CVA/NPA adjusts the valuation of derivatives to account for nonperformance risk of our counterparty with respect to all net derivative assets positions. The CVA/NPA also accounts for our own credit risk in the fair value measurement of all derivative net liability positions and liabilities where AIG has elected the fair value option, when appropriate. DAC Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Deferred costs that are incremental and directly related to the successful acquisition of new business or renewal of existing business. DAC Related to Unrealized Appreciation (Depreciation) of Investments An adjustment to DAC and Reserves for investment-oriented products, equal to the change in DAC and unearned revenue amortization that would have been recorded if fixed maturity securities available for sale at fair value had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. An adjustment to benefit reserves for investment-oriented products is also recognized to reflect the application of the benefit ratio to the accumulated assessments that would have been recorded if fixed maturity securities available for sale at fair value had been sold at their stated aggregate fair value and the proceeds reinvested at current yields. For long-duration traditional products, significant unrealized appreciation of investments in a sustained low interest rate environment may cause additional future policy benefit liabilities to be recorded. Glossary Deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance Retroactive reinsurance is a reinsurance contract in which an assuming entity agrees to reimburse a ceding entity for liabilities incurred as a result of past insurable events. If the amount of premium paid by the ceding reinsurer is less than the related ceded loss reserves, the resulting gain is deferred and amortized over the settlement period of the reserves. Any related development on the ceded loss reserves recoverable under the contract would increase the deferred gain if unfavorable, or decrease the deferred gain if favorable. DSI Deferred Sales Inducements Represents enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to contract holders on certain annuity and investment contract products that meet the criteria to be deferred and amortized over the life of the contract. Expense ratio Sum of acquisition expenses and general operating expenses, divided by net premiums earned. General operating expense ratio General operating expenses divided by net premiums earned. General operating expenses are those costs that are generally attributed to the support infrastructure of the organization and include but are not limited to personnel costs, projects and bad debt expenses. General operating expenses exclude losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred, acquisition expenses, and investment expenses. GIC/GIA Guaranteed Investment Contract/Guaranteed Investment Agreement A contract whereby the seller provides a guaranteed repayment of principal and a fixed or floating interest rate for a predetermined period of time. IBNR Incurred But Not Reported Estimates of claims that have been incurred but not reported to us. ISDA Master Agreement An agreement between two counterparties, which may have multiple derivative transactions with each other governed by such agreement, that generally provides for the net settlement of all or a specified group of these derivative transactions, as well as pledged collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of a default on, or affecting any, one derivative transaction or a termination event affecting all, or a specified group of, derivative transactions. Loss Adjustment Expenses The expenses directly attributed to settling and paying claims of insureds and include, but are not limited to, legal fees, adjuster’s fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim settlement costs. Loan-to-value ratio Principal amount of loan amount divided by appraised value of collateral securing the loan. Loss ratio Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred divided by net premiums earned. Loss reserve development The increase or decrease in incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses related to prior years as a result of the re-estimation of loss reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserves Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses. The estimated ultimate cost of settling claims relating to insured events that have occurred on or before the balance sheet date, whether or not reported to the insurer at that date. Master netting agreement An agreement between two counterparties who have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts covered by such agreement, as well as pledged collateral, through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of default on or upon termination of any one such contract. Natural catastrophe losses are generally weather or seismic events having a net impact on AIG in excess of $10 million each and man-made catastrophe losses, such as terrorism and civil disorders that exceed the $10 million threshold. Net premiums written represent the sales of an insurer, adjusted for reinsurance premiums assumed and ceded, during a given period. Net premiums earned are the revenue of an insurer for covering risk during a given period. Net premiums written are a measure of performance for a sales period, while net premiums earned are a measure of performance for a coverage period. Noncontrolling interests The portion of equity ownership in a consolidated subsidiary not attributable to the controlling parent company. Policy fees An amount added to a policy premium, or deducted from a policy cash value or contract holder account, to reflect the cost of issuing a policy, establishing the required records, sending premium notices and other related expenses. Pool A reinsurance arrangement whereby all of the underwriting results of the pool members are combined and then shared by each member in accordance with its pool participation percentage. Premiums and deposits – Life and Retirement includes direct and assumed amounts received and earned on traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and life-contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal life, investment-type annuity contracts, FHLB funding agreements and mutual funds. Prior year development See Loss reserve development . RBC Risk-Based Capital A formula designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus compared to the risks inherent in its business. Glossary Reinstatement premiums Premiums on an insurance policy over and above the initial premium imposed at the beginning of the policy payable to reinsurers or receivable from insurers to restore coverage limits that have been reduced or exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess of loss reinsurance contracts. Reinsurance The practice whereby one insurer, the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued. Reinsurance recoverables are comprised of paid losses recoverable, ceded loss reserves, ceded reserves for unearned premiums, and Life and Annuity reinsurance recoverables (ceded policy and claim reserves and policyholder contract deposits). Retroactive reinsurance See Deferred gain on retroactive reinsurance . Return on common equity – Adjusted after-tax income excluding AOCI adjusted for the cumulative unrealized gains and losses related to Fortitude Re funds withheld assets and DTA (Adjusted return on common equity) is a non-GAAP measure and is used to show the rate of return on common shareholders’ equity. Adjusted return on common equity is derived by dividing actual or annualized adjusted after-tax income attributable to AIG common shareholders by average Adjusted common shareholders’ equity. Subrogation The amount of recovery for claims we have paid our policyholders, generally from a negligent third party or such party’s insurer. Surrender charge A charge levied against an investor for the early withdrawal of funds from a life insurance or annuity contract, or for the cancellation of the agreement. Surrender rate represents annualized surrenders and withdrawals as a percentage of average reserves and Group Retirement mutual fund assets under administration. Unearned premium reserve Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect unearned premiums, which are usually refundable to policyholders if an insurance or reinsurance contract is canceled prior to expiration of the contract term. VOBA Value of Business Acquired Present value of projected future gross profits from in-force policies of acquired businesses. Acronyms