********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. You should carefully consider them, along with the other information presented in this Report. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Business, Strategic and Operational Risks • Our revenues and profits may decline if we are unable to maintain relationships with significant clients, distributors and other parties, or renew contracts with them on favorable terms, or if those parties face financial, reputational or regulatory issues. 18 • Significant competitive pressures, changes in customer preferences and disruption could adversely affect our results of operations. • The success of our business depends on the execution of our strategy, including through the continuing service of key executives, senior leaders, highly-skilled personnel and a high-performing workforce. • We may be unable to grow our business if we cannot find suitable acquisition candidates at attractive prices, integrate acquired businesses effectively or identify new areas for organic growth. • Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a business continuity event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Failure to successfully manage vendors and other third parties could adversely affect our business. • We face risks associated with our international operations. • Our mobile business is subject to the risk of declines in the value of mobile devices in our inventory, and to export compliance and other risks. • Sales of our products and services may decline if we are unable to develop and maintain distribution sources or attract and retain sales representatives and executives with key client relationships. • We face risks associated with joint ventures, franchises and investments in which we share ownership or management with third parties. • Catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses, including as a result of climate change, could materially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. • Negative publicity relating to our business or industry may adversely affect our financial results. Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks • General economic, financial market and political conditions and conditions in the markets in which we operate may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto have disrupted and will likely continue to disrupt normal business activity, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Financial Risks • Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, requiring us to establish additional reserves or to incur additional expense for settling unreserved liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital. • We may be unable to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs, which could reduce our profitability. • A decline in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • A credit rating agency downgrade of our corporate senior debt rating could adversely impact on our business. • Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. • An impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations and book value. • Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. • Unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may significantly and adversely affect our access to capital and our ability to pay our debts or expenses. • Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk, including changes in interest rates, that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • Our investment portfolio is subject to credit, liquidity and other risks that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers. • Through reinsurance, we have sold or exited businesses that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the reinsurers become insolvent. 19 • Due to the structure of our commission program, we are exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness and reporting systems of some of our agents, third-party administrators and clients. • Our subsidiaries’ inability to pay us sufficient dividends could prevent us from meeting our obligations and paying future stockholder dividends. • Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock or repurchase shares may be limited. • Actual results may differ materially from the analytical models we use to assist in our decision-making in key areas such as pricing, catastrophe risks, reserving and capital management. Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks • The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. • We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. • The costs of complying with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and reputation. Legal and Regulatory Risks • We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business, and violations or alleged violations of such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. • Changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. • Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. • Our business is subject to risks related to reductions in the insurance premium rates we charge. • Changes in insurance regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. General Risk Factors • Our common stock may be subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. • Employee misconduct could harm us by subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm. • Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. For a more complete discussion of these risks, please see below. Business, Strategic and Operational Risks Our revenues and profits may decline if we are unable to maintain relationships with significant clients, distributors and other parties, or renew contracts with them on favorable terms, or if those parties face financial, reputational or regulatory issues . The success of our business depends largely on our relationships and contractual arrangements with significant clients, distributors and other parties, including vendors. Many of these arrangements are exclusive and some rely on preferred provider or similar relationships. If our key clients, distributors, vendors or other parties terminate important business arrangements with us, or renew contracts on terms less favorable to us, we may fail to meet our business objectives and targets, and our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Each of our Global Lifestyle and Global Housing segments receives a substantial portion of its revenue from a few clients. A reduction in business with or the loss of one or more of our significant clients could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows of individual segments or the Company. Reliance on a few significant clients may weaken our bargaining power, and we may be unable to renew contracts with them without concessions (including up-front payments) or on favorable terms or at all. Examples of important business arrangements include, at Global Lifestyle, exclusive and non-exclusive relationships with mobile device carriers, retailers, dealerships, MSOs, OEMs and financial and other institutions through which we distribute our products and services. At Global Housing, we have exclusive and non-exclusive relationships with mortgage lenders and servicers, manufactured housing lenders, property managers and financial and other institutions. We are subject to the risk that clients, distributors and other parties may face financial difficulties, reputational issues, problems with respect to their own products and services or regulatory restrictions or compliance issues that may lead to a decrease in or cessation of sales of our products and services and have other adverse impacts on our results of operations or 20 financial condition. In addition, our clients and other parties with whom we do business may choose to exit lines of business that we service or may disintermediate us by developing internal capabilities, products or services that would allow them to service their clients without our involvement. Furthermore, if one or more of our clients or distributors, for example in the wireless and related markets, consolidate or align themselves with other companies with whom we do not do business, they may choose to utilize or distribute the products and services of our competitors, which could materially reduce our revenues and profits. Significant competitive pressures, changes in customer preferences and disruption could adversely affect our results of operations . We compete for business, customers, agents and other distribution relationships with many insurance companies, financial services companies, mobile device repair and logistics companies, technology and software companies and specialized competitors that focus on one market, product or service. Some of our competitors may offer a broader array of products and services than we do or be better able to tailor those products and services to customer needs, including through better technology systems or infrastructure, or may have greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower costs, greater financial strength, more resources or higher ratings. There is a risk that purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms and offerings from competitors, vendors or other third parties, including pricing and technology. Additionally, customers may turn to our competitors as a result of our failure, or perceived failure, to deliver on customer expectations, product or service flaws, technology issues, gaps in operational support or other issues affecting customer experience. As a result, competition may adversely affect the persistency of our policies, our ability to sell products and provide services and our revenues and results of operations. To remain competitive in many of our businesses, we must anticipate and respond effectively to changes in customer preferences, new industry standards, evolving distribution models, and disruptive technology developments and alternate business models. The evolving nature of consumer needs and preferences and improvements in technology could result in a reduction in consumer demand and in the prices of the products and services we offer. In addition, across many of our businesses, we must respond to the threat of disruption by traditional players, such as insurers, as well as from new entrants, such as “Insurtech” start-up companies and others. These players are focused on using technology and innovation to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the markets in which we operate. In order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new technologies and new ways to deliver our products and services. If we do not anticipate and respond to customer preferences and disruptive changes, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The success of our business depends on the execution of our strategy, including through the continuing service of key executives, senior leaders, highly-skilled personnel and a high-performing workforce . Our strategy is focused on delivering long-term profitable growth. As part of our strategy, we are developing new and innovative products and services, and enhancing existing offerings. We are investing in technology and other capabilities to continuously enhance our customer experience, while seeking to increase efficiencies. We will continue to incur expenses related to, among other things: investments in digital capabilities and large-scale, critical programs, such as information technology systems and infrastructure; research and development of new products and capabilities; and costs associated with the implementation of new contracts and businesses in runoff. Our long-term strategy depends on successful operational execution and our ability to execute on our transformational initiatives, including acquisitions, combined with our ability to innovate and develop new products, achieve operating efficiencies and attract and retain a global and diverse workforce. We rely on the continued service of key executives, senior leaders, highly-skilled personnel and a high-performing workforce to achieve our long-term strategy. We believe that our future success depends in substantial part on our ability to attract, recruit, hire, motivate, develop and retain a high-performing workforce, particularly those with specialized industry knowledge or within in-demand areas such as digital, customer experience, data and analytics and supply chain, across our lines of businesses. Doing so may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in economic and industry conditions; employee expectations; the effectiveness of our talent strategies and total rewards and wellbeing programs, including compensation; and fluctuations in the labor market, including rising wages and competition for talent, which has increased due to labor shortages. In addition, and in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, many companies, including us, have recently transitioned a significant portion of the workforce to remote work on a full- or part-time basis, which may result in increased competition for highly-skilled personnel who are no longer limited to employment opportunities within a particular geographic location. Working remotely may reduce employee engagement, efficiency and productivity, which may drive increased turnover or cause product development delays, hamper new product innovation, and otherwise adversely affect our business and impede the achievement of our strategy. We rely on attracting and retaining talent, including at the executive officer level, with diverse backgrounds and experiences to effectively oversee our businesses and our long-term strategy. If we do not succeed in attracting, retaining and motivating key personnel, including diverse personnel, our revenue growth and profitability may be 21 materially adversely affected. Furthermore, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for and successfully carry out the succession of our key executives and senior leaders. We may be unable to grow our business if we cannot find suitable acquisition candidates at attractive prices, integrate acquired businesses effectively or identify new areas for organic growth. We expect acquisitions to continue to play a role in the growth of the Company. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or new venture opportunities, to finance or complete such transactions on acceptable terms. Additionally, the integration of acquired businesses may result in significant challenges and additional costs, and we may be unable to accomplish such transactions smoothly or successfully. Acquisitions may not provide us with the benefits that we anticipate, require significant effort and expenditures, and entail numerous risks, difficulties and uncertainties. These include, among others, diversion of management’s attention and resources to the integration of operations and infrastructure, which could otherwise have been devoted to other strategic opportunities; inaccurate assessment of risks and liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings, including the incurrence of unexpected integration costs; difficulties in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; exposure to jurisdictions or businesses with heightened legal and regulatory risks, including corruption, which may increase compliance costs; difficulties in integrating operations and systems, including cybersecurity and other technology systems, and internal control over financial reporting; difficulties in assimilating employees and corporate cultures; failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows, business opportunities and growth prospects; an increase in our indebtedness or future borrowing costs; and limitations on our ability to access additional capital when needed. Our failure to adequately address these and other acquisition risks, difficulties and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our stock may decline if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully, if the integration takes longer than expected or fails to achieve financial benefits to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors, or if the effect of the business combination on the financial results of the combined company is otherwise not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. Our ability to effectively identify and capitalize on opportunities for organic growth depends on, among other things, our ability to: deliver on customer expectations and provide a positive customer experience; successfully execute large-scale, critical programs and projects in a timely and cost-effective manner; identify and successfully enter and market our services in new geographic markets and market segments; recruit and retain qualified personnel; coordinate our efforts across various geographic markets and market segments; maintain and grow relationships with our existing customers and expand our customer base; offer new products and services; form strategic alliances and partnerships; secure key vendor and distributor relationships; and access sufficient capital. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing on our organic growth initiatives or that those initiatives will provide us with the expected benefits. Our failure to effectively identify and capitalize on opportunities for organic growth could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a business continuity event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we experience a local or regional business continuity event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, computer, telecommunication or other systems failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue operations will depend on an effective disaster recovery plan and system, including the continued availability of our personnel, vendors and other third parties and facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. We have from time to time experienced business continuity events, including events that impacted the availability of our systems. See “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired businesses could adversely affect our business .” Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage and interruption. If a business continuity event occurs, we could lose Company, customer, vendor and other third-party data, lose significant processing capability or experience interruptions to our operations or delivery of products and services to our clients and their customers, which has occurred from time to time and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A cyber attack or other business continuity event affecting us or key third parties with whom we work could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. An extended outage could result in the loss of income and clients, reputational damage, substantial volatility in our financial results and a decline in our revenues. See “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations .” 22 The risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, such as New York City and Atlanta, where some of our key corporate offices are located, certain catastrophe-prone areas, such as Miami, Florida, where we have significant operations, and the cities in which our data centers are located. This risk is heightened in certain countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to higher potential threat of terrorist attacks, military conflicts, political instability and data breaches. A disaster or other business continuity event on a significant scale or affecting our key businesses or our data centers, or our inability to successfully and quickly recover from such an event and any legislative and regulatory responses thereto, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, loss of customers or damaged customer relationships, legal liability and other adverse consequences. Our liability insurance policies may not fully cover, in type or amount, the cost of a successful recovery in the event of such a disruption. Failure to successfully manage vendors and other third parties could adversely affect our business. As we continue to improve operating efficiencies, we rely on vendors and other third parties, including independent contractors, to conduct business and provide services to our clients. For example, we use vendors and other third parties for business, investment management, information technology, call centers, facilities management and other services. We take steps to monitor and regulate the performance of vendors and other third parties, including in our agreements with such parties, but our oversight controls could prove inadequate. Since we do not fully control the actions of vendors and other third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions or operations adversely impact us and replacing them could create significant delay and expense. If these vendors or other third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or if they fail to comply with legal or regulatory requirements in a high-quality and timely manner, our operations and reputation could be compromised, we may not realize the anticipated economic and other benefits from these arrangements, and we could suffer adverse legal, regulatory and financial consequences. In addition, these third parties face their own technology, operating, business and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee or Company information or failure to comply with applicable law, could cause harm to our reputation or otherwise expose us to liability. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients or employees, damage to our reputation and harm to our business. If we are unable to attract and retain relationships with qualified vendors, independent contractors and other third-party service providers, or if changes in law or judicial decisions require independent contractors to be classified as employees, our business could be significantly adversely affected. To the extent we engage international vendors or third parties to provide services or carry out business functions, we are exposed to the risks that accompany operations in a foreign jurisdiction, including international economic and political conditions, foreign laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency values and, potentially, increased risk of data breaches. For more information on the risks associated with the use of international vendors and third parties, see “ – We face risks associated with our international operations. ” We face risks associated with our international operations. Our international operations face economic, political, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational, supply chain and other risks. For example, we face the risk of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations and the associated risk and costs of non-compliance; exposure to undeveloped or evolving legal systems, which may result in unpredictable or inconsistent application of laws and regulations; exposure to commercial, political, legal or regulatory corruption; political, economic or other instability in countries in which we conduct business, including possible terrorist acts; the imposition of sanctions, tariffs, trade barriers or other protectionist laws or business practices that favor local competition, increase costs and may otherwise adversely affect our business; inflation and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; diminished ability to enforce our contractual rights; potential increased risk of data breaches; differences in cultural environments; changes in regulatory requirements, including changes in regulatory treatment of certain products or services; exposure to local economic conditions and its impact on our clients’ performance and creditworthiness; and restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. investments and earnings. If our business model is not successful in a particular country or region, or a country or region in which we do business experiences economic, political or other instability, we may lose all or part of our investment in that country or region. As we continue to expand in select worldwide markets, our business becomes increasingly exposed to these and other risks, in particular where certain countries or regions have recently experienced economic or political instability, such as in Argentina and Brazil. As we engage with international clients, we may make certain up-front commission payments or similar cash outlays, which we may not recover if the business does not develop as we expect. These up-front payments are typically supported by various protections, such as letters of credit, letters of guarantee and real estate, but we may not fully or timely recover amounts 23 owed to us as a result of difficulties in enforcing contracts or judgments in undeveloped or evolving legal systems and other factors. As our international business grows, we may rely increasingly on fronting carriers in certain countries to maintain their licenses and product approvals, satisfy local regulatory requirements and continue in business. If they fail to do so, our business, reputation and relationships with our customers could be adversely affected. For additional information on the significant international regulations that apply to us, including data protection regulations, and the risks relating thereto, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation – International Regulation” in this Report, “ – Legal and Regulatory Risks – We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business, and violations or alleged violations of such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations, ” “ – Legal and Regulatory Risks – Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions ” and “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – The costs of complying with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and reputation. ” Our mobile business is subject to the risk of declines in the value of mobile devices in our inventory, and to export compliance and other risks . The value of the mobile devices that we collect and refurbish for our clients may fall below the prices we have paid or guaranteed, which could adversely affect our profitability. In our mobile business, we carry inventory to meet the delivery requirements of certain clients. These devices are ultimately disposed of through sales to third parties. Our mobile business is subject to the risk that the value or availability of devices and parts will be adversely affected by technological changes affecting the usefulness or desirability of the devices and parts, physical problems resulting from faulty design or manufacturing, increased competition, supply chain constraints and growing industry emphasis on cost containment. The value of devices may be impacted by an escalation of trade tensions between the U.S. and China, including with respect to trade policies, treaties, government relations, tariffs and other trade restrictions. If the value of devices or parts is significantly reduced, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our sales of mobile devices to third parties, particularly those domiciled outside of the U.S., subject us to compliance risks relating to export control laws and regulations. Furthermore, certain businesses we acquire may violate, and from time to time have violated, such laws and regulations, which could subject us to liability.  Non-compliance with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For more information on the risks relating to our international operations, see “ – We face risks associated with our international operations. ” Sales of our products and services may decline if we are unable to develop and maintain distribution sources or attract and retain sales representatives and executives with key client relationships. We distribute many of our insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including mobile carriers, financial institutions, mortgage lenders and servicers, retailers, association groups, other third-party marketing organizations and, to a limited extent, our own captives and affiliated agents. Our relationships with these distributors are significant for our revenues and profits. There is intense competition for distribution outlets. Agents who distribute our products are typically not exclusively dedicated to us, but also market the products of our competitors. In some cases, such agents may be affiliated with other insurers who may choose to write the product that such agents are now selling on our behalf. Therefore, we face continued competition from competing products and services. We have our own sales representatives. We depend in large part on our sales representatives and segment executives to develop and maintain client relationships. Our inability to attract and retain effective sales representatives and executives with key client relationships could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face risks associated with joint ventures, franchises and investments in which we share ownership or management with third parties. From time to time, we have and may continue to enter into joint ventures and franchises and invest in entities in which we share ownership or management with third parties. In certain circumstances, we may not have complete control over governance, financial reporting, operations, legal and regulatory compliance or other matters relating to such joint ventures, franchises or entities. As a result, we may face certain operating, financial, legal and regulatory compliance and other risks relating to these joint ventures, franchises and entities, including risks related to the financial strength of joint venture partners, franchisees and other investors; the willingness of joint venture partners, franchisees and other investors to provide adequate funding for the joint venture, franchise or entity; differing goals, strategies, priorities or objectives between us and joint venture partners, franchisees or other investors; our inability to unilaterally implement actions, policies or procedures with respect to the joint venture, franchise or entity that we believe are favorable; legal and regulatory compliance risks relating to actions of the joint venture, franchise, entity, joint venture partners, franchisees or other investors; the risk that the actions of joint venture partners, franchisees and other investors could damage our brand image and reputation; and the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with joint venture partners, franchisees or other investors. As a result, joint ventures, franchises and 24 investments in which we share ownership or management subject us to risk and may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flows. Catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses, including as a result of climate change, could materially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition . Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising from catastrophes and non-catastrophes, particularly in our homeowners insurance, renters insurance and flood offerings. Catastrophes include hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, floods, severe winter weather, fires, epidemics and pandemics, terrorist attacks and accidents, and may result in reportable catastrophe losses, which are individual catastrophe events that generated losses in excess of $5.0 million, pre-tax and net of reinsurance. Non-catastrophe losses include losses from water damage, theft and vandalism, as well as general liability in commercial liability, renters and sharing economy insurance policies, among others. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses that materially reduce our profitability or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Natural catastrophe trends are changing due to climate change. Changes in the global climate may cause long-term increases in the frequency and severity of weather events, such as wildfires, hurricanes, floods and tornadoes, particularly in coastal areas. Climate change has the potential to impact nearly all sectors of the economy to varying degrees and may result in increased claims and higher catastrophe losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict how legal, regulatory, political and social responses to concerns around climate change may impact our business. While the frequency and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the frequency and severity of claims from future catastrophes. In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions may have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe losses, including by forcing expansion of certain insurance coverages for catastrophe claims, which may adversely impact our business. Catastrophe losses can vary widely and could significantly exceed our expectations. We use catastrophe modeling tools that help estimate our probable losses, but these projections are based on historical data and other assumptions that may differ materially from actual events, and their reliability and predictive value may decrease as a result of climate change. These modeling tools may not be able to anticipate emerging trends or changing marketplace conditions. See “ – Financial Risks – Actual results may differ materially from the analytical models we use to assist in our decision-making in key areas such as pricing, catastrophe risks, reserving and capital management. ” We purchase reinsurance for certain risks, but if the severity of an event were sufficiently high, our losses could exceed our reinsurance coverage limits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “ – Financial Risks – Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers. ” In addition, claims from catastrophe events could result in substantial volatility in our results of operations and financial condition for any particular fiscal quarter or year. Accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for catastrophe events before they occur. Once a catastrophe event occurs, the establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital. Because Global Housing’s lender-placed homeowners and lender-placed manufactured housing insurance products are designed to automatically provide property coverage for client portfolios, our exposure to certain catastrophe-prone locations, such as Florida, California, Texas, North Carolina, South Carolina and Puerto Rico, may increase. The withdrawal of other insurers from these or other states may lead to adverse selection and increased use of our products in these areas and may negatively affect our loss experience. Negative publicity relating to our business or industry may adversely affect our financial results. We communicate with and distribute our products and services ultimately to individual consumers. There may be a perception that some of these purchasers may be financially unsophisticated and therefore in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocacy groups and the media may focus their attention on our products and services, which may subject us to negative publicity. We may be negatively affected if another company in one of our industries or in a related industry engages in practices that subject our industry or businesses to negative publicity. Negative publicity may result from judicial inquiries, unfavorable outcomes in lawsuits, social media, regulatory or governmental actions with respect to our products or services and industry commercial practices. For example, we may be subject to regulatory queries to assess practices in the insurance sector that potentially disadvantage people of color or historically underrepresented groups in certain insurance lines of business. In addition, there is increased investor and regulatory focus on social responsibility matters, including diversity, equity and inclusion, and commitment to long-term sustainability. A failure or perceived failure in our 25 achievement of various social responsibility initiatives and goals we may from time to time announce, or an actual or perceived increase in related risks as a result of our or our industry’s business activities, may subject us to negative publicity. Negative publicity may cause increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation or enforcement action by civil and criminal authorities. Additionally, negative publicity may increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, constraining our ability to price our products appropriately for the risks we are assuming, requiring us to change the products and services we offer or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks General economic, financial market and political conditions and conditions in the markets in which we operate may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Limited availability of credit, deteriorations of the global mortgage and real estate markets, declines in consumer confidence and consumer spending, increases in prices or in the rate of inflation, periods of high unemployment, persistently low or rapidly increasing interest rates, disruptive geopolitical events and other events outside of our control, such as a major epidemic or a pandemic or political or civil unrest, could contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets, including the market for our stock, and may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These conditions could adversely affect all of our business segments. Specifically, during periods of economic downturn: • individuals and businesses may (i) choose not to purchase our insurance products, warranties and other products and services, (ii) terminate existing policies or contracts or permit them to lapse and (iii) choose to reduce the amount of coverage they purchase; • conditions in the markets in which we operate may deteriorate, impacting, among other things, consumer demand for the mobile devices, electronics, appliances, automobiles, housing and other products we insure, including the rate of introduction and success of new products, technologies and promotional programs that provide opportunities for growth; • clients are more likely to underperform expectations, experience financial distress and declare bankruptcy, which could have an adverse impact on the remittance of premiums from such clients and the collection of receivables from such clients for items such as unearned premiums and could otherwise expose us to credit risk; • claims on certain specialized insurance products tend to rise; • there is a higher loss ratio on credit card and installment loan insurance due to rising unemployment; • there is an increased risk of fraudulent insurance claims; and • there may be substantial decreases in loan availability and origination, which may reduce the demand for credit insurance that we write or debt cancellation or debt deferment products that we administer, and on the placement of hazard insurance under our Lender-placed Insurance programs. General inflationary pressures, including within the current environment, may affect repair and replacement costs on our real and personal property lines, increasing the costs of paying claims. In addition, inflationary pressures and shortages in the labor market have increased, and may continue to increase, our labor costs. Conversely, deflationary pressures may affect the pricing of our products and services. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto have disrupted and will likely continue to disrupt normal business activity, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to have widespread impact on global economies, the financial markets, business practices and human capital resources. As the virus (and its variants) continues to spread, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by: clients underperforming expectations or experiencing financial distress; customers experiencing difficulty paying premiums or cancelling coverages; an increase in the number of fraudulent insurance claims; an impairment in the value of our tangible or intangible assets; and fluctuations in the labor market. Furthermore, if the pandemic creates disruption in the credit or financial markets, or if it impacts our credit ratings, it could adversely affect our ability to access capital on favorable terms or at all. Our investment portfolio (and, specifically, the valuations and cash flows of investments we hold) may be adversely affected as a result of market developments from the COVID-19 pandemic and uncertainty regarding its outcome, including low interest rates, reduced liquidity, and a recession or continued slowdown in the U.S. or in global economic conditions. From an operational perspective, our employees, our clients and their customers, and vendors and other third parties with whom we work, have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to mitigate its spread.  The vast majority of our global workforce is working remotely, and we expect to continue remote and hybrid work 26 arrangements for a portion of our workforce after the pandemic has subsided, which increases cybersecurity risk and may adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting.  Remote working arrangements and a competitive labor market may result in increased employee turnover and other challenges in maintaining an engaged workforce. We face the risk that some of our facilities may close for periods of time or that significant portions of our workforce, including key personnel, may be unable to work effectively or at all because of illness and employee safety measures put in place.  The longer-term effects of COVID-19 on the workplace and workforce remain unclear. An extended period of such conditions may hinder our ability to attract, train and retain talent, impact employee morale, strain our business continuity plans and introduce additional operational risk, including cybersecurity and fraud risks, which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to COVID-19 vaccination or testing mandates, which may result in employee attrition, inefficiencies resulting from employee turnover, and costs associated with implementation and ongoing compliance.  The actions we take, including our return-to-office plans, may vary by geography, may prove to be premature or insufficient, may subject us to litigation and may have a material adverse effect on our business. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations or financial condition will depend on future developments which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including: the severity and duration of the pandemic; the actions taken by government authorities and other third parties to contain the virus (and its variants), including vaccination or testing mandates; the availability and efficacy of vaccines, other treatments and test kits; public acceptance of vaccines and testing; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions resume.  We cannot predict how legal and regulatory responses to concerns about the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health issues will impact our business, including the possibility of a mandated extension of business interruption or other insurance coverage beyond our policy language, or additional regulatory restrictions on our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends. For additional information on risks we face relating to epidemics and pandemics, see “ – General economic, financial market and political conditions and conditions in the markets in which we operate may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, ” “ – Business, Strategic and Operational Risks – Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a business continuity event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations ” and “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. ” Financial Risks Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, requiring us to establish additional reserves or to incur additional expense for settling unreserved liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital . We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate exposure for claims and claim adjustment expenses with respect to reported claims and incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) claims as of the end of each accounting period. Whether calculated under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), Statutory Accounting Principles or accounting principles applicable in foreign jurisdictions, reserves are estimates. Reserving is inherently a matter of judgment and our ultimate liabilities could exceed reserves for a variety of reasons, including changes in macroeconomic factors (such as unemployment and interest rates), case development and other factors. From time to time, we adjust our reserves, and may adjust our reserving methodology, as these factors, our claims experience and estimates of future trends in claims frequency and severity change. Reserve development, changes in our reserving methodology and paid losses exceeding corresponding reserves could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital. See “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates – Reserves” in this Report for additional detail on our reserves. We may be unable to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs, which could reduce our profitability. Our profitability could be reduced if we are unable to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs, including the frequency and severity of property and other claims. This ability could be affected by various factors, including inflation, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in industry practices, changes in legal, social or environmental conditions, new technologies, or domestic and global supply chain and labor issues. Political or economic conditions can affect the availability of programs on which our business may rely to accurately predict claims and other costs. In addition, modeling tools that support business decisions involve historical data and numerous assumptions that may differ materially from actual events. Climate change may make it more difficult to predict and model catastrophes, reducing our ability to accurately price our exposure to such events and mitigate risks. The inability to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs, including costs related to climate change, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “ – Financial Risks – Actual results may differ materially from the analytical models we use to assist in our decision-making in key areas such as pricing, catastrophe risks, reserving and capital management. ” 27 A decline in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . Ratings are important considerations in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best rates most of our domestic and significant international operating insurance subsidiaries. Moody’s rates four of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries and S&P rates five of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. These ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best, Moody’s and S&P, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. Rating agencies may change their methodology or requirements for determining ratings, or they may become more conservative in assigning ratings. Rating agencies could increase capital requirements for our subsidiaries or the enterprise, thereby reducing deployable capital at such subsidiary or at the holding company. Any reduction in these ratings could materially adversely affect our standing in the insurance industry and the demand for our products from intermediaries and consumers, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2021, our operations had a significant number of contracts that contain provisions that require the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum financial strength ratings, typically from A.M. Best, ranging from “A” or better to “A-” or better, depending on the contract. Our clients may terminate these contracts or fail to renew them if the subsidiaries’ ratings fall below these minimums. Termination of or failure to renew these agreements could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A credit rating agency downgrade of our corporate senior debt rating could adversely impact on our business. Currently, Assurant, Inc.’s senior debt is rated BBB by S&P and Baa3 by Moody’s, and both ratings carry a stable outlook. If our senior debt credit ratings were downgraded below investment grade, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and perceptions of our financial strength, could be adversely affected. A downgrade could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to access liquidity quickly, increase our borrowing costs, decrease demand for our debt securities, and increase the expense and difficulty of financing our operations or refinancing our existing indebtedness on similar or more favorable terms. For example, the interest rate payable on certain series of our senior notes is subject to increase if either of S&P or Moody’s downgrades the credit rating assigned to such series of senior notes to BB+ or below or to Ba1 or below, respectively. Additionally, we could be subject to more restrictive financial and operational covenants in any indebtedness we issue in the future, which could reduce our operational flexibility. There can be no assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information on our senior notes and the impact of rating changes. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations . While most of our costs and revenues are in U.S. Dollars, some are in other currencies. Because our financial results in certain countries are translated from local currency into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation, our results of operations have been and may continue to be affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. To a large extent, we do not currently hedge foreign currency risk. If the U.S. Dollar weakens against a local currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net revenue, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, our net assets, net revenue, operating expenses and net income will decrease if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against a local currency. These fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in losses that materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we may incur foreign exchange losses in connection with the designation of the U.S. Dollar as the functional currency of our international subsidiaries. For example, management has classified Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary in accordance with GAAP accounting requirements and, as a result, the functional currency of our Argentina subsidiaries was changed from the local currency to U.S. Dollars and their non-U.S. Dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities were subject to remeasurement resulting in losses. We could incur additional losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. For additional information on the change in functional currency for our Argentina subsidiaries and the effect thereof, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. An impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations and book value. As a result of acquisitions, we have added a considerable amount of goodwill and other intangible assets to our balance sheet. Goodwill represented 47% of our total equity as of December 31, 2021. We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Such circumstances include a significant adverse change in legal factors, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company-specific factors or the broader business climate. In addition, other intangible assets collectively represented 13% of our total equity as of December 31, 2021. Estimated useful lives of finite intangible assets are reassessed on an annual basis. Generally, other intangible assets with finite lives are 28 only tested for impairment if there are indicators of impairment identified, including a significant adverse change in the extent, manner or length of time in which the other intangible asset is being used or a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the other intangible asset. An impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, or significant reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and book value. For more information on our annual goodwill impairment testing, the goodwill of our segments and related reporting units and intangible asset impairment testing, see “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates – Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill” and Notes 2 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. While management has certified that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2021, because internal control over financial reporting is complex, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future. We rely on manual processes and procedures that subject us to increased risk of error and internal control failure compared to automated processes. Although we are in the process of implementing an integrated global financial system to, among other things, minimize our reliance on and use of manual processes, there can be no assurance that the implementation will be completed in a timely manner, or that it will achieve all of its intended goals. Any failure to implement required controls, or difficulties or errors encountered in their operation, could adversely affect our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could deteriorate investor confidence. If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm would be unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or opine that our financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with GAAP. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting may prevent us from reporting our financial information on a timely basis or cause us to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to litigation and adverse regulatory consequences, including fines and other sanctions. If any of the foregoing were to occur, investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements could erode, resulting in a decline in our stock price, impairing our ability to raise capital, negatively affecting our reputation and subjecting us to legal and regulatory risk. Unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may significantly and adversely affect our access to capital and our ability to pay our debts or expenses. The global capital and credit markets have experienced periods of uncertainty, volatility and disruption, changes to U.S. and foreign tax and trade policies, imposition of new or increased tariffs, other trade restrictions, other government actions, foreign currency fluctuations and other factors. Our ability to raise money during such periods could be severely or entirely restricted. Our ability to borrow or raise money is important if our operating cash flow is insufficient to pay our expenses, meet capital requirements, repay debt, pay dividends on our common stock or make investments. As a holding company, we have limited direct operations of our own. The principal sources of our liquidity are dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, cash flow from our investment portfolio, the Credit Facility (as defined below) and liquid assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets include a variety of short-and long-term instruments. If our access to the capital and credit markets is restricted, our cost of capital could increase, thus decreasing our profitability and reducing our financial flexibility, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar or more favorable terms. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially and adversely affected by periods of uncertainty, volatility and disruption in the capital or credit markets. Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk, including changes in interest rates, that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition . Investment returns are an important part of our profitability. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, including in the fixed maturity and equity securities markets, which could impair our profitability, financial condition and cash flows. Further, in pricing our products and services, we incorporate assumptions regarding returns on our investments. Market conditions may not allow us to invest in assets with sufficiently high returns to meet our pricing assumptions and profit targets over the long term. We are subject to interest rate risk in our investment portfolio. Changes in interest rates may materially adversely affect the performance of some of our investments, including by materially reducing the fair value of and investment income from fixed maturity securities and increasing unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2021, fixed maturity securities represented approximately 83% of our total investments and full year 2021 gross investment income from fixed maturity securities totaled $232.8 million. The fair market value of fixed maturity securities generally increases or decreases in 29 an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while investment income from fixed maturity securities increases or decreases directly with interest rates. In addition, actual investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at historically low levels, including the current period of low rates as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, may result in lower-than-expected investment income. Though we employ asset/liability management strategies to manage the adverse effects of interest rate changes, significant fluctuations in the level of interest rates may require us to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to pay claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk” in this Report. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit, liquidity and other risks that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio, primarily from our investments in corporate bonds, preferred stocks, leveraged loans, municipal bonds and commercial mortgages. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations could reduce our investment income or result in realized investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by downgrades in the corporate bonds included in our portfolio, increases in treasury rates or credit spreads and by other factors that may result in realized and unrealized investment losses and other-than-temporary impairments. The determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary impairment requires the judgment of management and there are inherent risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in facts, circumstances or critical assumptions could cause management to conclude that further impairments have occurred, which could lead to additional losses on investments. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio. For further details on net investment losses and other-than-temporary-impairments, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. The value of any particular fixed maturity security is subject to impairment based on the creditworthiness of its issuer. As of December 31, 2021, fixed maturity securities represented approximately 83% and below investment grade securities (rated “BB” or lower by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations) represented approximately 5% of our total investments. Below investment grade securities generally are expected to provide higher returns but present greater risk and can be less liquid than investment grade securities. A significant increase in defaults and impairments on our fixed maturity securities portfolio could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Credit Risk” in this Report for additional information on the composition of our fixed maturity securities portfolio. Equity securities represented approximately 5% of our total investments as of December 31, 2021. However, we have had higher percentages of equity securities in the past and may make more equity investments in the future. Investments in equity securities generally are expected to provide higher total returns but present greater risk to preservation of capital than our fixed maturity securities. All changes in the fair value of equity securities are reported in our statements of operations, which has increased the volatility of our financial results. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. Our investments in commercial mortgage loans on real estate (which represented approximately 3% of our total investments as of December 31, 2021) are relatively illiquid. If we require extremely large amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments at attractive prices and in a timely manner. The manner in which we allocate our resources across the portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest may increase credit, liquidity and other risks that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In accordance with applicable income tax guidance, we must determine whether our ability to realize the value of our deferred tax asset or to recognize certain tax liabilities related to uncertain tax positions is “more likely than not”. Under current income tax guidance, a deferred tax asset should be reduced by a valuation allowance, or a liability related to uncertain tax positions should be accrued, if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carryback or carry-forward periods. In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, management made certain judgments relating to recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carry-forwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions in making these judgments are updated periodically on the basis of current business conditions affecting us and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change due to 30 factors that include changes in our ability to realize sufficient taxable income of the same character in the same jurisdiction or in our ability to execute other tax planning strategies. Furthermore, any future changes in tax laws could impact the value of our deferred tax assets. Management will continue to assess and determine the need for, and the amount of, the valuation allowance in subsequent periods. Any change in the valuation allowance could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers . As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various operating segments. Although reinsurers are liable to us for claims properly ceded under our reinsurance arrangements, we remain liable to the insured as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Ceded reinsurance arrangements therefore do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. The inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing reinsurance market conditions, which have been, and in the future may continue to be, impacted by the occurrence of significant reinsured events, including catastrophes. In the future, we may not be able to obtain reinsurance coverage for some of our businesses at commercially reasonable rates or at all. In such a situation, we might be adversely affected by state and other regulations that prohibit us from excluding catastrophe exposures or from withdrawing from or increasing premium rates in catastrophe-prone areas.  In addition, we may not be able to renew our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Inability to obtain reinsurance at favorable rates or at all could cause us to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, take more risk, or incur higher costs. Any of these developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Through reinsurance, we have sold or exited businesses that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the reinsurers become insolvent . In the past, we have sold, and in the future we may sell, businesses through reinsurance ceded to third parties. We have exited certain businesses through reinsurance. We have a reinsurance recoverable balance with John Hancock Life Insurance Company (“John Hancock”) of $410.2 million as of December 31, 2021, related to the sale of our Long-Term Care division through reinsurance. The A.M. Best rating of John Hancock is currently A+. Certain assets backing reserves reinsured under this sale and other sales are held in trusts or separate accounts. However, if the reinsurers became insolvent, the assets in the trusts or separate accounts could prove insufficient to support the liabilities that would revert to us. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell John Alden Life Insurance Company (“JALIC”), one of our subsidiaries. Closing is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. JALIC’s assets and liabilities are recorded as held for sale on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2021, including reinsurance recoverables of $881.6 million, primarily reinsured through Employers Reassurance Corporation (“ERAC”).  A.M. Best withdrew its rating for ERAC in 2019. There are currently no assets or other collateral backing reserves relating to the reinsurance recoverable from ERAC. We face the risk of again becoming responsible for administering these businesses in the event of reinsurer insolvency. We do not currently have the administrative systems and capabilities to process these businesses. Accordingly, we would need to obtain those capabilities in the event of an insolvency of one or more of the reinsurers. We might be forced to obtain such capabilities on unfavorable terms with a resulting material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, other third parties to whom we have sold businesses in the past may in turn sell these businesses to other third parties, through reinsurance or otherwise, and we could face credit risks and risks related to the new administrative systems and capabilities of these third parties in administering these businesses. For more information on these arrangements, including the reinsurance recoverables and risk mitigation mechanisms used, see “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks – Credit Risk” in this Report. Due to the structure of our commission program, we are exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness and reporting systems of some of our agents, third-party administrators and clients. We are subject to the credit risk of some of the agents, third-party administrators and clients with which we contract in our businesses. In addition, some of our agents, third-party administrators and clients collect and report premiums or pay claims on our behalf. These parties’ failure to remit all premiums collected or to pay claims on our behalf on a timely and accurate basis could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 31 Our subsidiaries’ inability to pay us sufficient dividends could prevent us from meeting our obligations and paying future stockholder dividends . As a holding company whose principal assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we rely primarily on dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations, to repurchase shares or debt, to pay for certain expenses, to acquire new businesses, and to pay dividends to common stockholders. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and to make such other payments depends on their GAAP equity or statutory surplus, future earnings, cash position, rating agency requirements and regulatory restrictions, as applicable. Regulators could increase capital requirements for our subsidiaries, thereby reducing deployable capital at such subsidiary. Except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of our subsidiaries’ creditors, including policyholders, have priority over our claims with respect to our subsidiaries’ assets and earnings. If any of our subsidiaries should become insolvent, liquidate or otherwise reorganize, our creditors and stockholders will have no right to proceed against our subsidiaries’ assets or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of our subsidiaries under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws. The applicable insurance laws of the jurisdiction where each of our insurance subsidiaries is domiciled would govern any proceedings relating to that subsidiary and the insurance authority of that jurisdiction would act as a liquidator or rehabilitator for the subsidiary. The payment of dividends by any of our regulated domestic insurance company subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts (i.e., extraordinary dividends) must be approved by the subsidiary’s domiciliary jurisdiction department of insurance. Ordinary dividends, for which no regulatory approval is generally required, are limited to amounts determined by a formula, which varies by jurisdiction. The formula for the majority of the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled is based on the prior year’s statutory net income or 10% of the statutory surplus as of the end of the prior year. Some jurisdictions have an additional stipulation that dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus. If insurance regulators determine that payment of an ordinary dividend or any other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as payments under a tax sharing agreement or payments for employee or other services) would be adverse to policyholders or creditors, they may block such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. Future regulatory actions could further restrict our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends. For more information on the maximum amount of dividends our regulated U.S. domiciled insurance subsidiaries could pay us in 2021 under applicable laws and regulations, without prior regulatory approval, see “Item 5 – Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – Dividend Policy.” Any additional material restrictions on our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends could adversely affect our ability to pay any dividends on our common stock, service our debt and pay other expenses. Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock or repurchase shares may be limited. Our declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock in the future will be determined by the Board in its sole discretion and will depend on various factors, including: our subsidiaries’ payment of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial condition and capital requirements; general business conditions and growth prospects; any legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and any other factor the Board deems relevant. The payment of dividends on our common stock is subject to the preferential rights of preferred stock that the Board may create from time to time. The Credit Facility contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders if we are in default, or such dividend payments would cause us to be in default, of our obligations thereunder. In addition, if we defer the payment of interest on our Subordinated Notes (as defined hereafter), we generally may not make payments on our capital stock. Furthermore, the agreements governing any of our or our subsidiaries’ future indebtedness may limit our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common stock. In the event that any agreements governing any such indebtedness restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends in cash on our common stock, we may be unable to declare and pay dividends in cash on our common stock unless we can repay or refinance the amounts outstanding under such agreements. At any time when we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Notes, we generally may not repurchase any shares of our capital stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. Actual results may differ materially from the analytical models we use to assist in our decision-making in key areas such as pricing, catastrophe risks, reserving and capital management. We use various modeling techniques and data analytics throughout the organization to analyze and estimate exposures, loss trends, and other risks associated with our assets, liabilities, profitability and cash flows. This includes both proprietary and third-party modeled outputs and related analysis to assist us in decision-making related to pricing and rate filings, catastrophe modeling, loss reserving, asset management, corporate tax, financial reporting, and risk and capital management, among other things. The modeled outputs and related analyses are subject to uncertainties and the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including model design errors; rely on numerous assumptions and the use of historical internal and industry data; and may lead to unintentional bias. In addition, climate change may make it more difficult to predict and model catastrophes, 32 reducing our ability to accurately price our exposure to such events and mitigate risks. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our modeled results. If, based upon these models, we misprice our products, underestimate the frequency or severity of catastrophes, or fail to appropriately estimate the risks we are exposed to, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain effective, secure and reliable information technology systems and infrastructure and to modernize them to support current and new clients and grow in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Some of the Company’s information technology systems and software are legacy-type systems that are less efficient and require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain or upgrade to current standards, including business continuity procedures. We are undergoing a multi-year transformation of our information technology systems and infrastructure involving several enterprise-wide technology initiatives, including enhancing existing systems and developing new systems and products, to support our strategy and keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology and evolving industry and regulatory requirements. We are updating certain operations and financial systems, procedures and controls, retiring certain legacy systems, and migrating many of our systems and applications to the cloud. However, we currently rely on manual processes and procedures that subject us to increased risk of error and internal control failure compared to automated processes. We must integrate the systems of acquired businesses effectively so that technology gained through acquisitions meets the required level of security and performance capabilities to avoid additional risk to existing operations. Our ability to modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure requires us to execute large-scale, complex programs and projects, which rely on the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and effective planning and management processes. We may be unable to implement these programs and projects effectively, efficiently or in a timely manner, which could result in poor customer experience, cost overruns, additional expenses, reputational harm, legal and regulatory actions and other adverse consequences. If we are unable to maintain information technology systems, procedures (including technology continuity planning and recovery testing) and controls that function effectively without interruption and securely (including through a failure to replace or update redundant or obsolete hardware, applications or software systems), or to update or integrate our systems, we may not be able to successfully offer our products, grow our business and account for transactions in an appropriate and timely manner and our relationships with clients could be adversely affected. We are dependent on vendors and other third parties to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed and data capacity. For example, we utilize third-party cloud service providers in connection with certain aspects of our business and operations, and any disruption of, or interference with, our use of such cloud services could adversely impact our business and operations. We have from time to time experienced failures that result in the unavailability of information technology systems upon which our clients rely. Such failures could result in loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For risks relating to the security of our information technology systems and cyber attacks, see “ – We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. ” We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on the uninterrupted and secure operation of our information technology systems to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. This electronic information includes confidential and other sensitive information, including personal data, that we receive from our customers, vendors and other third parties. In the normal course of business, we share confidential and other sensitive information with our vendors and other third parties with whom we work. Our information technology systems and safety control systems and those of our vendors and other third parties are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of external threats, including cyber attacks, computer viruses, malware, ransomware and other types of data and systems related events, which are increasing in frequency. Our systems are subject to compromise from internal threats such as improper action by employees and third parties who may have otherwise legitimate access to our systems. Our call centers subject us to additional risk from internal threats due to access to personal information. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic required us to follow a work-from-home model to continue operations, which resulted in the bypassing of certain physical security controls for our employees and the employees of our vendors who have access to personal information. While additional technical controls have been put in place, they may not be sufficient to discover compromises that occur due to the loss of physical controls. Moreover, we face the ongoing challenge of managing access controls in a complex environment. The latency of a compromise is often measured in months but could be years, and we may not be able to detect a compromise in a timely manner. We could experience significant financial and reputational harm if our 33 information systems are breached, sensitive client or Company data are compromised, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time or maliciously made public, or if we fail to make adequate disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. We are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries, including state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers and “hacktivists” (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats or attacks via yet unknown vulnerabilities referred to as zero-day threats. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss or other damage to information technology systems. As the breadth and complexity of the technologies we use continue to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile devices, cloud services, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the Internet, the potential risk of security breaches and cyber attacks increases. Our data protection measures may not be effective to protect our network and systems from such threats. Should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user or otherwise, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. Certain measures that could increase the security of our systems take significant time and resources to deploy broadly and may not be effective against an attack. Additionally, our policies, procedures and technical safeguards may be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information and other cybersecurity incidents, assess the severity or impact of any such incidents or appropriately respond in a timely manner. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade effective protective measures and other safeguards or adequately respond to a breach could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we continue to invest in security and engage in best practices for software development, code vulnerabilities may still be introduced into production environments. Our information systems must be continually patched and upgraded to protect against vulnerabilities, including zero-day threats. As the volume of new software and hardware vulnerabilities continues to increase, as has the criticality of patches and other remedial measures. Accordingly, we are at risk that cyber attackers exploit these vulnerabilities before they have been addressed. Due to the large number and age of the systems and platforms that we operate and the increased frequency at which vendors issue security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we are at risk that we cannot deploy in a timely and effective manner. We are dependent on vendors and other third parties, such as cloud service providers, to keep their systems patched in order to protect our data. Any failure related to these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have vendors and other third parties who receive data from us in connection with the services we offer our customers. In addition, we have migrated certain data, and may increasingly migrate data, to the cloud hosted by third-party providers. We are at risk of a cyber attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third party’s data protection measures or access to our infrastructure through the third party. To the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyber attack that compromises their operations, our data and our customers’ data could be compromised or we may experience possible service interruption, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. For instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses in an acquired entity’s information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber attack. We may be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. We have from time to time experienced cybersecurity incidents, such as malware incursions, distributed denial of service attacks, hardware misconfigurations, zero-day exploits, employee misconduct and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices. Like many companies, we are subject to regular phishing email and social media engineering campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and financial and data losses. Although some of these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In the future, these types of incidents could result in confidential, restricted personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time, or maliciously made public, including client, employee or Company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Improper access to or disclosure of sensitive client or Company information could harm our reputation and subject us to significant liability under our contracts, as well as under existing or future laws, rules and regulations. In the event of a cyber attack, we might have to take our systems offline, which could interfere with services to our clients or damage our reputation. We may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond and recover any financial and data loss in a timely manner. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to mitigate the damage and to protect against future damage. In addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber attacks and other related data and system incidents. 34 The costs of complying with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and reputation. In providing services and solutions to our customers and operating our business, we process, store and transfer sensitive customer, end-consumer and Company data, including personal data, in and across multiple jurisdictions. As a result, we are or may become subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. For discussion of the various laws and regulations affecting our business, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation” in this Report. The scope and interpretation of these laws and additional laws that are or may be applicable to us are continuously evolving, often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time and may restrict the way services involving data are offered, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Complying with these and similar laws and regulations requires us to make significant changes to our operations, which rely on the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and effective planning and management processes. We may be unable to implement required operational changes effectively, efficiently or in a timely manner, which could result in cost overruns, additional expenses, reputational harm, legal and regulatory actions and other adverse consequences. Unauthorized disclosure or transfer of personal or otherwise sensitive data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud, misappropriation or other means, by us, our vendors or other parties with whom we do business could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, criminal prosecution and other adverse consequences in one or more jurisdictions. Such events could result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation and cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business, and violations or alleged violations of such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the U.S. and its various states and territories, the E.U. and its member states, the U.K. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. We are subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, trade sanctions, export control regulations and restrictions and anti-money laundering laws. We are subject to other laws and regulations on matters as diverse as antitrust, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, accounting standards implemented by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and accounting-related rules and interpretations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, environmental protection, wage-and-hour standards, and employment and labor relations. In addition, new environmental, social and governance laws and regulations may result in expanded mandatory and voluntary reporting, diligence and disclosure. Furthermore, our domestic and international insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory oversight, including: restrictions and requirements related to licensing; capital, surplus and dividends; underwriting limitations; the ability to enter, exit and continue to operate in markets; statutory accounting and other disclosure requirements; the ability to provide, terminate or cancel certain coverages; premium rates, including regulatory ability to disapprove or reduce the premium rates companies may charge; trade and claims practices; product forms, including regulatory ability to disapprove new product filings; content of disclosures to consumers; type, amount and valuation of investments; assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and companies’ ability to recover assessments through premium increases; and market conduct and sales practices. The U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex and may change rapidly, and our efforts to comply and keep up with them require significant resources and increase the costs and risks of doing business in these jurisdictions. The regulations we are subject to have become more stringent over time, may decrease the need for our services, impose significant operational limits on our business and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions. Further, the laws and regulations affecting our business are subject to change as a result of, among other things, new interpretations and judicial decisions, and any such changes may increase the regulatory requirements imposed on us, impact the way we are able to do business and significantly harm our business and results of operations. While we attempt to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we or our employees, consultants, contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to investigations, criminal penalties, civil remedies or other adverse consequences, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business, redress to clients, exposure to negative publicity or reputational damage and harm to client, employee and other relationships. Moreover, our failure to comply with laws or regulations in one jurisdiction may result in increased regulatory scrutiny by other regulatory agencies in that jurisdiction or regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. The cost of compliance and the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  For additional discussion of the various laws and regulations affecting our business, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation” in this Report. 35 Changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Federal, state or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, are subject to significant change and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, in 2017, the TCJA, which significantly amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, was enacted. Compliance with the TCJA may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the Company, the use of estimates in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. The overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain due to the ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the TCJA, the impact of future guidance, interpretations or rules issued by government agencies in applying the TCJA and potential court decisions interpreting the legislation. Future changes in tax laws, including changes in the application or interpretation of the TCJA, other new proposals, including the Made in America Tax Plan, the American Jobs Plan and the Build Back Better Act, or increases to the corporate tax rate, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s efforts around Global Pillars I and II dealing with possible new digital taxes and global minimum taxes, if enacted, could increase the Company’s overall tax burden, adversely impacting the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions . From time to time, we may be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including: • industry-wide investigations regarding business practices, including the use and marketing of certain types of insurance policies or certificates of insurance, and compliance with guidance issued by regulators; • actions by regulatory authorities that may restrict our ability to increase or maintain our premium rates, require us to reduce premium rates, require us to allow customers to defer premium payments on certain of our products, make offering our products more expensive or unattractive to our clients, impose fines or penalties, and result in other expenses; • market conduct examinations, for which we are required to pay the expenses of the regulator as well as our own expenses, and which may result in fines, penalties, and other adverse consequences; • disputes regarding our Lender-placed Insurance products, including those relating to rates, agent compensation, consumer disclosure, continuous coverage requirements, loan tracking services and other services that we provide to mortgage servicers; • disputes over coverage or claims adjudication; • disputes over our treatment of claims, in which states or insureds may allege that we failed to make required payments or meet prescribed deadlines for adjudicating claims; • disputes regarding regulatory compliance, sales practices, disclosures, premium refunds, licensing, underwriting and compensation arrangements; • disputes over liability claims under comprehensive general liability policies involving property damage or personal injury at insured properties or relating to insured vehicles; • disputes alleging bundling of credit insurance and warranty products with other products provided by financial institutions; • disputes with tax and insurance authorities regarding our tax liabilities; • disputes relating to customers’ claims that they were not aware of the full cost or existence of the insurance or limitations on insurance coverage; and • employment litigation claims brought by current or former employees. Further, actions by certain regulators may cause additional changes to the structure of the Lender-placed Insurance industry, including the arrangements under which we track coverage on mortgaged properties. These changes could materially adversely affect the results of operations of Global Housing and the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. For additional information, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation” in this Report. We are involved in a variety of litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our current and past business operations and may, from time to time, become involved in other such actions. We continue to defend ourselves vigorously in these proceedings. We participate in settlements on terms that we consider reasonable; however, the results of any pending or future litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently unpredictable and involve significant uncertainty. Unfavorable outcomes in litigation 36 or regulatory proceedings or significant problems in our relationships with regulators could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, reputation, ratings and ability to continue to do business. They could expose us to further investigations or litigation. In addition, certain of our clients in the mortgage, credit card and banking industries are the subject of various regulatory investigations and litigation matters regarding mortgage lending practices, credit insurance, debt-deferment and debt cancellation products, and the sale of ancillary products, which could indirectly negatively affect our businesses. For additional information, see “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Our business is subject to risks related to reductions in the insurance premium rates we charge. The premiums we charge are subject to review by regulators. If they consider our loss ratios to be too low, they could require us to reduce our rates. Significant rate reductions could materially reduce our profitability. We file rates with the state departments of insurance in the ordinary course of business. In addition to this routine correspondence, from time to time we engage in discussions and proceedings with certain state regulators regarding our Lender-placed Insurance business. The results of such reviews may vary. As previously disclosed, we have reached agreements with state insurance regulators in certain states, including New York, Florida, California, Indiana, Texas and Minnesota, regarding our Lender-placed Insurance business in those states. In addition, we completed a regulatory settlement agreement (the “RSA”) to resolve a targeted multistate market conduct examination sponsored by the NAIC and focused on Lender-placed Insurance, which includes a number of requirements and restrictions that are applicable in all participating states and U.S. territories. Among other things, the terms of the RSA require more frequent rate filings for Lender-placed Insurance. This could result in downward pressure on premium rates for these products. If such filings result in significant decreases in premium rates for our Lender-placed Insurance products, our cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in insurance regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth . Legislation or other regulatory reform related to the insurance industry that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we are able to do business may significantly harm our business or results of operations. Various state and federal regulatory authorities have taken actions with respect to our Lender-placed Insurance business, including the multistate market conduct examination and related RSA. If we were unable for any reason to comply with any new or revised requirements, including the RSA, it could result in substantial costs to us and may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws or new judicial decisions affecting the insurance industry could adversely affect our business. Insurance industry-related legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm our subsidiaries and us include: • imposed reductions in premium rates, limitations on the ability to raise premiums on existing policies, or new minimum loss ratios; • increases in minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements; • enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or to otherwise ensure the stability of institutions; • new licensing requirements; • restrictions on the ability to offer certain types of insurance products, service contracts or other protection products; • prohibitions or limitations on provider financial incentives and provider risk-sharing arrangements; • more stringent standards of review for claims denials or coverage determinations; • increased regulation relating to Lender-placed Insurance; and • new or enhanced regulatory requirements that require insurers to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy contracts. In addition, regulators in certain states have hired third-party auditors to audit the unclaimed property records of insurance companies operating in those states. Among other companies, we are currently subject to these audits in a number of states and have been responding to information requests from these auditors. General Risk Factors Our common stock may be subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. Our common stock price and trading volume could materially fluctuate or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: variations in our quarterly operating results; catastrophe losses; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; changes in our insurance subsidiaries’ financial strength ratings; changes in our corporate debt ratings; 37 changes to our registered securities; limitations on premium levels or the ability to maintain or raise premiums on existing policies; regulatory developments; and negative publicity relating to us or our competitors. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations, including those as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, may materially and adversely affect the trading price or volume of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Employee misconduct could harm us by subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm. Our ability to attract, recruit, hire, motivate, develop and retain employees and clients depends upon our corporate culture. Our employees are the cornerstone of our culture and acts of misconduct by any employee, and particularly by senior management, could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation. Our employees could engage or be accused of engaging in misconduct that subjects us to litigation, regulatory sanctions, financial costs and serious harm to our reputation or financial position. Employee misconduct could prompt regulators to allege or determine, on the basis of such misconduct, that we have not established an adequate program to inform employees of applicable rules or to detect and deter violations of such rules. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent misconduct may not be effective. Misconduct by employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, reputation and business. Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider to be in their best interests . Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. For example, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our directors, which could delay, defer or prevent a change in control. Such provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. Additionally, applicable state and foreign insurance laws may require prior approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer. State statutes generally provide, and certain foreign statutes provide, that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist when any person directly or indirectly owns, controls, has voting power over, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the domestic insurer’s voting securities. The application process can be extensive, thereby discouraging the acquisition of a control position. Our certificate of incorporation or by-laws contain provisions that permit the Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock, prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on the Board, prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders and from taking action by written consent and impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings. 38

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Report. It contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results might differ materially from those projected in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly under the headings “Item 1A – Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” General Sale of Global Preneed In August 2021, we completed the sale of the disposed Global Preneed business to CUNA for an aggregate purchase price at closing of $1.34 billion in cash. For additional information, refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Prior to the sale, we determined that the disposed Global Preneed business met the criteria to be classified as held for sale and that the sale represented a strategic shift that had a major impact on our operations and financial results. Accordingly, the results of operations of the disposed Global Preneed business are presented as net income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations and segregated in the consolidated statement of cash flows for all periods presented, and the assets and liabilities for the disposed Global Preneed business have been classified as held for sale and segregated as of December 31, 2020 in the consolidated balance sheets. Transactions between the disposed Global Preneed business and businesses in our continuing operations were not eliminated to appropriately reflect the continuing operations and the assets, liabilities and results of the disposed Global Preneed business. Refer to “–Results of Operations – Discontinued Operations” below and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Reportable Segments We report our results through three segments: Global Lifestyle, Global Housing and Corporate and Other. Corporate and Other includes activities of the holding company, financing and interest expenses, net realized gains (losses) on investments and fair value changes to equity securities, interest income earned from short-term investments held, income (expenses) primarily related to our frozen benefit plans, amounts related to businesses previously disposed of through reinsurance and the run-off of the Assurant Health business. Corporate and Other also includes goodwill impairments, the foreign currency gains (losses) from remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and other expenses related to merger and acquisition activities, as well as other highly variable or unusual items other than reportable catastrophes (reportable catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and client profit sharing adjustments, and including reinstatement and other premiums). 42 The following discussion covers the year ended December 31, 2021 (“Twelve Months 2021”), the year ended December 31, 2020 (“Twelve Months 2020”) and the year ended December 31, 2019 (“Twelve Months 2019”). Please see the discussion that follows, for each of these segments, for a more detailed comparative analysis. Executive Summary Overview We have undertaken several acquisitions and dispositions in the current and prior years, which are reflected in our results. In August 2021, we completed the sale of the disposed Global Preneed business to CUNA for an aggregate purchase price at closing of $1.34 billion in cash. For additional information, refer to Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. In June 2021, we issued $350.0 million of 2.65% senior notes due January 2032 and used the proceeds, along with cash on hand, to redeem all of the $350.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 4.00% senior notes due March 2023 and paid accrued interest, related premiums, fees and expenses in July 2021. See “ – Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further details. Summary of Financial Results Consolidated net income from continuing operations increased $93.1 million, or 18%, to $613.5 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $520.4 million for Twelve Months 2020. The increase was primarily driven by higher net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities, including $67.5 million of fair value changes in unrealized equity positions that went public during Twelve Months 2021, compared to net losses in Twelve Months 2020, as well as growth in Global Lifestyle. This was partially offset by the absence of an $84.4 million tax benefit that was recorded in Twelve Months 2020 related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the 2020 Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). Global Lifestyle segment net income increased $47.5 million, or 11%, to $484.7 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $437.2 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily driven by significant growth in Global Automotive, continued expansion in mobile within Connected Living and greater contributions from Global Financial Services and Other. Global Automotive results included underlying growth from prior period sales driven by expanded and new client relationships globally, favorable loss experience in select ancillary products and $8.2 million of one-time benefits in the first half of Twelve Months 2021 that are not expected to repeat. Mobile growth was primarily driven by strong trade-in volumes, including HYLA, and improved performance in Asia Pacific. Results were partially offset by investments in our in-store service and repair capabilities. Global Lifestyle net earned premiums, fees and other income increased $410.1 million, or 6%, to $7.75 billion for the Twelve Months 2021 compared with $7.34 billion for Twelve Months 2020, primarily driven by Global Automotive from strong sales across the U.S., as well as growth in Connected Living from extended service contracts. In mobile, higher trade-in volumes and subscriber growth were offset by declines from runoff programs and the $176 million reduction from the previously disclosed program contract change. Global Housing segment net income increased $10.8 million, or 5%, to $244.6 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $233.8 million for Twelve Months 2020. Segment net income for Twelve Months 2021 included $113.9 million of reportable catastrophes compared to $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes for Twelve Months 2020. Excluding reportable catastrophes, segment net income decreased $12.5 million, primarily due to higher non-catastrophe loss experience from an anticipated increase to more normalized levels, as well as a $12.3 million year-over-year increase within small commercial that was primarily related to reserve strengthening for run-off claims. This was partially offset by higher premium rates and average insured values in Lender-placed Insurance. Global Housing net earned premiums, fees and other income increased $19.3 million, or 1%, to $2.00 billion for Twelve Months 2021 compared with $1.98 billion for Twelve Months 2020, primarily driven by growth in Multifamily Housing across affinity and property management company channels as well as Lender-placed Insurance. The increase was partially offset by declines in Specialty and Other products from client runoff. Corporate and Other segment net loss decreased $34.8 million, or 23%, to $115.8 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $150.6 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily due to the higher net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities, compared to net losses in Twelve Months 2020, partially offset by the absence of an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act. 43 Critical Factors Affecting Results Our results depend on, among other things, the appropriateness of our product pricing, underwriting, the accuracy of our reserving methodology for future policyholder benefits and claims, the frequency and severity of reportable and non-reportable catastrophes, returns on and values of invested assets, our investment income and our ability to manage our expenses and achieve expense savings. Our results also depend on our ability to profitably grow all of our businesses, including our Connected Living, Multifamily Housing and Global Automotive businesses, and maintain our position in our Lender-placed Insurance business. Factors affecting these items, including conditions in financial markets, the global economy and the markets in which we operate, fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation, including the current period of inflationary pressures, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For more information on these and other factors that could affect our results, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” Our results may also be impacted by our ability to continue to grow in the markets in which we operate, including in our Connected Living, Multifamily Housing and Global Automotive businesses, which will be impacted by our ability to provide a superior digital-first customer experience, including from our investments in technology and digital initiatives, and capitalize on the smart home opportunity. Our mobile business is subject to volatility in mobile device trade-in volumes based on the actual and anticipated timing of the release of new devices and carrier promotional programs, as well as to changes in consumer preferences. Our Lender-placed Insurance revenues will be impacted by changes in the housing market. In addition, across many of our businesses, we must respond to the threat of disruption and the competition for talent. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Business, Strategic and Operational Risks – Significant competitive pressures, changes in customer preferences and disruption could adversely affect our results of operations ” and “ – The success of our business depends on the execution of our strategy, including through the continuing service of key executives, senior leaders, highly-skilled personnel and a high-performing workforce.” For Twelve Months 2021, net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $630.5 million; net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was $302.8 million; and net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1.09 billion. We had $2.04 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2021. Please see “ – Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further details. Revenues We generate revenues primarily from the sale of our insurance policies, service contracts and related products and services and from income earned on our investments. Sales of insurance policies are recognized in revenue as earned premiums while sales of administrative services are recognized as fee income. Our premium and fee income is supplemented by income earned from our investment portfolio. We recognize revenue from interest payments, dividends, change in market value of equity securities and sales of investments. Currently, our investment portfolio is primarily invested in fixed maturity securities. Both investment income and changes in market value on these investments can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rate volatility can increase or reduce unrealized gains or losses in our investment portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions, inflation and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed maturity and short-term investments. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. We also have investments that are subject to pre-payment risk, such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. Interest rate fluctuations may cause actual net investment income and/or timing of cash flows from such investments to differ from estimates made at the time of investment. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage obligations and bonds are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Therefore, in these circumstances we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest-earning investments. Expenses Our expenses are primarily policyholder benefits, underwriting, general and administrative expenses and interest expense. Policyholder benefits are affected by our claims management programs, reinsurance coverage, contractual terms and conditions, regulatory requirements, economic conditions, and numerous other factors. Benefits paid or reserves required for future benefits could substantially exceed our expectations, causing a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 44 Underwriting, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, licenses, fees, amortization of deferred costs, general operating expenses and income taxes. We continue to undertake various expense savings initiatives while also making investments in talent, capabilities and technology, among other things, which will impact our expenses. We also incur interest expense related to our debt. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Certain items in our Consolidated Financial Statements are based on estimates and judgment. Differences between actual results and these estimates and judgments could in some cases have material impacts on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following critical accounting policies require significant estimates and judgment: • Reserves, Net of Reinsurance • Valuation of Investments, including Evaluation of Credit Losses • Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill Reserves, Net of Reinsurance Reserves are established using generally accepted actuarial methods and reflect judgments about expected future claim payments. Factors used in their calculation include experience derived from historical claim payments and actuarial assumptions. Calculations incorporate assumptions about the incidence of incurred claims, the extent to which all claims have been reported, reporting lags, expenses, inflation rates, future investment earnings, internal claims processing costs and other relevant factors. While the methods of making such estimates and establishing the related liabilities are periodically reviewed and updated, the estimation of reserves includes an element of uncertainty given that management is using historical information and methods to project future events and reserve outcomes. The recorded reserves represent our best estimate at a point in time of the ultimate costs of settlement and administration of a claim or group of claims, based upon actuarial assumptions and projections using facts and circumstances known at the time of calculation. The adequacy of reserves may be impacted by future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both external and internal events, including: changes in the economic cycle, inflation, changes in repair costs, natural or human-made catastrophes, judicial trends, legislative changes and claims handling procedures. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable and not all future events can be anticipated when reserves are established. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently complex process involving significant judgment and estimates, there can be no certainty that future settlement amounts for claims incurred through the financial reporting date will not vary from reported claims reserves. Future loss development could require reserves to be increased or decreased, which could have a material effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases or decreases are made. However, based on information currently available, we believe our reserve estimates are adequate. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, requiring us to establish additional reserves or to incur additional expense for settling unreserved liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital ” and “ – Financial Risks – Actual results may differ materially from the analytical models we use to assist in our decision-making in key areas such as pricing, catastrophe risks, reserving and capital management” for more detail on this risk. Reinsurance Recoverables We utilize reinsurance for loss protection and capital management, business dispositions and client risk and profit sharing. Reinsurance premiums paid are amortized as reductions to premium over the terms of the underlying reinsured policies. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. Reinsurance recoverables include amounts we are owed by reinsurers for claims paid as well as those included in reserve estimates that are subject to the reinsurance. We use a probability of default and loss given default methodology in estimating an expected credit loss allowance, whereby the credit ratings of reinsurers are used in determining the probability of default. The allowance is established for reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid future policy benefits and claims and benefits. Prior to applying default factors, the net exposure to credit risk is reduced for any collateral for which the right of offset exists, such as funds withheld, assets held in 45 trust and letters of credit, which are part of the reinsurance arrangements, with adjustments to include consideration of credit exposure on the collateral. Our methodology incorporates historical default factors for each reinsurer based on their credit rating using comparably rated bonds as published by a major ratings service. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing and other relevant factors. In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in both the assumption and cession of reinsurance with non-affiliated companies. The following table provides details of the reinsurance recoverables balance as of December 31, 2021 and 2020: For additional information regarding our reserves and reinsurance recoverables, see Notes 2, 5, 17 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Short Duration Contracts Claims and benefits payable reserves for short duration contracts include (1) case reserves for known claims which are unpaid as of the balance sheet date; (2) IBNR reserves for claims where the insured event has occurred but has not been reported to us as of the balance sheet date; and (3) loss adjustment expense reserves for the expected handling costs of settling the claims. Periodically, we review emerging experience and make adjustments to our reserves and assumptions where necessary. Ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses are estimated utilizing generally accepted actuarial loss reserving methods. Both paid claims development as well as case incurred development are typically analyzed at the product or product grouping level, considering product size and data credibility. The reserving methods widely employed by us include the Chain Ladder, Munich Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods. For Global Housing, reportable catastrophes are analyzed and reserved for separately using a frequency and severity approach. The methods all involve aggregating paid and case-incurred loss data by accident quarter (or accident year) and accident age for each product grouping. As the data ages, development factors are calculated that measure emerging claim development patterns between reporting periods. By selecting loss development factors indicative of remaining development, known losses are projected to an ultimate incurred basis for each accident period. The underlying premise of the Chain Ladder method is that future claims development is best estimated using past claims development, whereas the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method employs a combination of past claims development and prior estimates of ultimate losses based on an expected loss ratio. The Munich Chain Ladder method incorporates the correlations between paid and incurred development in projecting future development factors, and is typically more applicable to products experiencing variability in incurred to paid ratios. Each of these methods applied to the data groupings produces an estimate of the loss reserves for the product grouping. The best estimate is generally selected from a blend of the different methods. The IBNR associated with the best estimate is then allocated to accident year based on a weighting of the underlying actuarial methods. The determination of the best estimate is based on many factors, including: • the nature and extent of the underlying assumptions; • the quality and applicability of historical data - whether internal or industry data; • current and expected future economic and market conditions; • regulatory, legislative, and judicial considerations; • the extent of data segmentation - data should be homogeneous yet credible enough for loss development methods to apply; • trends in loss frequency and severity for various causes of loss; • consideration of the distribution of loss reserves, management’s selection of the best estimate that may exceed an estimate based on median values, suggesting that favorable development may be more likely than unfavorable development; and • hindsight testing of prior loss estimates - the loss estimates on some product lines will vary from actual loss experience more than others. 46 When employing the reserving methods, consideration is given to contractual requirements, historical utilization trends and payment patterns, coverage changes, seasonality, product mix, the legislative and regulatory environment, economic factors, natural catastrophes and other relevant factors. We consistently apply reserving principles and methodologies from year to year, while also giving due consideration to the potential variability of these factors. While management has used judgment in establishing its best estimate of required reserves, different assumptions and variables could lead to significantly different reserve estimates. Two key measures of loss activity are loss frequency, which is a measure of the number of claims per unit of insured exposure, and loss severity, which is a measure of the average size of claims. Factors affecting loss frequency include the effectiveness of loss controls, changes in economic activity and weather patterns. Factors affecting loss severity include changes in policy limits, retentions, rate of inflation and judicial interpretations. If the actual level of loss frequency and severity are higher or lower than expected, the ultimate reserves required will be different than management’s estimate. The effect of higher and lower levels of loss frequency and severity on our ultimate costs for claims occurring in 2021 would be as follows: (1) Represents the sum of the case reserves and incurred but not reported reserves as of December 31, 2021 for Global Lifestyle and Global Housing. Long Duration Contracts, including Disposed and Runoff Long Duration Lines Reserves for future policy benefits represent the present value of future benefits to policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums. Reserve assumptions reflect best estimates for expected investment yield, inflation, mortality, morbidity, expenses and withdrawal rates. These assumptions are based on our experience to the extent it is credible, modified where appropriate to reflect current trends, industry experience and provisions for possible unfavorable deviation. We also record an unearned revenue reserve which represents premiums received which have not yet been recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. Risks related to the reserves recorded for certain discontinued individual life, annuity and long-term care insurance policies have been fully ceded via reinsurance. While we have not been released from our contractual obligation to the policyholders, changes in and deviations from economic, mortality, morbidity, and withdrawal assumptions used in the calculation of these reserves will not directly affect our results of operations unless there is a default by the assuming reinsurer. Valuation of Investments In determining the estimated fair value of our investments, fair values are primarily based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical investments in active markets that are readily and regularly obtainable. When such unadjusted quoted prices are not available, estimated fair values are based on quoted prices for identical or similar investments in markets that are not active, or other observable inputs. If these observable inputs are not available, or observable inputs are not determinable, unobservable inputs or adjustments to observable inputs requiring management judgment are used to determine the estimated fair value of investments. The methodologies, assumptions and inputs utilized are described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Our ability to sell investments and the price ultimately realized for investments depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market. See also Notes 2 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report, “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk, including changes in interest rates, that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition ” and “ – Investments” contained in this Item 7. 47 Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill Our goodwill related to acquisitions of businesses was $2.57 billion and $2.59 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Such indicators include: a significant adverse change in legal factors, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company-specific factors or the broader business climate. The evaluation of such factors requires considerable management judgment. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is either at the operating segment or one level below, if that component is a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews such information. Components within an operating segment can be aggregated into one reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics. A goodwill impairment loss is measured as the excess of the carrying value, including goodwill, of the reporting unit over its fair value. An impairment loss is limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Our Global Lifestyle operating segment is disaggregated into the following three reporting units: Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other. Our reporting unit for goodwill testing was at the same level as the operating segment for Global Housing. The following table illustrates the amount of goodwill carried by operating segment as of the dates indicated: (1) As of December 31, 2021, $698.7 million, $1,420.5 million and $72.9 million of goodwill was assigned to the Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other reporting unit, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, $715.2 million, $1,421.3 million, and $73.3 million of goodwill was assigned to the Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other reporting unit, respectively. Quantitative Impairment Testing In the fourth quarter of 2021, we performed a quantitative assessment for the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing reporting units given the uncertainty in macro-economic conditions and the overall industry performance due to prolonged COVID-19 impacts. Based on this quantitative assessment, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that the reporting units’ fair values were more than their carrying amounts and that there was no impairment for the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing reporting units as of October 1, 2021. The determination of fair value of the reporting units requires many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include earnings and required capital projections discussed above, discount rates, terminal growth rates, operating income and dividend forecasts for each reporting unit and the weighting assigned to the results of each of the three valuation methods described above. Changes in certain assumptions could have a significant impact on the goodwill impairment assessment. Should the operating results of these reporting units decline substantially compared to projected results, or should further interest rate declines increase the net unrealized investment portfolio gain position, we could determine that we need to perform an updated impairment test due to the potential impairment indicators, which may require the recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in any of the reporting units. For the fourth quarter of 2021 quantitative assessment, had the net book value for any of the reporting units exceeded its estimated fair value, the Company would have recognized a goodwill impairment loss for the difference up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further detail. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 48 Results of Operations Assurant Consolidated Overview The table below presents information regarding our consolidated results of operations: Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net Income from Continuing Operations Consolidated net income from continuing operations increased $93.1 million, or 18%, to $613.5 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $520.4 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily due to higher net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities compared to net losses in the prior period, including $67.5 million of after-tax unrealized gains from four equity positions that went public during Twelve Months 2021, the absence of $25.5 million of after-tax net unrealized losses on collateralized loan obligations in Twelve Months 2020 and $19.2 million of after-tax unrealized gains from equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative. The increase was also due to favorable earnings contributions from Global Lifestyle, mainly due to continued organic growth and favorable loss experience in Global Automotive. These increases were partially offset by the absence of an $84.4 million tax benefit that was recorded in Twelve Months 2020 related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income from Continuing Operations Consolidated net income from continuing operations increased $214.0 million, or 70%, to $520.4 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $306.4 million for Twelve Months 2019. Net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes, due to several storms in 2020 including Hurricane Laura, compared to $41.0 million in Twelve Months 49 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, net income increased $310.2 million, or 89%, due to $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from decreases in the estimated fair value of Iké Grupo, Iké Asistencia and certain of their affiliates (collectively, “Iké”), an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act and an improvement in our results from Global Housing and Global Lifestyle. The increase was also due to the absence of $29.6 million of after-tax debt related charges from Twelve Months 2019. These increases were partially offset by a $55.8 million after-tax decrease in net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities mostly due to a decrease in net unrealized gains on equity securities and higher unrealized losses from the decrease in fair value of collateralized loan obligations, as well as $21.2 million of after-tax direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. 50 Global Lifestyle Overview The table below presents information regarding the Global Lifestyle segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net Income Segment net income increased $47.5 million, or 11%, to $484.7 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $437.2 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily due to Global Automotive from underlying growth from prior period sales driven by expanded and new client relationships globally, favorable loss experience in select ancillary products and $8.2 million of one-time benefits in Twelve Months 2021 that are not expected to repeat. Connected Living and Global Financial Services and Other also contributed to the increase. Connected Living growth was led by mobile, mainly from higher mobile trade-in volumes, including Hyla, better performance in Asia Pacific and additional domestic mobile subscribers across carrier and cable operator clients. This increase was partially offset by investments to build out service and repair capabilities and a $6.7 million after-tax benefit for an extended service contract client recoverable in Twelve Months 2020. Growth in Global Financial Services and Other was mainly due to claims and sales recoveries as Twelve Months 2020 included unfavorable impacts related to COVID-19. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $417.1 million, or 6%, to $7.95 billion for Twelve Months 2021 from $7.53 billion for Twelve Months 2020. Net earned premiums increased $278.1 million, or 4%, primarily driven by continued growth from strong U.S. sales in our Global Automotive business across all distribution channels. The increase in net earned premiums was partially offset by modest declines in Connected Living, as the run-off of certain global mobile programs was offset by growth in extended service contract programs and domestic mobile subscribers within our cable operator distribution channel. Fees and other income increased $132.0 million, or 15%, driven by Connected Living from higher mobile repair and logistics volumes 51 mainly from HYLA contributions and mobile carrier promotions, partially offset by the $176 million reduction from the previously disclosed program contract change. Net investment income increased $7.0 million, or 4%, primarily due to higher income from real estate related investments. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $366.2 million, or 5%, to $7.33 billion for Twelve Months 2021 from $6.97 billion for Twelve Months 2020. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired increased $236.3 million, or 7%, primarily due to an increase in amortization of deferred acquisition costs (“DAC”) due to growth in our Global Automotive business and extended service contract programs within our Connected Living business, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of VOBA related to the acquisition of TWG Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries. Underwriting, general and administrative expenses increased $209.4 million, or 10%, primarily due to growth across the businesses, including higher mobile repair and logistics volumes, with contributions from HYLA, and investments to build out service and repair capabilities, partially offset by the impact of the previously disclosed program contract change. The increase in total benefits, losses and expenses was partially offset by a $79.5 million, or 6%, decrease in policyholder benefits, primarily due to the run-off of certain global mobile programs in our Connected Living business and lower loss experience in select ancillary products in Global Automotive, partially offset by growth across our Global Automotive and Connected Living businesses. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income Segment net income increased $27.9 million, or 7%, to $437.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $409.3 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by our Connected Living business, mainly due to continued mobile subscriber growth in North America and Asia Pacific and improved extended service contract loss experience, as well as higher income and organic growth from our Global Automotive business. These increases were partially offset by lower investment income and unfavorable foreign exchange. Additionally, our Global Financial Services and Other business had lower income, mainly due to lower volumes and higher loss experience, primarily resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and anticipated declines from domestic business in run-off. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $186.9 million, or 3%, to $7.53 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $7.35 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Net earned premiums increased $368.5 million, or 6%, primarily driven by continued growth from prior period production in our Global Automotive business and growth in our Connected Living business, mainly due to growth in domestic extended service contract programs and continued subscriber growth from mobile protection programs. These increases in net earned premiums were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and a decrease in our Global Financial Services and Other business, mainly due to domestic business in run-off. Fees and other income decreased $125.1 million, or 12%, primarily driven by lower mobile trade-in results, mainly due to a $117.0 million impact resulting from the previously mentioned mobile program contract change. Net investment income decreased $56.5 million, or 23%, primarily due to lower cash yields, lower invested asset balances, lower income from real estate and unfavorable foreign exchange. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $158.1 million, or 2%, to $6.97 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $6.81 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired increased $350.2 million, or 12%, primarily due to growth from our Global Automotive and Connected Living businesses. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in policyholder benefits of $103.6 million, or 7%, primarily driven by a favorable mix of mobile business, lower loss experience within our Connected Living and Global Automotive businesses, in part due to COVID-19, partially offset by an increase from growth in those businesses. Underwriting, general and administrative expenses decreased $88.5 million, or 4%, primarily due to a mobile program contract change, as mentioned above, favorable foreign exchange and expense initiatives across the segment, partially offset by an increase from growth in our Global Automotive and Connected Living businesses, including new acquisitions. 52 Global Housing Overview The table below presents information regarding the Global Housing segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net Income Segment net income increased $10.8 million, or 5%, to $244.6 million for Twelve Months 2021 compared to $233.8 million for Twelve Months 2020. Segment net income for Twelve Months 2021 included $113.9 million of reportable catastrophes, primarily related to Hurricane Ida and the Texas winter storms, compared to $137.2 million for Twelve Months 2020. Excluding reportable catastrophes, segment net income decreased $12.5 million, or 3%, driven by higher non-catastrophe loss experience from an anticipated increase to more normalized levels than experienced in Twelve Months 2020 and a $12.3 million year-over-year increase within small commercial that was primarily related to reserve strengthening for run-off claims, as well as lower REO volumes related to COVID-19 foreclosure moratoriums in Lender-placed Insurance. These decreases were partially offset by premium rate and average insured value increases in our Lender-placed Insurance business. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $27.5 million, or 1%, to $2.08 billion for Twelve Months 2021 from $2.05 billion for Twelve Months 2020. Net earned premiums increased $18.2 million, or 1%, primarily due to average insured value and premium rate increases in our Lender-placed Insurance business and continued growth from renters insurance in our Multifamily Housing business. These increases were partially offset by a decline in Specialty and Other from client run-offs, lower REO volumes, higher estimated catastrophe premium and higher reinsurance reinstatement premium primarily related to Hurricane Ida. Net investment income increased $8.2 million, or 11%, primarily due to higher income from real estate related investments. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $12.6 million, or 1%, to $1.77 billion for Twelve Months 2021 from $1.76 billion for Twelve Months 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in policyholder benefits of $10.5 million, or 1%, from higher non-catastrophe losses, primarily in Lender-placed Insurance and, to a lesser extent, Specialty and Other and Multifamily Housing, from an anticipated increase to more normalized levels than experienced in Twelve Months 2020 as well as an increase in reserves related to the cost of settling run-off claims within our small commercial product, partially offset by a decrease in reportable catastrophe losses. Amortization of DAC and VOBA increased $8.0 million, or 4%, consistent with the 53 increase in net earned premium. Underwriting, general and administrative expenses decreased $5.9 million, or 1%, primarily due to a decrease in commission expense in our Specialty and Other business, partially offset by an increase in expenses from growth and continued investments in Multifamily Housing. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income Segment net income decreased $24.9 million, or 10%, to $233.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $258.7 million for Twelve Months 2019. Segment net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes, due to several storms in 2020, compared to $40.9 million in Twelve Months 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, segment net income increased $71.4 million, or 24%, primarily driven by favorable non-catastrophe losses across all major lines of businesses, including underwriting improvements in sharing economy offerings. The increase was also driven by higher premium rates in our Lender-placed Insurance business, the absence of losses from our small commercial product and lower operating expenses in our Lender-placed Insurance business. The increase was partially offset by lower REO volume and fee income in our Lender-placed Insurance business, fewer policies in-force from a financially insolvent client and lower investment income. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $78.8 million, or 4%, to $2.05 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $2.13 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Net earned premiums decreased $51.5 million, or 3%, primarily due to declines in our Lender-placed Insurance business, declines in our small commercial business, a reduction in policies in-force for a financially insolvent client and lower REO volume. This decrease was partially offset by premium rate increases in our Lender-placed Insurance business, continued growth from renters insurance in our Multifamily Housing business and growth from our Specialty and Other business, mainly sharing economy products. Net investment income decreased $22.4 million, or 24%, primarily due to lower income from real estate related investments, lower cash yields and a decrease in invested assets. Fees and other income decreased $4.9 million, or 3%, primarily due to a decline in our Lender-placed Insurance business, mostly due to lower loss draft volume. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $47.6 million, or 3%, to $1.76 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $1.80 billion for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $34.3 million, or 5%, in underwriting, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to lower employment related expenses in our Lender-placed Insurance business. Policyholder benefits decreased $17.4 million, or 2%, mainly from lower non-catastrophe losses across all major lines of businesses and the absence of losses from our small commercial product, partially offset by higher reportable catastrophe losses. 54 Corporate and Other Overview The table below presents information regarding the Corporate and Other segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net Loss from Continuing Operations Segment net loss from continuing operations decreased $34.8 million, or 23%, to $115.8 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $150.6 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily due to a $110.0 million after-tax increase in net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities compared to net losses in the prior year, including $67.5 million of after-tax unrealized gains from four equity positions that went public during Twelve Months 2021, the absence of $25.5 million of after-tax unrealized losses on collateralized loss obligations in Twelve Months 2020 and $19.2 million of after-tax unrealized gains from equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative. The decrease in net loss was also driven by lower general operating expenses, which included a $13.2 million decrease in after-tax direct and incremental expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, and an increase in net investment income. These items were partially offset by the absence of an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act from Twelve Months 2020, a $16.3 million after-tax loss on extinguishment of debt and the absence of an $11.8 million gain related to the reduction of the valuation allowance on our Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act of 2010 (“ACA”) risk corridor program receivable. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $147.5 million to $161.0 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $13.5 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily d riven by an $136.4 million increase in net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities compared to net losses in the prior year , including $85.4 million of unrealized gains from four equity positions that went public during Twelve Months 2021, the absence of $32.3 million of unrealized losses on collateralized loss obligations in Twelve Months 2020 and $24.3 million of unrealized gains from equity securities accounted for under the measurement alternative. The increase is also due to $13.6 million of higher net investment income, mostly driven by gains from the sale of real estate joint venture properties and higher income from limited partnerships. 55 Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $11.1 million, or 4%, to $303.2 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $292.1 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily due to the $20.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt, the absence of certain gains from Twelve Months 2020 that included a $14.8 million gain related to the reduction of the valuation allowance of our ACA risk corridor program receivable and $10.8 million of income, net of certain exit costs from the sale of our CLO asset management platform. These increases were partially offset by $17.3 million of lower operating expenses, including employee-related and third-party expenses, and a $16.8 million decrease in direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Loss from Continuing Operations Segment net loss from continuing operations decreased $211.0 million, or 58%, to $150.6 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $361.6 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from decreases in the estimated fair value of Iké, an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act in Twelve Months 2020, the absence of $29.6 million of after-tax debt related charges associated with refinancing debt at a lower interest rate in Twelve Months 2019. These increases were partially offset by a $55.8 million after-tax decrease in net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities as well as $21.2 million of after-tax direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $81.7 million, or 86%, to $13.5 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $95.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by an $65.2 million decrease in net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities mostly due to $22.6 million of higher net unrealized losses from the decrease in fair value of our collateralized loan obligations, $21.4 million of lower net unrealized gains on equity securities, a $15.6 million increase in impairments on equity investments accounted for under the measurement alternative and a decrease in net realized gains from sales of fixed maturity securities. The decrease was also driven by $18.7 million of lower net investment income due to a higher concentration of lower yielding liquid investments in 2020 compared to 2019 and lower income from real estate. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $210.2 million, or 42%, to $292.1 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $502.3 million for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease in expenses for Twelve Months 2020 was primarily due to the absence of certain events that occurred in Twelve Months 2019, mainly $157.1 million of lower losses associated with Iké, $37.4 million of debt related charges associated with refinancing debt at a lower interest rate and a $15.6 million impairment of certain intangible assets from our acquisition of Green Tree Insurance Agency. The decrease was also due to $10.0 million of income, net of certain exit costs, from the sale of our CLO asset management platform, $10.0 million increase in the net pension benefit and the absence of a $9.6 million loss on the sale of our Mortgage Solutions business in Twelve Months 2019. These decreases were partially offset by $26.8 million of direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and $11.8 million lower gain related to the reduction of the valuation allowance on the Company’s ACA risk corridor program receivables. 56 Discontinued Operations Overview The table below presents information regarding the results of the discontinued operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Net Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Net income from discontinued operations was $758.9 million for Twelve Months 2021 compared to a net loss from discontinued operations of $77.7 million for Twelve Months 2020. The change was primarily due to a $720.1 million after-tax gain on the sale of the disposed Global Preneed business in Twelve Months 2021. The gain includes $606.0 million in after-tax AOCI, primarily net unrealized gains on investments, that was recognized in earnings upon the sale. The increase was also due to the absence of a $137.8 million after-tax goodwill impairment on the disposed Global Preneed business from Twelve Months 2020. These items were partially offset by lower operating results for the disposed Global Preneed business as Twelve Months 2021 included only seven months of results since the sale closed on August 2, 2021. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $723.1 million to $1.22 billion for Twelve Months 2021 from $499.3 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily due to the gain on the sale of the disposed Global Preneed business. The gain is inclusive of $774.2 million of pre-tax AOCI, primarily net unrealized gains on investments, that was recognized in earnings upon sale. The increase in total revenues was partially offset by a $120.9 million, or 42%, decrease in net investment income, a $60.1 million, or 40%, decrease in fees and other income and a $24.3 million, or 36%, decrease in net earned premiums, primarily because Twelve Months 2021 included only seven months of results. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $306.9 million, or 54%, to $257.9 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $564.8 million for Twelve Months 2020, primarily due to the absence of a $137.8 million goodwill impairment on the disposed Global Preneed business from Twelve Months 2020. The decrease in total benefits, losses and expenses was also due to a $111.7 million, or 39%, decrease in policyholder benefits, a $34.3 million, or 43%, decrease in amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired and a $23.1 million, or 37%, decrease in underwriting, general and administrative expenses, primarily because Twelve Months 2021 included only seven months of results. 57 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations Net loss from discontinued operations was $77.7 million for Twelve Months 2020 compared to net income from discontinued operations of $80.4 million for Twelve Months 2019. The change was primarily due to the $137.8 million after-tax impairment on the disposed Global Preneed business goodwill, lower amortization of deferred gains mainly associated with the sale of Assurant Employee Benefits, higher mortality from COVID-19, a decrease in investment income, an increase in final need policy cancellations in the disposed Global Preneed business in the fourth quarter of 2020, partly due to COVID-19, and updated assumptions for the earnings patterns of new policies. These decreases were partially offset by the absence of a $9.9 million after-tax expense related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period recorded in Twelve Months 2019. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $18.4 million, or 4%, to $499.3 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $517.7 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to a $17.3 million decrease in net realized gains on investments and fair value changes to equity securities mostly due to lower net unrealized gains on equity securities, a $7.1 million decrease in amortization of deferred gains mainly associated with the sale of Assurant Employee Benefits and lower investment income, mainly due to lower income from real estate and lower yielding new money fixed maturity securities purchases. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in net earned premiums and fees and other income, primarily due to growth in domestic pre-funded funeral policies in the U.S. and sales of the Final Need product. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $146.9 million, or 35%, to $564.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $417.9 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to the $137.8 million impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill and an increase in policyholder benefits, mainly driven by the growth in the domestic preneed business. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired, primarily due to the absence of a $14.2 million expense recorded in Twelve Months 2019 related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period, partially offset by growth in the domestic preneed business and higher amortization resulting from the increase in final need policy cancellations in the disposed Global Preneed business in the fourth quarter of 2020. 58 Investments We had total investments of $8.67 billion and $8.22 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Net unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities portfolio decreased $259.5 million during Twelve Months 2021, from $570.9 million at December 31, 2020 to $311.4 million at December 31, 2021, primarily due to an increase in Treasury yields. The following table shows the credit quality of our fixed maturity securities portfolio as of the dates indicated: The following table shows the major categories of net investment income for the periods indicated: (1) The following table shows the revenues net of expenses from consolidated investment entities for the periods indicated. (1) The investment income from the real estate funds includes income attributable to non-controlling interest of $1.1 million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net investment income increased $28.8 million, or 10%, to $314.4 million for Twelve Months 2021 from $285.6 million for Twelve Months 2020. The increase was primarily driven by higher income from other investments mostly due to higher income from sales of real estate joint venture partnerships and higher valuations in our real estate joint venture and other partnerships. Fixed maturity income increased, mostly due to higher asset levels, partially offset by lower yields. Investment expenses decreased due to prior year costs associated with the disposed Global Preneed business and one-time expenses related to the outsourcing of our real estate asset management. These increases were offset in part by a decrease in income from short-term investments and cash and cash equivalents mainly due to continued low yields. Net investment income decreased $97.6 million, or 25%, to $285.6 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $383.2 million for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower income from other investments, primarily due to lower income from sales of real estate joint venture partnerships and lower unrealized gains from increases in fair market value in each period, and a decrease in income from short term investments and cash and cash equivalents mainly due to lower cash 59 yields and unfavorable foreign exchange. The decrease was also due to a reduction in income from fixed maturity securities due to lower-yielding new money bond purchases. As of December 31, 2021, we owned $18.5 million of securities guaranteed by financial guarantee insurance companies. Included in this amount was $14.9 million of municipal securities, whose credit rating was A+ with the guarantee, but would have had a rating of AA- without the guarantee. For more information on our investments, see Notes 8 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following section discusses our ability to generate cash flows from each of our subsidiaries, borrow funds at competitive rates and raise new capital to meet our operating and growth needs. Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our debt and dividends on our common stock. Regulatory Requirements Assurant, Inc. is a holding company and, as such, has limited direct operations of its own. Our assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, such as payments under our tax allocation agreement and under management agreements with our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends and make such other payments is regulated by the states and territories in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. These dividend regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary, but generally require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends they can pay to the holding company. See “Item 1 – Business – Regulation – U.S. Insurance Regulation” and “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Legal and Regulatory Risks – Changes in insurance regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. ” Along with solvency regulations, the primary driver in determining the amount of capital used for dividends from insurance subsidiaries is the level of capital needed to maintain desired financial strength ratings from A.M. Best. For the year ending December 31, 2022, the maximum amount of dividends our regulated U.S. domiciled insurance subsidiaries could pay us, under applicable laws and regulations without prior regulatory approval, is approximately $475.3 million. In addition, our international and non-insurance subsidiaries provide additional sources of dividends. Regulators or rating agencies could become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, increasing capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries or the enterprise. In 2021, the following actions were taken by the rating agencies: A.M. Best • In July 2021, affirmed all financial strength ratings of Assurant, Inc. and our subsidiaries, each with a stable outlook, except for Union Security Life Insurance Company of New York, whose financial strength rating was withdrawn in August 2021 at our request, following the sale of the disposed Global Preneed business. Moody’s • In June 2021, assigned a Baa3 rating to our new 2032 Senior Notes (as defined below) with a stable outlook. • In August 2021, upgraded the insurance financial strength rating of American Bankers Life Assurance Company of Florida to A3 from Baa1. • In March 2021, affirmed all other ratings with a stable outlook. S&P • In June 2021, assigned a BBB rating to our new 2032 Senior Notes (as defined below) with a stable outlook. • In September 2021, affirmed all other ratings with a stable outlook. For further information on our ratings and the risks of ratings downgrades, see “Item 1 – Business – Ratings” and “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – A decline in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. ” 60 Holding Company As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $1.05 billion in holding company liquidity, $827.0 million above our targeted minimum level of $225.0 million. The target minimum level of holding company liquidity, which can be used for unforeseen capital needs at our subsidiaries or liquidity needs at the holding company, is calibrated based on approximately one year of corporate operating losses and interest expenses. We use the term “holding company liquidity” to represent the portion of cash and other liquid marketable securities held at Assurant, Inc., out of a total of $1.16 billion of holding company investment securities and cash, which we are not otherwise holding for a specific purpose as of the balance sheet date. We can use such assets for stock repurchases, stockholder dividends, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. Dividends or returns of capital paid by our subsidiaries, net of infusions and excluding amounts used for or as a result of acquisitions or received from dispositions, were $728.6 million and $821.0 million for Twelve Months 2021 and Twelve Months 2020, respectively, which included approximately $12.0 million and $31.0 million, respectively, of dividends from subsidiaries, net of infusions, in the disposed Global Preneed business. We use these cash inflows primarily to pay holding company operating expenses, to make interest payments on indebtedness, to make dividend payments to our common stockholders, to fund investments and acquisitions, and to repurchase our common stock. From time to time, we may also seek to purchase outstanding debt in open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions. Dividends and Repurchases During Twelve Months 2021 and Twelve Months 2020, we made common stock repurchases and paid dividends to our common stockholders of $1.00 billion and $454.4 million, respectively. On January 11, 2022, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.68 per common share payable on March 21, 2022 to stockholders of record as of February 28, 2022. We paid dividends of $0.68 per common share on December 20, 2021 to stockholders of record as of November 29, 2021. This represented a 3% increase to the quarterly dividend of $0.66 per common share paid on September 21, June 22, and March 15, 2021. We paid a quarterly dividend of $1.6250 per share of MCPS on March 15, 2021 to stockholders of record as of March 1, 2021, which was the final dividend paid on the MCPS. The MCPS converted into shares of common stock in March 2021. Refer to “— Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ” below. Any determination to pay future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent upon various factors, including: our subsidiaries’ payments of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial condition and capital requirements; general business conditions and growth prospects; any legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and any other factors the Board deems relevant. The Credit Facility also contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and repurchase capital stock if we are in default, or such dividend payments or repurchases would cause us to be in default, of our obligations thereunder. In addition, if we elect to defer the payment of interest on our Subordinated Notes, we generally may not make payments on or repurchase any shares of our capital stock. During Twelve Months 2021, we repurchased 5,337,122 shares of our outstanding common stock at a cost of $844.4 million, exclusive of commissions. In January and May 2021, the Board authorized new share repurchase programs for up to $600.0 million and $900.0 million, respectively, of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2021, $842.1 million aggregate cost at purchase remained unused under the May 2021 authorization. The timing and the amount of future repurchases will depend on various factors, including those listed above. We expect to deploy capital primarily to support business growth, fund other investments and return capital to shareholders, subject to Board approval and market conditions. In addition, we completed the sale of the disposed Global Preneed business to CUNA in August 2021 for net proceeds of $1.31 billion and, as previously disclosed, we intend to return $900.0 million to shareholders through share repurchases within one year of closing. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock In March 2018, we issued 2,875,000 shares of our MCPS. In March 2021, each outstanding share of MCPS converted automatically into 0.9405 shares of common stock, or 2,703,911 common shares in total plus an immaterial amount of cash in lieu of fractional shares. Dividends on the MCPS were payable on a cumulative basis when, as and if declared, at an annual rate of 6.50% of the liquidation preference of $100.00 per share. We paid preferred stock dividends of $4.7 million and $18.7 million for Twelve Months 2021 and Twelve Months 2020, respectively. For additional information regarding the MCPS, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. 61 Assurant Subsidiaries The primary sources of funds for our subsidiaries consist of premiums and fees collected, proceeds from the sales and maturity of investments and net investment income. Cash is primarily used to pay insurance claims, agent commissions, operating expenses and taxes. We generally invest our subsidiaries’ funds in order to generate investment income. We conduct periodic asset liability studies to measure the duration of our insurance liabilities, to develop optimal asset portfolio maturity structures for our significant lines of business and ultimately to assess that cash flows are sufficient to meet the timing of cash needs. These studies are conducted in accordance with formal company-wide Asset Liability Management guidelines. To complete a study for a particular line of business, models are developed to project asset and liability cash flows and balance sheet items under a varied set of plausible economic scenarios. These models consider many factors including the current investment portfolio, the required capital for the related assets and liabilities, our tax position and projected cash flows from both existing and projected new business. For risks related to modeling, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – Actual results may differ materially from the analytical models we use to assist in our decision-making in key areas such as pricing, catastrophe risks, reserving and capital management. ” Alternative asset portfolio asset allocations are analyzed for significant lines of business. An investment portfolio maturity structure is then selected from these profiles given our return hurdle and risk appetite. Scenario testing of significant liability assumptions and new business projections is also performed. Our liabilities generally do not include policyholder optionality, which means that the timing of payments is generally insensitive to the interest rate environment. In addition, our investment portfolio is largely comprised of highly liquid public fixed maturity securities with a sufficient component of such securities invested that are near maturity which may be sold with minimal risk of loss to meet cash needs. Generally, our subsidiaries’ premiums, fees and investment income, along with planned asset sales and maturities, provide sufficient cash to pay claims and expenses. However, there may be instances when unexpected cash needs arise in excess of that available from usual operating sources. In such instances, we have several options to raise needed funds, including selling assets from the subsidiaries’ investment portfolios, using holding company cash (if available), issuing commercial paper, or drawing funds from the Credit Facility (as defined below). Senior and Subordinated Notes The following table shows the principal amount and carrying value of our outstanding debt, less unamortized discount and issuance costs as applicable, as of December 31, 2021 and 2020: In January 2021, we repaid the remaining $50.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our floating rate senior notes due March 2021. In June 2021, we issued 2.65% senior notes due January 2032 with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the “2032 Senior Notes”). We used the proceeds from the issuance along with cash on hand, to redeem all of the $350.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 4.00% senior notes due March 2023 and paid accrued interest, related premiums, fees and expenses in July 2021. 62 In the next five years, we have one upcoming debt maturity in September 2023 when our 4.20% senior notes with an outstanding aggregate principal of $300.0 million are due. For additional information, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program In December 2021, we entered into a $500.0 million five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of banks arranged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association. The Credit Facility replaced our prior five-year $450.0 million revolving credit facility, which terminated upon the effectiveness of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility provides for revolving loans and the issuance of multi-bank, syndicated letters of credit and letters of credit from a sole issuing bank in an aggregate amount of $500.0 million, which may be increased up to $700.0 million. The Credit Facility is available until December 2026, provided we are in compliance with all covenants. The Credit Facility has a sublimit for letters of credit issued thereunder of $50.0 million. The proceeds from these loans may be used for our commercial paper program or for general corporate purposes. We made no borrowings using the Credit Facility or our prior five-year $450.0 million revolving credit facility during Twelve Months 2021 and no loans were outstanding as of December 31, 2021. Our commercial paper program requires us to maintain liquidity facilities either in an available amount equal to any outstanding notes from the program or in an amount sufficient to maintain the ratings assigned to the notes issued from the program. Our commercial paper is rated AMB-1 by A.M. Best, P-3 by Moody’s and A-2 by S&P. Our subsidiaries do not maintain commercial paper or other borrowing facilities. This program is currently backed up by the Credit Facility, of which $495.5 million was available as of December 31, 2021, and $4.5 million letters of credit were outstanding. We did not use the commercial paper program during Twelve Months 2021 and there were no amounts relating to the commercial paper program outstanding as of December 31, 2021. Covenants The Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants including: (i) Maintenance of a maximum consolidated total debt to capitalization ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter of not greater than 0.35 to 1.0; and (ii) Maintenance of a consolidated adjusted net worth in an amount not less than a “Minimum Amount” equal to the sum of (a) $4.20 billion, (b) 25% of consolidated net income (if positive) for each fiscal quarter ending after December 31, 2021 and (c) 25% of the net cash proceeds received from any capital contribution to, or issuance of any capital stock, disqualified capital stock and hybrid securities. In the event of a breach of certain covenants, all obligations under the Credit Facility, including unpaid principal and accrued interest and outstanding letters of credit, may become immediately due and payable. Letters of Credit In the normal course of business, letters of credit are issued primarily to support reinsurance arrangements in which we are the reinsurer. These letters of credit are supported by commitments under which we are required to indemnify the financial institution issuing the letter of credit if the letter of credit is drawn. We had $7.2 million and $7.6 million of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Cash Flows We monitor cash flows at the consolidated, holding company and subsidiary levels. Cash flow forecasts at the consolidated and subsidiary levels are provided on a monthly basis, and we use trend and variance analyses to project future cash needs making adjustments to the forecasts when needed. The table below shows our recent net cash flows for the periods indicated: 63 Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 Operating Activities We typically generate operating cash inflows from premiums collected from our insurance products, fees received for services and income received from our investments while outflows consist of policy acquisition costs, benefits paid and operating expenses. These net cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $630.5 million and $1.11 billion for Twelve Months 2021 and Twelve Months 2020, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the timing of certain cash payments and business activities from our Global Lifestyle segment. The primary factors contributing to the variance included timing of cumulative payments to a vendor related to various programs for acquiring mobile devices used to meet insurance claims or generate profits through sales to third parties and higher commission payments associated with fourth quarter 2020 premiums that were paid in first quarter 2021. The decrease was also due to the absence of a $204.9 million tax refund, including interest, related to the ability to carry back operating losses to prior periods under the CARES Act that was collected during Twelve Months 2020 and higher tax payments, net of refunds, primarily due to the gain on sale of the disposed Global Preneed business and an increase in taxable income for Twelve Months 2021. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in premiums collected in connection with the continued growth in Global Automotive. Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $1.11 billion and $1.13 billion for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the timing of certain cash payments and business activities from our Global Lifestyle business. The primary factors contributing to the decrease included the absence of a prior year receipt of prepaid premiums in Japan given subsequent changes in payment terms under the program and the timing of cumulative payments to a vendor related to a program initiated in 2019 for acquiring mobile devices used to meet insurance claims or generate profits through sales to third parties. These decreases were partially offset by receipt of a $204.9 million tax refund, which includes interest, related to the ability to carryback net operating losses to prior periods under the CARES Act and higher collections of premium receivable balances mostly due to timing. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities from continuing operations was $302.8 million for Twelve Months 2021 compared to net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations of $519.4 million for Twelve Months 2020, respectively. The increase in cash provided by investing activities was primarily driven by an increase in cash from sales and maturities, net of purchases, due to the ongoing management of our investment portfolio and a reduction in net cash used for acquisitions. Twelve Months 2021 included $1.27 billion of proceeds from the sale of the disposed Global Preneed business that were mostly reinvested within our investment portfolio. Twelve Months 2020 included $135.8 million of net cash used for 64 the AFAS acquisition, $276.8 million of net cash used for the HYLA acquisition and $51.3 million of cash outflow, net of $22.0 million of proceeds from a foreign currency hedge, for the sale of our interests in Iké. Additionally, Twelve Months 2020 included a $34.0 million cash outflow to Iké Grupo for the Iké Loan that was repaid and reflected as a net cash inflow for Twelve Months 2021. These increases were partially offset by the absence of $197.1 million of net cash provided by consolidated investment entities and a $66.2 million increase in purchases of property and equipment mostly due to continued investments in information technology supporting our core operations. Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations was $519.4 million and $336.9 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $458.6 million of cash used for acquisitions, net of $135.5 million of cash acquired, partially offset by the timing of net purchases of securities in connection with collateralized loan obligations structures launched in 2019. For additional information, see Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. The remaining changes were due to the ongoing management of our investment portfolio. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $1.09 billion and $264.8 million for Twelve Months 2021 and Twelve Months 2020, respectively. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was mainly due to a $542.3 million increase in share repurchases, a portion of which was funded using the proceeds from the Global Preneed sale, the issuance of the 5.25% subordinated notes due January 2061 with an aggregate principal amount of $250.0 million (the “2061 Subordinated Notes”), net of issuance costs, of $243.7 million in Twelve Months 2020, the $50.0 million repayment of our floating rate senior notes due March 2021 in first quarter 2021 and the loss on extinguishment of debt related to the repayment of our 4.00% senior notes due March 2023. Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations was $264.8 million and $179.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to $268.4 million of lower cash from our CIEs provided, net of repayments of borrowings to short-term warehouse facilities, primarily related to the timing of CLO structures launched in 2019. Also contributing was an increase in the repurchase of the Company’s outstanding common stock for Twelve Months 2020. These were partially offset by the issuance of the 2061 Subordinated Notes, net of issuance costs, of $243.7 million in Twelve Months 2020 and a $31.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in connection with the tender offer of $100.0 million of our 6.75% notes due 2034 recorded in Twelve Months 2019. For additional information, see Notes 9 and 19, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Discontinued operations Changes in cash flows from the operating and investing activities from our discontinued operations for Twelve Months 2021 as compared to Twelve Months 2020 were lower mainly due to Twelve Months 2021 including only seven months of net cash flows since the sale closed on August 2, 2021. Cash flows provided by operating activities from our discontinued operations for Twelve Months 2020 compared to Twelve Months 2019 were lower mainly due to higher mortality in Twelve Months 2020 and an increase in final need policy cancellations in the disposed Global Preneed business in Twelve Months 2020, partially due to COVID-19. Cash flows used in investing activities from discontinued operations for Twelve Months 2020 compared to Twelve Months 2019 were lower due to ongoing management of the investment portfolio. The table below shows our cash outflows for taxes, interest and dividends for the periods indicated: 65 Contractual Obligations and Commitments We have contractual obligations and commitments to third parties as a result of our operations, as detailed in the table below by maturity date as of December 31, 2021: (1) Insurance liabilities reflect undiscounted estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders, net of expected future premium cash receipts on in-force policies and excluding fully reinsured runoff operations. The total gross reserve for fully reinsured runoff operations that was excluded was $625.7 million which, if the reinsurers defaulted, would be payable over a 30+ year period with the majority of the payments occurring after 5 years. Additional information on the reinsurance arrangements can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. As a result, the amounts presented in this table do not agree to the future policy benefits and expenses and claims and benefits payable in the consolidated balance sheets. (2) Our pension obligations and postretirement benefits include an Assurant Pension Plan, various non-qualified pension plans (including an Executive Pension Plan) and certain life and health care benefits for retired employees and their dependents (“Retirement Health Benefits”), all of which were frozen in 2016. In February 2020, we amended the Retirement Health Benefits to terminate such plan benefits to retirees effective December 31, 2024. Due to the Assurant Pension Plan’s current overfunded status, no contributions were made during 2021 and none are expected to be made in 2022. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. Liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses have been included in the commitments and contingencies table. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation, contract terms and the timing of payments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company.