********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. You should carefully consider them, along with the other information presented in this Report. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also materially harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Business, Strategic and Operational Risks • Our revenues and profits may decline if we are unable to maintain relationships with significant clients, distributors and other parties, or renew contracts with them on favorable terms, or if those parties face financial, reputational or regulatory issues. • Significant competitive pressures, changes in customer preferences and disruption could adversely affect our results of operations. • The success of our business depends on the execution and implementation of our strategy, and the continuing service of key executives, senior management and other highly-skilled personnel. • We may be unable to grow our business if we cannot find suitable acquisition candidates at attractive prices, integrate acquired businesses effectively or identify new areas for organic growth. • Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a business continuity event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Failure to successfully manage vendors and other third parties could adversely affect our business. • We face risks associated with our international operations. • Our mobile business is subject to the risk of declines in the value of mobile devices in our inventory, to the risk of guaranteed buybacks, and to export compliance and other risks. • Sales of our products and services may decline if we are unable to develop and maintain distribution sources or attract and retain sales representatives and executives with key client relationships. • We face risks associated with joint ventures, franchises and investments in which we share ownership or management with third parties. • Negative publicity relating to our business or industry may adversely affect our financial results. • Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks • General economic, financial market and political conditions and conditions in the markets in which we operate may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses, including as a result of climate change, could materially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Financial Risks • Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, requiring us to establish additional reserves or to incur additional expense for settling unreserved liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital. • We may be unable to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs, which could reduce our profitability. • A decline in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 19 • A credit rating agency downgrade of our corporate senior debt rating could adversely impact on our business. • Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. • An impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations and book value. • Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. • Unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may significantly and adversely affect our access to capital and our ability to pay our debts or expenses. • Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk, including changes in interest rates, that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • Our investment portfolio is subject to credit, liquidity and other risks that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers. • Through reinsurance, we have sold or exited businesses that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the reinsurers become insolvent. • Due to the structure of our commission program, we are exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness and reporting systems of some of our agents, third-party administrators and clients. • Our subsidiaries’ inability to pay us sufficient dividends could prevent us from meeting our obligations and paying future stockholder dividends. • Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock or repurchase shares may be limited. Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks • The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. • We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. • The costs of complying with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and reputation. Legal and Regulatory Risks • We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business, and violations or alleged violations of such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. • Changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. • Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. • Our business is subject to risks related to reductions in the insurance premium rates we charge. • Changes in insurance regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. General Risk Factors • Our common stock may be subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. • Employee misconduct could harm us by subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm. For a more complete discussion of these risks, please see below. Business, Strategic and Operational Risks 20 Our revenues and profits may decline if we are unable to maintain relationships with significant clients, distributors and other parties, or renew contracts with them on favorable terms, or if those parties face financial, reputational or regulatory issues. The success of our business depends largely on our relationships and contractual arrangements with significant clients, distributors and other parties, including vendors. Many of these arrangements are exclusive and some rely on preferred provider or similar relationships. If our key clients, distributors, vendors or other parties terminate important business arrangements with us, or renew contracts on terms less favorable to us, we may fail to meet our business objectives and targets, and our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Each of our Global Lifestyle, Global Housing and Global Preneed segments receives a substantial portion of its revenue from a few clients. A reduction in business with or the loss of one or more of our significant clients could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows of individual segments or the Company. Reliance on a few significant clients may weaken our bargaining power and we may be unable to renew contracts with them on favorable terms or at all. Examples of important business arrangements include, at Global Lifestyle, exclusive and non-exclusive relationships with mobile device carriers, retailers, dealerships, MSOs, OEMs and financial and other institutions through which we distribute our products and services. At Global Housing, we have exclusive and non-exclusive relationships with mortgage lenders and servicers, manufactured housing lenders, property managers and financial and other institutions. At Global Preneed, we have an exclusive distribution relationship with SCI relating to the distribution of our preneed insurance policies. We are also subject to the risk that clients, distributors and other parties may face financial difficulties, reputational issues, problems with respect to their own products and services or regulatory restrictions or compliance issues that may lead to a decrease in or cessation of sales of our products and services and have other adverse impacts on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition, our clients and other parties with whom we do business may choose to exit lines of business that we service or may disintermediate us by developing internal capabilities, products or services that would allow them to service their clients without our involvement. Furthermore, if one or more of our clients or distributors, for example in the wireless and related markets, consolidate or align themselves with other companies with whom we do not do business, they may choose to utilize or distribute the products and services of our competitors, which could materially reduce our revenues and profits. Significant competitive pressures, changes in customer preferences and disruption could adversely affect our results of operations. We compete for business, customers, agents and other distribution relationships with many insurance companies, financial services companies, mobile device repair and logistics companies, technology and software companies and specialized competitors that focus on one market, product or service. Some of our competitors may offer a broader array of products and services than we do or be better able to tailor those products and services to customer needs, including through better technology systems or infrastructure, or may have greater diversity of distribution resources, better brand recognition, more competitive pricing, lower costs, greater financial strength, more resources or higher ratings. There is a risk that purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms and offerings from competitors, vendors or other third parties, including pricing and technology. Additionally, customers may turn to our competitors as a result of our failure to deliver on customer expectations, product or service flaws, technology issues, gaps in operational support or other issues affecting customer experience. As a result, competition may adversely affect the persistency of our policies, our ability to sell products and provide services and our revenues and results of operations. To remain competitive in many of our businesses, we must anticipate and respond effectively to changes in customer preferences, new industry standards, evolving distribution models, and disruptive technology developments and alternate business models. For Global Lifestyle, in particular, the evolving nature of consumer needs and preferences and improvements in technology could result in a reduction in consumer demand and in the prices of the products and services we offer. In addition, across many of our businesses, we must respond to the threat of disruption by traditional players, such as insurers, as well as from new entrants, such “Insurtech” start-up companies and others. These players are focused on using technology and innovation to simplify and improve the customer experience, increase efficiencies, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the markets in which we operate. In order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new technologies and new ways to deliver our products and services. If we do not anticipate and respond to customer preferences and disruptive changes, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. The success of our business depends on the execution and implementation of our strategy, and the continuing service of key executives, senior management and other highly-skilled personnel. Our strategy is focused on delivering long-term profitable growth. As part of our strategy, we are investing in technology and other capabilities to continuously enhance our customer experience, while also seeking to increase efficiencies. We are also developing new and innovative products and enhancing existing products. We will continue to incur expenses related to, among 21 other things, investments in digital capabilities and large-scale, critical programs, such as information technology systems and infrastructure, and product innovation, as well as costs associated with businesses in runoff or that have been sold. Our long-term strategy depends on successful operational execution and our ability to execute on our transformational initiatives, including significant divestitures, combined with our ability to achieve efficiencies and attract and retain personnel. We rely on the continued service of key executives, senior management and other highly-skilled personnel throughout our business to achieve our long-term strategy. We believe that our future success depends in substantial part on our ability to recruit, hire, motivate, develop and retain highly-skilled personnel, particularly those with specialized knowledge in areas such as digital, customer experience, and data and analytics, and within our key industries, including mobile and related adjacencies. Doing so may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in economic and industry conditions, employee tolerance for the significant amount of change within and demands on the Company, the effectiveness of our compensation programs and competition. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, many companies, including us, have transitioned a portion of the workforce to remote work, which may result in increased competition for highly-skilled personnel who are no longer limited to employment opportunities within a particular geographic location. In addition, we rely on attracting and retaining talent, including at the executive officer level, with diverse backgrounds and experiences to effectively oversee our businesses and our long-term strategy. If we do not succeed in attracting, retaining and motivating key personnel, including diverse personnel, our revenue growth and profitability may be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to adequately plan for and successfully carry out the succession of our key executives and senior management. We may be unable to grow our business if we cannot find suitable acquisition candidates at attractive prices, integrate acquired businesses effectively or identify new areas for organic growth. We expect acquisitions to continue to play a role in the growth of some of our businesses. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or new venture opportunities or to finance or complete such transactions on acceptable terms. Additionally, the integration of acquired businesses may result in significant challenges and additional costs, and we may be unable to accomplish such integration smoothly or successfully. Acquisitions may not provide us with the benefits that we anticipate, require significant effort and expenditures, and entail numerous risks, difficulties and uncertainties. These include, among others, diversion of management’s attention and resources to integration of operations and infrastructure, which could otherwise have been devoted to other strategic opportunities; inaccurate assessment of risks and liabilities; difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings, including the incurrence of unexpected integration costs; difficulties in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; exposure to jurisdictions or businesses with heightened legal and regulatory risks, including corruption; difficulties in integrating operations and systems, including cybersecurity and other technology systems and compliance; difficulties in assimilating employees and corporate cultures; failure to achieve anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows, business opportunities and growth prospects; an increase in our indebtedness or future borrowing costs; and limitations on our ability to access additional capital when needed. Our failure to adequately address these and other acquisition risks, difficulties and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our stock may decline if we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully, if the integration takes longer than expected or fails to achieve financial benefits to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors, or if the effect of the business combination on the financial results of the combined company is otherwise not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. Our ability to effectively identify and capitalize on opportunities for organic growth depends on, among other things, our ability to: deliver on customer expectations and provide a positive customer experience; successfully execute large-scale, critical programs and projects in a timely and cost-effective manner; identify and successfully enter and market our services in new geographic markets and market segments; recruit and retain qualified personnel; coordinate our efforts across various geographic markets and market segments; maintain and grow relationships with our existing customers and expand our customer base; offer new products and services; form strategic alliances and partnerships; secure key vendor and distributor relationships; and access sufficient capital. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing on our organic growth initiatives or that those initiatives will provide us with the expected benefits. Our failure to effectively identify and capitalize on opportunities for organic growth could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a business continuity event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we experience a local or regional business continuity event, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, computer, telecommunication or other systems failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue operations will depend on an effective disaster recovery plan and system, including the continued availability of our personnel, vendors and other third parties and work facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other systems and operations. We have from time to time experienced business continuity 22 events, including events that impacted the availability of our systems. See “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired businesses could adversely affect our business .” Our operations depend in particular upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage and interruption. If a business continuity event occurs, we could lose Company, customer, vendor and other third-party data, lose significant processing capability or experience interruptions to our operations or delivery of products and services to our clients and their customers, which has occurred from time to time and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A cyber attack or other business continuity event affecting us or key third parties with whom we work could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. An extended outage could result in the loss of premium income, fee income and clients, reputational damage, substantial volatility in our financial results and a decline in our revenues. See “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations .” The risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas, including major metropolitan centers, such as New York City, where our corporate offices are located, and certain catastrophe-prone areas, such as Miami, Florida, where we have significant operations. This risk is also heightened in certain countries and regions in which we operate that are subject to higher potential threat of terrorist attacks, military conflicts, political instability and data breaches. A disaster or other business continuity event on a significant scale or affecting our key businesses or our data center, or our inability to successfully and quickly recover from such an event and any legislative and regulatory responses thereto, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, loss of customers or damaged customer relationships, legal liability and other adverse consequences. Our liability insurance policies may not fully cover, in type or amount, the cost of a successful recovery in the event of such a disruption. Failure to successfully manage vendors and other third parties could adversely affect our business. As we continue to improve operating efficiencies, we rely on vendors and other third parties, including independent contractors, to conduct business and provide services to our clients. For example, we use vendors and other third parties for business, investment management, information technology, call centers, facilities management and other services. We take steps to monitor and regulate the performance of vendors and other third parties, including in our agreements with such parties, but our oversight controls could prove inadequate. Since we do not fully control the actions of vendors and other third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions or operations adversely impact us and replacing them could create significant delay and expense. If these vendors or other third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or if they fail to comply with legal or regulatory requirements in a high-quality and timely manner, our operations and reputation could be compromised, we may not realize the anticipated economic and other benefits from these arrangements, and we could suffer adverse legal, regulatory and financial consequences. In addition, these third parties face their own technology, operating, business and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee or Company information or failure to comply with applicable law, could cause harm to our reputation or otherwise expose us to liability. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, financial difficulties or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients or employees, damage to our reputation and harm to our business. If we are unable to attract and retain relationships with qualified vendors, independent contractors and other third-party service providers, or if changes in law or judicial decisions require independent contractors to be classified as employees, our business could be significantly adversely affected. To the extent we engage international vendors or third parties to provide services or carry out business functions, we are also exposed to the risks that accompany operations in a foreign jurisdiction, including international economic and political conditions, foreign laws and regulations, fluctuations in currency values and, potentially, increased risk of data breaches. For more information on the risks associated with the use of international vendors and third parties, see “ – We face risks associated with our international operations. ” We face risks associated with our international operations. Our international operations face economic, political, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks. For example, we face the risk of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations and the associated risk and costs of non-compliance; exposure to undeveloped or evolving legal systems, which may result in unpredictable or inconsistent application of laws and regulations; exposure to commercial, political, legal or regulatory corruption; political, economic or other instability in countries in which we conduct 23 business, including possible terrorist acts; the imposition of tariffs, trade barriers or other protectionist laws or business practices that favor local competition, increase costs and adversely affect our business; inflation and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; diminished ability to enforce our contractual rights; potential increased risk of data breaches; differences in cultural environments; changes in regulatory requirements, including changes in regulatory treatment of certain products or services; exposure to local economic conditions and its impact on our clients’ performance and creditworthiness; and restrictions on the repatriation of non-U.S. investments and earnings. If our business model is not successful in a particular country or region, or a country or region in which we do business experiences economic, political or other instability, we may lose all or part of our investment in that country or region. As we continue to expand in select worldwide markets, our business becomes increasingly exposed to these and other risks, in particular where certain countries or regions have recently experienced economic or political instability, such as in Argentina, Brazil and the United Kingdom. As we engage with international clients, we may make certain up-front commission payments or similar cash outlays, which we may not recover if the business does not develop as we expect. These up-front payments are typically supported by various protections, such as letters of credit, letters of guarantee and real estate, but we may not fully or timely recover amounts owed to us as a result of difficulties in enforcing contracts or judgments in undeveloped or evolving legal systems and other factors. As our international business grows, we rely increasingly on fronting carriers in certain countries to maintain their licenses and product approvals, satisfy local regulatory requirements and continue in business. If they fail to do so, our business, reputation and relationships with our customers could be adversely affected. For additional information on the significant international regulations that apply to us, including data protection regulations, and the risks relating thereto, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation – International Regulation” in this Report, “ – Legal and Regulatory Risks – We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business, and violations or alleged violations of such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations, ” “ – Legal and Regulatory Risks – Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions ” and “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – The costs of complying with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and reputation. ” Our mobile business is subject to the risk of declines in the value of mobile devices in our inventory, to the risk of guaranteed buybacks, and to export compliance and other risks. The value of the mobile devices that we collect and refurbish for our clients may fall below the prices we have paid or guaranteed, which could adversely affect our profitability. In our mobile business, we carry inventory to meet the delivery requirements of certain clients and we provide the guaranteed buyback of devices as part of our trade-in and upgrade offerings. These devices are ultimately disposed of through sales to third parties. Our mobile business is subject to the risk that the value of devices and parts will be adversely affected by technological changes affecting the usefulness or desirability of the devices and parts, physical problems resulting from faulty design or manufacturing, increased competition and growing industry emphasis on cost containment. The value of devices may also be impacted by an escalation of trade tensions between the U.S. and China, including with respect to trade policies, treaties, government relations, tariffs and other trade restrictions.  If the value of devices or parts is significantly reduced, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our sales of mobile devices to third parties, particularly those domiciled outside of the U.S., subject us to compliance risks relating to export control laws and regulations. Furthermore, third parties to whom we sell mobile devices may violate such laws and regulations, which could subject us to liability.  Non-compliance with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For more information on the risks relating to our international operations, see “ – We face risks associated with our international operations. ” Sales of our products and services may decline if we are unable to develop and maintain distribution sources or attract and retain sales representatives and executives with key client relationships. We distribute many of our insurance products and services through a variety of distribution channels, including mobile carriers, financial institutions, mortgage lenders and servicers, retailers, funeral homes, association groups, other third-party marketing organizations and, to a limited extent, our own captives and affiliated agents. Our relationships with these distributors are significant for our revenues and profits. There is intense competition for distribution outlets. Agents who distribute our products are typically not exclusively dedicated to us, but also market the products of our competitors. In some cases, such agents may be affiliated with other insurers who may choose to write the product that such agents are now selling on our behalf. Therefore, we face continued competition from competing products and services. We also have our own sales representatives. We depend in large part on our sales representatives and segment executives to develop and maintain client relationships. Our inability to attract and retain effective sales representatives and executives with key client relationships could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 24 We face risks associated with joint ventures, franchises and investments in which we share ownership or management with third parties. From time to time, we have and may continue to enter into joint ventures and franchises and invest in entities in which we share ownership or management with third parties. In certain circumstances, we may not have complete control over governance, financial reporting, operations, legal and regulatory compliance or other matters relating to such joint ventures, franchises or entities. As a result, we may face certain operating, financial, legal and regulatory compliance and other risks relating to these joint ventures, franchises and entities, including risks related to the financial strength of joint venture partners, franchisees and other investors; the willingness of joint venture partners, franchisees and other investors to provide adequate funding for the joint venture, franchise or entity; differing goals, strategies, priorities or objectives between us and joint venture partners, franchisees or other investors; our inability to unilaterally implement actions, policies or procedures with respect to the joint venture, franchise or entity that we believe are favorable; legal and regulatory compliance risks relating to actions of the joint venture, franchise, entity, joint venture partners, franchisees or other investors; the risk that the actions of joint venture partners, franchisees and other investors could damage our brand image and reputation; and the risk that we will be unable to resolve disputes with joint venture partners, franchisees or other investors. As a result, joint ventures, franchises and investments in which we share ownership or management subject us to risk and may contribute significantly less than anticipated to our earnings and cash flows. Negative publicity relating to our business or industry may adversely affect our financial results. We communicate with and distribute our products and services ultimately to individual consumers. There may be a perception that some of these purchasers may be financially unsophisticated and therefore in need of consumer protection. Accordingly, from time to time, consumer advocacy groups and the media may focus their attention on our products and services, which may subject us to negative publicity. We may also be negatively affected if another company in one of our industries or in a related industry engages in practices that subject our industry or businesses to negative publicity. Negative publicity may also result from judicial inquiries, unfavorable outcomes in lawsuits, social media, regulatory or governmental actions with respect to our products or services and industry commercial practices. For example, we may be subject to regulatory queries to assess practices in the insurance sector that potentially disadvantage people of color or historically underrepresented groups in certain insurance lines of business. In addition, there is increased focus on social responsibility matters, including diversity, equity and inclusion, and commitment to long-term sustainability. A failure or perceived failure in our achievement of various social responsibility initiatives and goals we may from time to time announce, or an actual or perceived increase in related risks as a result of our or our industry’s business activities, may subject us to negative publicity. Negative publicity may cause increased regulation and legislative scrutiny of industry practices as well as increased litigation or enforcement action by civil and criminal authorities. Additionally, negative publicity may increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, constraining our ability to price our products appropriately for the risks we are assuming, requiring us to change the products and services we offer or increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that some stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. For example, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an “interested stockholder” to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our directors, which could delay, defer or prevent a change in control. Such provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. Additionally, applicable state and foreign insurance laws may require prior approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurer. State statutes generally provide, and certain foreign statutes provide, that control over a domestic insurer is presumed to exist when any person directly or indirectly owns, controls, has voting power over, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the domestic insurer’s voting securities. The application process can be extensive, thereby discouraging the acquisition of a control position. Our certificate of incorporation or by-laws also contain provisions that permit the Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock, prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on the Board, prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders and from taking action by written consent and impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings. 25 Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks General economic, financial market and political conditions and conditions in the markets in which we operate may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Limited availability of credit, deteriorations of the global mortgage and real estate markets, declines in consumer confidence and consumer spending, increases in prices or in the rate of inflation, periods of high unemployment, persistently low or rapidly increasing interest rates, disruptive geopolitical events and other events outside of our control, such as a major epidemic or a pandemic or political or civil unrest, could contribute to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets, including the market for our stock. These conditions could adversely affect all of our business segments. Specifically, during periods of economic downturn: • individuals and businesses may (i) choose not to purchase our insurance products, warranties and other products and services, (ii) terminate existing policies or contracts or permit them to lapse and (iii) choose to reduce the amount of coverage they purchase; • conditions in the markets in which we operate may deteriorate, impacting, among other things, consumer demand for the mobile devices, electronics, appliances, automobiles, housing and other products we insure, including the rate of introduction and success of new products, technologies and promotional programs that provide opportunities for growth; • clients are more likely to underperform expectations, experience financial distress and declare bankruptcy, which could have an adverse impact on the remittance of premiums from such clients and the collection of receivables from such clients for items such as unearned premiums and could otherwise expose us to credit risk; • claims on certain specialized insurance products tend to rise; • there is a higher loss ratio on credit card and installment loan insurance due to rising unemployment; • there is an increased risk of fraudulent insurance claims; and • there may be substantial decreases in loan availability and origination, which may reduce the demand for credit insurance that we write or debt cancellation or debt deferment products that we administer, and on the placement of hazard insurance under our Lender-placed Insurance programs. General inflationary pressures may affect repair and replacement costs on our real and personal property lines, increasing the costs of paying claims. Inflationary pressures may also affect the costs associated with our Global Preneed insurance policies, particularly those that are guaranteed to grow with the CPI. Conversely, deflationary pressures may affect the pricing of our products and services. The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While still evolving, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant global economic and financial market disruption, resulting in increased financial market volatility, business and operational challenges such as the temporary closures of businesses, and diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, our results of operations and financial condition have been adversely affected by lower investment income from lower yields, the current mortgage moratorium that has impacted our REO volumes, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and higher mortality rates in the Global Preneed business. In addition, we have faced, and may continue to face, reduced demand for our products and services, particularly in Latin America, including as a result of client store closures or changes to consumer behavior. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, our results of operations and financial condition may also be adversely affected by: our current offer to, or in some states requirement to, waive late payment fees and allow customers to defer premium payments on certain of our products; clients underperforming expectations or experiencing financial distress; customers experiencing difficulty paying premiums or cancelling coverages; and an increase in the number of fraudulent insurance claims.  In addition, the cost of reinsurance to us increased during the pandemic, and may continue to increase, and reinsurers may experience financial distress.  Furthermore, if the pandemic continues to create disruption in the credit or financial markets, or if it impacts our credit ratings, it could adversely affect our ability to access capital on favorable terms or at all. Our investment portfolio (and, specifically, the valuations and cash flows of investments we hold) has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected as a result of market developments from the COVID-19 pandemic and uncertainty regarding its outcome, including low interest rates, reduced liquidity, and a recession or continued slowdown in the U.S. or in global economic conditions.  The COVID-19 pandemic could result in an impairment in value of our tangible or other intangible assets.  In addition, decreases in observable market activity or the unavailability of information arising from the spread of COVID-19 may restrict our access to key inputs used to derive certain estimates and assumptions made in connection with financial reporting or otherwise, including estimates and changes in long-term macro-economic assumptions relating to 26 accounting for current expected credit losses (commonly referred to as “CECL”).  Restricted access to such inputs may make our financial statement balances and estimates and assumptions subject to greater variability and subjectivity. From an operational perspective, our employees, our clients and their customers, and vendors and other third parties with whom we work, have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to mitigate its spread.  Currently, the vast majority of our global workforce is working remotely, which increases cybersecurity risk and may adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting.  In addition, we have invested a significant amount of time and resources across the enterprise to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business.  We also face the risk that some of our facilities may close for periods of time or that significant portions of our workforce, including key personnel, may be unable to work effectively or at all because of illness and measures put in place to safeguard employee safety, such as additional leave.  An extended period of such conditions could strain our business continuity plans and introduce additional operational risk, including cybersecurity and fraud risks.  Measures we take may also subject us to litigation. We continue to closely monitor developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic to assess its ongoing impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  At this time, it is not possible to estimate how long it will take to halt the spread of the virus or the long-term effects that the COVID-19 pandemic could have on the economy or our business.  The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations or financial condition will depend on future developments which are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, and the actions taken by government authorities and other third parties to contain or address its impact.  We also cannot predict how legal and regulatory responses to concerns about the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health issues will impact our business, including the possibility of a mandated extension of business interruption or other insurance coverage beyond our policy language, or additional regulatory restrictions on our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends.  Even after the COVID-19 outbreak has subsided, we may experience materially adverse impacts to our business, results of operations or financial condition as a result of the pandemic’s global economic impact. For additional information on risks we face relating to epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19, see “ – General economic, financial market and political conditions and conditions in the markets in which we operate may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, ” “ – Business, Strategic and Operational Risks – Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a business continuity event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations ” and “ – Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks – We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. ” Catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses, including as a result of climate change, could materially reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our insurance operations expose us to claims arising from catastrophes and non-catastrophes, particularly in our homeowners insurance businesses. Catastrophes include reportable catastrophe losses, which are individual catastrophe events that generated losses in excess of $5.0 million, pre-tax and net of reinsurance. Non-catastrophe losses include losses from weather, fire, water damage, theft and vandalism, as well as general liability in commercial liability, renters and car-sharing insurance policies, among others. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses that materially reduce our profitability or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Catastrophes can be man-made, including terrorist attacks and accidents, or can be caused by various natural events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hailstorms, floods, severe winter weather, fires, epidemics and pandemics. Natural catastrophe trends are changing due to climate change, a phenomenon linked to increasing atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases, resulting in rising global temperatures and changes in weather patterns. While the exact impact of the physical effects of climate change is uncertain, changes in the global climate may cause long-term increases in the frequency and severity of weather events, such as wildfires and hurricanes, particularly in coastal areas. Climate change has the potential to impact nearly all sectors of the economy to varying degrees and may result in increased claims and higher catastrophe losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We also cannot predict how legal, regulatory and social responses to concerns around climate change may impact our business. While the frequency and severity of both man-made and natural catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property, the geographic concentration of insured lives and the effects of inflation could increase the frequency and severity of claims from future catastrophes. In addition, legislative and regulatory initiatives and court decisions following major catastrophes could force expansion of certain insurance coverages for catastrophe claims or otherwise adversely impact our business. Catastrophe losses can vary widely and could significantly exceed our expectations. We use catastrophe modeling tools that help estimate our probable losses, but these projections are based on historical data and other assumptions, including with 27 respect to climate change and seasonal weather variations, that may differ materially from actual events. These modeling tools may not be able to anticipate emerging trends or changing marketplace conditions. We purchase reinsurance for certain risks, but if the severity of an event were sufficiently high, our losses could exceed our reinsurance coverage limits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “ – Financial Risks – Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers .” In addition, claims from catastrophe events could result in substantial volatility in our results of operations and financial condition for any particular fiscal quarter or year. Accounting rules do not permit insurers to reserve for catastrophe events before they occur. Once a catastrophe event occurs, the establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain and complex process. The ultimate cost of losses may vary materially from recorded reserves and such variance may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital. Because Global Housing’s lender-placed homeowners and lender-placed manufactured housing insurance products are designed to automatically provide property coverage for client portfolios, our exposure to certain catastrophe-prone locations, such as Florida, California, Texas, New York and Puerto Rico, may increase. The withdrawal of other insurers from these or other states may lead to adverse selection and increased use of our products in these areas and may negatively affect our loss experience. In addition, with respect to our Global Preneed insurance policies, the average age of our policyholders was approximately 73 years as of December 31, 2020. Elderly individuals are generally more susceptible to certain epidemics and pandemics than the overall population, and an epidemic or pandemic resulting in a higher incidence of mortality could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Financial Risks Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, requiring us to establish additional reserves or to incur additional expense for settling unreserved liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate exposure for claims and claim adjustment expenses with respect to reported claims and incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) claims as of the end of each accounting period. Whether calculated under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), Statutory Accounting Principles or accounting principles applicable in foreign jurisdictions, reserves are estimates. Reserving is inherently a matter of judgment and our ultimate liabilities could exceed reserves for a variety of reasons, including changes in macroeconomic factors (such as unemployment and interest rates), case development and other factors. From time to time, we also adjust our reserves, and may adjust our reserving methodology, as these factors, our claims experience and estimates of future trends in claims frequency and severity change. Reserve development, changes in our reserving methodology and paid losses exceeding corresponding reserves could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital. See “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates – Reserves” in this Report for additional detail on our reserves. We may be unable to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs, which could reduce our profitability. Our profitability could be reduced if we are unable to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs, including the frequency and severity of property and other claims. This ability could be affected by various factors, including inflation, changes in the regulatory environment, changes in industry practices, changes in legal, social or environmental conditions or new technologies. Political or economic conditions can also affect the availability of programs on which our business may rely to accurately predict claims and other costs. In addition, modeling tools that support business decisions involve historical data and numerous assumptions that may differ materially from actual events. The inability to accurately predict and price for claims and other costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A decline in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Ratings are important considerations in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best rates most of our domestic and significant international operating insurance subsidiaries. Moody’s rates four of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries and S&P rates five of our domestic operating insurance subsidiaries. These ratings are subject to periodic review by A.M. Best, Moody’s and S&P, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain them. Rating agencies may change their methodology or requirements for determining ratings, or they may become more conservative in assigning ratings. Rating agencies could also increase capital requirements for our subsidiaries, thereby reducing deployable capital at such subsidiary or at the holding company. Any reduction in these ratings could materially adversely affect our standing in the 28 insurance industry and the demand for our products from intermediaries and consumers, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2020, our operations had a significant number of contracts that contain provisions that require the applicable subsidiaries to maintain minimum financial strength ratings, typically from A.M. Best, ranging from “A” or better to “B+” or better, depending on the contract. Our clients may terminate these contracts or fail to renew them if the subsidiaries’ ratings fall below these minimums. Termination of or failure to renew these agreements could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A credit rating agency downgrade of our corporate senior debt rating could adversely impact on our business. Currently, Assurant, Inc.’s senior debt is rated BBB by S&P and Baa3 by Moody’s, and both ratings carry a stable outlook. If our senior debt credit ratings were downgraded below investment grade, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and perceptions of our financial strength, could be adversely affected. A downgrade could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to access liquidity quickly, increase our borrowing costs, decrease demand for our debt securities, and increase the expense and difficulty of financing our operations or refinancing our existing indebtedness on similar or more favorable terms. For example, the interest rate payable on each of the 2023 Senior Notes, the 2028 Senior Notes and the 2030 Senior Notes (each as defined hereafter) is subject to increase if either of S&P or Moody’s downgrades the credit rating assigned to such series of senior notes to BB+ or below or to Ba1 or below, respectively. Additionally, we could be subject to more restrictive financial and operational covenants in any indebtedness we issue in the future, which could reduce our operational flexibility. There can be no assurance that our credit ratings will not be downgraded. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for additional information on the 2023 Senior Notes, the 2028 Senior Notes and the 2030 Senior Notes, and the impact of rating changes. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. While most of our costs and revenues are in U.S. Dollars, some are in other currencies. Because our financial results in certain countries are translated from local currency into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation, our results of operations have been and may continue to be affected by foreign exchange rate fluctuations. To a large extent, we do not currently hedge foreign currency risk. If the U.S. Dollar weakens against a local currency, the translation of our foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net revenue, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, our net assets, net revenue, operating expenses and net income will decrease if the U.S. Dollar strengthens against a local currency. These fluctuations in currency exchange rates may result in losses that materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we may incur foreign exchange losses in connection with the designation of the U.S. Dollar as the functional currency of our international subsidiaries. For example, management has classified Argentina’s economy as highly inflationary in accordance with GAAP accounting requirements and, as a result, the functional currency of our Argentina subsidiaries was changed from the local currency to U.S. Dollars and their non-U.S. Dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities were subject to remeasurement resulting in losses. We could incur additional losses, which would adversely affect our results of operations. For additional information on the change in functional currency for our Argentina subsidiaries and the effect thereof, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. An impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations and book value. As a result of acquisitions, we have added a considerable amount of goodwill and other intangible assets to our balance sheet. Goodwill represented 43% of our total equity as of December 31, 2020. We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company-specific factors or the broader business climate. In addition, other intangible assets collectively represented 12% of our total equity as of December 31, 2020. Estimated useful lives of finite intangible assets are reassessed on an annual basis. Generally, other intangible assets with finite lives are only tested for impairment if there are indicators of impairment identified, including a significant adverse change in the extent, manner or length of time in which the other intangible asset is being used or a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the other intangible asset. During the third quarter of 2020, we recognized an impairment of the entire goodwill of $137.8 million related to Global Preneed in connection with our decision to explore strategic alternatives for the Global Preneed business, including a possible sale. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, or significant reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets, could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and book value. For more information on our annual goodwill impairment testing, the goodwill of our segments and related reporting units and intangible asset impairment testing, see 29 “Item 7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates – Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill” and Notes 2 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we are required to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. While management has certified that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020, because internal control over financial reporting is complex, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future. We also rely on manual processes and procedures that subject us to increased risk of error and internal control failure compared to automated processes. Although we are in the process of implementing an integrated global financial system to, among other things, minimize our reliance on and use of manual processes, there can be no assurance that the implementation will be completed in a timely manner, or that it will achieve all of its intended goals. Any failure to implement required controls, or difficulties or errors encountered in their operation, could adversely affect our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, which could deteriorate investor confidence. If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm would be unable to certify the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or opine that our financial statements fairly present, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in conformity with GAAP. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting may also prevent us from reporting our financial information on a timely basis or cause us to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to litigation and adverse regulatory consequences, including fines and other sanctions. If any of the foregoing were to occur, investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements could erode, resulting in a decline in our stock price, impairing our ability to raise capital, negatively affecting our reputation and subjecting us to legal and regulatory risk. Unfavorable conditions in the capital and credit markets may significantly and adversely affect our access to capital and our ability to pay our debts or expenses. The global capital and credit markets have experienced periods of uncertainty, volatility and disruption, including due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, changes to U.S. and foreign tax and trade policies, imposition of new or increased tariffs, other trade restrictions, other government actions, foreign currency fluctuations and other factors. Our ability to raise money during such periods could be severely or entirely restricted. Our ability to borrow or raise money is important if our operating cash flow is insufficient to pay our expenses, meet capital requirements, repay debt, pay dividends on our common and preferred stock or make investments. As a holding company, we have limited direct operations of our own. The principal sources of our liquidity are dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, cash flow from our investment portfolio, the Credit Facility (as defined below) and liquid assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. Sources of liquidity in normal markets also include a variety of short-and long-term instruments. If our access to the capital and credit markets is restricted, our cost of capital could increase, thus decreasing our profitability and reducing our financial flexibility, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar or more favorable terms. Our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially and adversely affected by periods of uncertainty, volatility and disruption in the capital or credit markets. Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk, including changes in interest rates, that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Investment returns are an important part of our profitability. Our investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, including in the fixed maturity and equity securities markets, which could impair our profitability, financial condition and cash flows. Further, in pricing our products and services, we incorporate assumptions regarding returns on our investments. Market conditions may not allow us to invest in assets with sufficiently high returns to meet our pricing assumptions and profit targets over the long term. We are subject to interest rate risk in our investment portfolio. Changes in interest rates may materially adversely affect the performance of some of our investments, including by materially reducing the fair value of and investment income from fixed maturity securities and increasing unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2020, fixed maturity securities represented approximately 85% of the fair value of our total investments and full year 2020 gross investment income from fixed maturity securities totaled $481.8 million. The fair market value of fixed maturity securities generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while investment income from fixed maturity securities increases or decreases directly with interest rates. In addition, actual investment income and cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, may differ from those anticipated at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. Recent periods have been characterized by low interest rates. A prolonged period during which interest rates remain at historically low levels, including the current period of low rates as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, may result in lower-than-expected investment income and larger required reserves. Though we employ 30 asset/liability management strategies to manage the adverse effects of interest rate changes, significant fluctuations in the level of interest rates may require us to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to pay claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk” in this Report. In addition, extended periods of declining interest rates or rising inflation may cause compression in the spread between the death benefit growth rates on our Preneed insurance policies and the investment income that we can earn, resulting in a negative spread, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our overall financial condition. See “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Inflation Risk” in this Report. Our investment portfolio is subject to credit, liquidity and other risks that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to credit risk in our investment portfolio, primarily from our investments in corporate bonds, preferred stocks, leveraged loans, municipal bonds and commercial mortgages. Defaults by third parties in the payment or performance of their obligations could reduce our investment income or result in realized investment losses. The value of our investments may be materially adversely affected by downgrades in the corporate bonds included in our portfolio, increases in treasury rates or credit spreads and by other factors that may result in realized and unrealized investment losses and other-than-temporary impairments. The determination that a security has incurred an other-than-temporary impairment requires the judgment of management and there are inherent risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in facts, circumstances or critical assumptions could cause management to conclude that further impairments have occurred, which could lead to additional losses on investments. Each of these events may cause us to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio. For further details on net investment losses and other-than-temporary-impairments, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. The value of any particular fixed maturity security is subject to impairment based on the creditworthiness of its issuer. As of December 31, 2020, fixed maturity securities represented approximately 85% and below investment grade securities (rated “BB” or lower by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations) represented approximately 4% of the fair value of our total investments. Below investment grade securities generally are expected to provide higher returns but present greater risk and can be less liquid than investment grade securities. A significant increase in defaults and impairments on our fixed maturity securities portfolio could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Credit Risk” in this Report for additional information on the composition of our fixed maturity securities portfolio. Equity securities represented approximately 3% of the fair value of our total investments as of December 31, 2020. However, we have had higher percentages of equity securities in the past and may make more equity investments in the future. Investments in equity securities generally are expected to provide higher total returns but present greater risk to preservation of capital than our fixed maturity securities. All changes in the fair value of equity securities are reported in our statements of operations, which has increased the volatility of our financial results. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. Our investments in commercial mortgage loans on real estate (which represented approximately 5% of the fair value of our total investments as of December 31, 2020) are relatively illiquid. If we require extremely large amounts of cash on short notice, we may have difficulty selling these investments at attractive prices and in a timely manner. The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In accordance with applicable income tax guidance, we must determine whether our ability to realize the value of our deferred tax asset or to recognize certain tax liabilities related to uncertain tax positions is “more likely than not.” Under current income tax guidance, a deferred tax asset should be reduced by a valuation allowance, or a liability related to uncertain tax positions should be accrued, if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carryback or carry-forward periods. In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, management made certain judgments relating to recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carry-forwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions in making these judgments are updated periodically on the basis of current business conditions affecting us and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change due to factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in our ability to realize sufficient taxable income of the same character in the same jurisdiction or in our ability to execute other tax planning strategies. Furthermore, any future changes in tax laws could impact the value of our deferred tax assets. Management will continue to assess and determine the need for, and the amount of, 31 the valuation allowance in subsequent periods. Any change in the valuation allowance could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various operating segments. Although reinsurers are liable to us for claims properly ceded under our reinsurance arrangements, we remain liable to the insured as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Ceded reinsurance arrangements therefore do not eliminate our obligation to pay claims. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. The inability to collect amounts due from reinsurers could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing reinsurance market conditions, which have been, and in the future may continue to be, impacted by the occurrence of significant reinsured events, including catastrophes. In the future, we may not be able to obtain reinsurance coverage for some of our businesses at commercially reasonable rates or at all. In such a situation, we might also be adversely affected by state and other regulations that prohibit us from excluding catastrophe exposures or from withdrawing from or increasing premium rates in catastrophe-prone areas.  In addition, we may not be able to renew our current reinsurance facilities or obtain other reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. Inability to obtain reinsurance at favorable rates or at all could cause us to reduce the level of our underwriting commitments, take more risk, or incur higher costs. Any of these developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Through reinsurance, we have sold or exited businesses that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the reinsurers become insolvent. In the past, we have sold, and in the future we may sell, businesses through reinsurance ceded to third parties. We have also exited certain businesses through reinsurance. For example, we have sold our Long-Term Care division, the insurance operations of our Fortis Financial Group division, including individual life operations and annuity business, and our Assurant Employee Benefits segment. The reinsurance recoverable relating to these dispositions was $4.42 billion as of December 31, 2020. The four reinsurers with the largest reinsurance recoverable balances relating to these dispositions were Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (“Sun Life”), John Hancock Life Insurance Company (“John Hancock”), Talcott Resolution Life and Annuity Insurance Company (“Talcott Resolution”) and Employers Reassurance Corporation (“ERAC”). The A.M. Best ratings of Sun Life, John Hancock and Talcott Resolution are currently A+, A+ and B++, respectively.  A.M. Best withdrew its rating for ERAC in 2019.  Most of the assets backing reserves reinsured under these and other sales are held in trusts or separate accounts. However, if the reinsurers became insolvent, the assets in the trusts or separate accounts could prove insufficient to support the liabilities that would revert to us. In addition, there are currently no assets or other collateral backing reserves relating to the reinsurance recoverable from ERAC. We also face the risk of again becoming responsible for administering these businesses in the event of reinsurer insolvency. We do not currently have the administrative systems and capabilities to process these businesses. Accordingly, we would need to obtain those capabilities in the event of an insolvency of one or more of the reinsurers. We might be forced to obtain such capabilities on unfavorable terms with a resulting material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, other third parties to whom we have sold businesses in the past may in turn sell these businesses to other third parties, through reinsurance or otherwise, and we could face credit risks and risks related to the new administrative systems and capabilities of these third parties in administering these businesses. For more information on these arrangements, including the reinsurance recoverables and risk mitigation mechanisms used, see “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks – Credit Risk” in this Report. Due to the structure of our commission program, we are exposed to risks related to the creditworthiness and reporting systems of some of our agents, third-party administrators and clients. We are subject to the credit risk of some of the agents, third-party administrators and clients with which we contract in our businesses. In addition, some of our agents, third-party administrators and clients collect and report premiums or pay claims on our behalf. These parties’ failure to remit all premiums collected or to pay claims on our behalf on a timely and accurate basis could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 32 Our subsidiaries’ inability to pay us sufficient dividends could prevent us from meeting our obligations and paying future stockholder dividends. As a holding company whose principal assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we rely primarily on dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt obligations, to repurchase shares or debt, to pay for certain operating expenses, to acquire new businesses, and to pay dividends to common and preferred stockholders and corporate expenses. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and to make such other payments depends on their GAAP equity or statutory surplus, future earnings, cash position, rating agency requirements and regulatory restrictions, as applicable. Regulators could also increase capital requirements for our subsidiaries, thereby reducing deployable capital at such subsidiary. Except to the extent that we are a creditor with recognized claims against our subsidiaries, claims of our subsidiaries’ creditors, including policyholders, have priority over our claims with respect to our subsidiaries’ assets and earnings. If any of our subsidiaries should become insolvent, liquidate or otherwise reorganize, our creditors and stockholders will have no right to proceed against our subsidiaries’ assets or to cause the liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up of our subsidiaries under applicable liquidation, bankruptcy or winding-up laws. The applicable insurance laws of the jurisdiction where each of our insurance subsidiaries is domiciled would govern any proceedings relating to that subsidiary and the insurance authority of that jurisdiction would act as a liquidator or rehabilitator for the subsidiary. The payment of dividends by any of our regulated domestic insurance company subsidiaries in excess of specified amounts (i.e., extraordinary dividends) must be approved by the subsidiary’s domiciliary jurisdiction department of insurance. Ordinary dividends, for which no regulatory approval is generally required, are limited to amounts determined by a formula, which varies by jurisdiction. The formula for the majority of the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries are domiciled is based on the prior year’s statutory net income or 10% of the statutory surplus as of the end of the prior year. Some jurisdictions have an additional stipulation that dividends may only be paid out of earned surplus. If insurance regulators determine that payment of an ordinary dividend or any other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as payments under a tax sharing agreement or payments for employee or other services) would be adverse to policyholders or creditors, they may block such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. Future regulatory actions could further restrict our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends. For more information on the maximum amount of dividends our regulated U.S. domiciled insurance subsidiaries could pay us in 2020 under applicable laws and regulations, without prior regulatory approval, see “Item 5 – Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – Dividend Policy.” Any additional material restrictions on our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay us dividends could adversely affect our ability to pay any dividends on our common and preferred stock, service our debt and pay other corporate expenses. Our ability to declare and pay dividends on our capital stock or repurchase shares may be limited. Our declaration and payment of dividends on our common and preferred stock in the future will be determined by the Board in its sole discretion and will depend various factors, including: our subsidiaries’ payment of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial condition and capital requirements; general business conditions and growth prospects; any legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and any other factor the Board deems relevant. The payment of dividends on our common stock is subject to the preferential rights of our 6.50% Series D Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, par value of $1.00 per share (the “MCPS”), and other preferred stock that the Board may create from time to time. The Credit Facility also contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders if we are in default, or such dividend payments would cause us to be in default, of our obligations thereunder. In addition, if we defer the payment of interest on our Subordinated Notes (as defined hereafter), we generally may not make payments on our capital stock. Furthermore, the agreements governing any of our or our subsidiaries’ future indebtedness may limit our ability to declare and pay dividends on our common and preferred stock. In the event that any agreements governing any such indebtedness restrict our ability to declare and pay dividends in cash on our common and preferred stock, we may be unable to declare and pay dividends in cash on our common or preferred stock unless we can repay or refinance the amounts outstanding under such agreements. No common stock may be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the MCPS for all preceding dividend periods have been declared and paid in full, subject to certain limited exceptions. In addition, at any time when we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Notes, we generally may not repurchase any shares of our capital stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. Technology, Cybersecurity and Privacy Risks The failure to effectively maintain and modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure and integrate those of acquired businesses could adversely affect our business. 33 The success of our business depends on our ability to maintain effective, secure and reliable information technology systems and infrastructure and to modernize them to support current and new clients and grow in an efficient and cost-effective manner. We are undergoing a multi-year transformation of our information technology systems and infrastructure involving several enterprise-wide technology initiatives, including enhancing existing systems and developing new systems and products, to support our strategy and keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology and evolving industry and regulatory requirements. We are also updating certain operations and financial systems, procedures and controls, retiring certain legacy systems, and migrating our systems and applications to the cloud. However, we currently rely on manual processes and procedures that subject us to increased risk of error and internal control failure compared to automated processes. We must also integrate the systems of acquired businesses effectively so that technology gained through acquisitions meets the required level of security and performance capabilities to avoid additional risk to existing operations. Our ability to modernize our information technology systems and infrastructure requires us to execute large-scale, complex programs and projects, which rely on the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and effective planning and management processes. We may be unable to implement these programs and projects effectively, efficiently or in a timely manner, which could result in poor customer experience, cost overruns, additional expenses, reputational harm, legal and regulatory actions and other adverse consequences. If we are unable to maintain information technology systems, procedures (including technology continuity planning and recovery testing) and controls that function effectively without interruption and securely (including through a failure to replace or update redundant or obsolete hardware, applications or software systems), or to update or integrate our systems, we may not be able to successfully offer our products, grow our business and account for transactions in an appropriate and timely manner and our relationships with clients could be adversely affected. We are also dependent on vendors and other third parties to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed and data capacity. For example, we utilize third-party cloud service providers in connection with certain aspects of our business and operations, and any disruption of, or interference with, our use of such cloud services could adversely impact our business and operations. We have from time to time experienced failures that result in the unavailability of information technology systems upon which our clients rely. Such failures could result in loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For risks relating to the security of our information technology systems and cyber attacks, see “ – We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. ” We could incur significant liability if our information systems or those of third parties are breached or we or third parties otherwise fail to protect the security of data residing on our respective systems, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on the uninterrupted and secure operation of our information technology systems to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. This electronic information includes confidential and other sensitive information, including personal data, that we receive from our customers, vendors and other third parties. In the normal course of business, we also share confidential and other sensitive information with our vendors and other third parties with whom we work. Our information technology systems and safety control systems and those of our vendors and other third parties are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of external threats, including cyber attacks, computer viruses, malware, ransomware and other types of data and systems related events. Our systems are also subject to compromise from internal threats such as improper action by employees and third parties who may have otherwise legitimate access to our systems. Our call centers subject us to additional risk from internal threats due to access to personal information. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic required us to follow a work-from-home model to continue operations, which resulted in the bypassing of certain physical security controls for our employees and the employees of our vendors who have access to personal information. While additional technical controls have been put in place, they may not be sufficient to discover compromises that occur due to the loss of physical controls. Moreover, we face the ongoing challenge of managing access controls in a complex environment. The latency of a compromise is often measured in months but could be years, and we may not be able to detect a compromise in a timely manner. We could experience significant financial and reputational harm if our information systems are breached, sensitive client or Company data are compromised, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time or maliciously made public, or if we fail to make adequate disclosures to the public or law enforcement agencies following any such event. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated. We are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries, including state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers and “hacktivists” (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats or attacks via yet unknown vulnerabilities referred to as zero-day threats. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss or other damage to information technology systems. As the breadth and complexity of the technologies we use continue to grow, 34 including as a result of the use of mobile devices, cloud services, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the Internet, the potential risk of security breaches and cyber attacks also increases. Our data protection measures may not be effective to protect our network and systems from such threats. Should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user or otherwise, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. Certain measures that could increase the security of our systems take significant time and resources to deploy broadly and may not be effective against an attack. Additionally, our policies, procedures and technical safeguards may be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information and other cybersecurity incidents, assess the severity or impact of any such incidents or appropriately respond in a timely manner. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade effective protective measures and other safeguards or adequately respond to a breach could have a material adverse effect on our business. To safeguard against the accidental introduction of security vulnerabilities, we continue to invest in the development of software in accordance with best practices. In addition, our information systems must be continually patched and upgraded to protect against vulnerabilities. As the volume of new software vulnerabilities continues to increase, as has the criticality of patches and other remedial measures. Accordingly, we are at risk that cyber attackers exploit these vulnerabilities before they have been addressed. Due to the large number and age of the systems and platforms that we operate and the increased frequency at which vendors issue security patches to their products, the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we are at risk that we cannot deploy in a timely and effective manner. We are also dependent on vendors and other third parties, such as cloud service providers, to keep their systems patched in order to protect our data. Any failure related to these activities could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have vendors and other third parties who receive data from us in connection with the services we offer our customers. In addition, we have migrated certain data, and may increasingly migrate data, to the cloud hosted by third-party providers. We are at risk of a cyber attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of such third party’s data protection measures or access to our infrastructure through the third party. To the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyber attack that compromises their operations, our data and our customers’ data could be compromised or we may experience possible service interruption, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. For instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses in an acquired entity’s information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber attack. We may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place. We have from time to time experienced cybersecurity incidents, such as malware incursions, distributed denial of service attacks, employee misconduct and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices. Like many companies, we are subject to regular phishing email and social media engineering campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and financial and data losses. Although some of these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In the future, these types of incidents could result in confidential, personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, surreptitiously modified, rendered inaccessible for any period of time, or maliciously made public, including client, employee or Company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Improper access to or disclosure of sensitive client or Company information could harm our reputation and subject us to significant liability under our contracts, as well as under existing or future laws, rules and regulations. In the event of a cyber attack, we might have to take our systems offline, which could interfere with services to our clients or damage our reputation. We also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond and recover any financial and data loss in a timely manner. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to mitigate the damage and to protect against future damage. In addition, our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber attacks and other related data and system incidents. The costs of complying with, or our failure to comply with, U.S. and foreign laws related to privacy, data security and data protection could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and reputation. In providing services and solutions to our customers and operating our business, we process, store and transfer sensitive customer, end-consumer and Company data, including personal data, in and across multiple jurisdictions. As a result, we are or may become subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. These laws and regulations are continuously evolving and developing. For example, since the enactment of GDPR, other countries where we conduct business have or are in the process of enacting stricter data protections laws that model GDPR. At the state level, the NAIC Insurance Data Security Model Law is being enacted in a number of states, imposing an array of detailed security measures on insurance companies and requiring annual attestation of our security program. In 2020, California passed a second comprehensive privacy law that further increases California residents’ privacy rights in a manner 35 similar to GDPR, and established the California Protection Privacy Agenda to regulate and enforce the new privacy law. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time and may restrict the way services involving data are offered, all of which may adversely affect our results of operations. Complying with these and similar laws and regulations also requires us to make significant changes to our operations, which rely on the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and effective planning and management processes. We may be unable to implement required operational changes effectively, efficiently or in a timely manner, which could result in cost overruns, additional expenses, reputational harm, legal and regulatory actions and other adverse consequences. Unauthorized disclosure or transfer of personal or otherwise sensitive data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud, misappropriation or other means, by us, our vendors or other parties with whom we do business could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines, criminal prosecution and other adverse consequences in one or more jurisdictions. Such events could also result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation and cause us to lose clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive laws and regulations, which increase our costs and could restrict the conduct of our business, and violations or alleged violations of such laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the U.S. and its various states and territories, the E.U. and its member states, the U.K. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. We are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, trade sanctions, export control regulations and restrictions and anti-money laundering laws. We are subject to other laws and regulations on matters as diverse as antitrust, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, data privacy and protection, taxation, environmental protection, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations. Furthermore, our domestic and international insurance subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory oversight, including: restrictions and requirements related to licensing; capital, surplus and dividends; underwriting limitations; the ability to enter, exit and continue to operate in markets; statutory accounting and other disclosure requirements; coverage; the ability to provide, terminate or cancel certain coverages; premium rates, including regulatory ability to disapprove or reduce the premium rates companies may charge; trade and claims practices; content of disclosures to consumers; type, amount and valuation of investments; assessments or other surcharges for guaranty funds and companies’ ability to recover assessments through premium increases; and market conduct and sales practices. The U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex and may change rapidly, and our efforts to comply and keep up with them require significant resources and increase the costs and risks of doing business in these jurisdictions. The regulations we are subject to have become more stringent over time, may decrease the need for our services, impose significant operational limits on our business and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions. Further, the laws and regulations affecting our business are subject to change as a result of, among other things, new interpretations and judicial decisions, and any such changes may increase the regulatory requirements imposed on us, impact the way we are able to do business and significantly harm our business and results of operations. While we attempt to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we or our employees, consultants, contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to investigations, criminal penalties, civil remedies or other adverse consequences, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business, redress to clients, exposure to negative publicity or reputational damage and harm to client, employee and other relationships. Moreover, our failure to comply with laws or regulations in one jurisdiction may result in increased regulatory scrutiny by other regulatory agencies in that jurisdiction or regulatory agencies in other jurisdictions. The cost of compliance and the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  For additional discussion of the various laws and regulations affecting our business, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation” in this Report. Changes in tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Federal, state or foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, are subject to significant change and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, on December 22, 2017, the TCJA, which significantly amended the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, was enacted. Compliance with the TCJA may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the Company, the use of estimates in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. The overall impact of the TCJA is uncertain due to the ambiguities in the application of certain provisions of the TCJA, the impact of future guidance, 36 interpretations or rules issued by government agencies in applying the TCJA and potential court decisions interpreting the legislation. Future changes in tax laws, including changes in the application or interpretation of the TCJA, or increases to the corporate tax rate, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s efforts around Global Pillars I and II dealing with possible new digital taxes and global minimum taxes, if enacted, could increase the Company’s overall tax burden, adversely impacting the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to risks related to litigation and regulatory actions. From time to time, we may be subject to a variety of legal and regulatory actions relating to our current and past business operations, including: • industry-wide investigations regarding business practices, including the use and marketing of certain types of insurance policies or certificates of insurance, and compliance with guidance issued by regulators; • actions by regulatory authorities that may restrict our ability to increase or maintain our premium rates, require us to reduce premium rates, require us to allow customers to defer premium payments on certain of our products, make offering our products more expensive or unattractive to our clients, impose fines or penalties, and result in other expenses; • market conduct examinations, for which we are required to pay the expenses of the regulator as well as our own expenses, and which may result in fines, penalties, and other adverse consequences; • disputes regarding our Lender-placed Insurance products, including those relating to rates, agent compensation, consumer disclosure, continuous coverage requirements, loan tracking services and other services that we provide to mortgage servicers; • disputes over coverage or claims adjudication; • disputes over our treatment of claims, in which states or insureds may allege that we failed to make required payments or meet prescribed deadlines for adjudicating claims; • disputes regarding regulatory compliance, sales practices, disclosures, premium refunds, licensing, underwriting and compensation arrangements; • disputes over liability claims under comprehensive general liability policies involving property damage or personal injury at insured properties or relating to insured vehicles; • disputes alleging bundling of credit insurance and warranty products with other products provided by financial institutions; • disputes with tax and insurance authorities regarding our tax liabilities; and • disputes relating to customers’ claims that they were not aware of the full cost or existence of the insurance or limitations on insurance coverage. Further, actions by certain regulators may cause additional changes to the structure of the Lender-placed Insurance industry, including the arrangements under which we track coverage on mortgaged properties. These changes could materially adversely affect the results of operations of Global Housing and the results of operations and financial condition of the Company. For additional information, see “Item 1 – Business – Regulation” in this Report. We are involved in a variety of litigation and legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our current and past business operations and may, from time to time, become involved in other such actions. We continue to defend ourselves vigorously in these proceedings. We participate in settlements on terms that we consider reasonable; however, the results of any pending or future litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently unpredictable and involve significant uncertainty. Unfavorable outcomes in litigation or regulatory proceedings or significant problems in our relationships with regulators could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, reputation, ratings and ability to continue to do business. They could also expose us to further investigations or litigation. In addition, certain of our clients in the mortgage, credit card and banking industries are the subject of various regulatory investigations and litigation matters regarding mortgage lending practices, credit insurance, debt-deferment and debt cancellation products, and the sale of ancillary products, which could indirectly negatively affect our businesses. For additional information, see “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Our business is subject to risks related to reductions in the insurance premium rates we charge. The premiums we charge are subject to review by regulators. If they consider our loss ratios to be too low, they could require us to reduce our rates. Significant rate reductions could materially reduce our profitability. 37 Lender-placed Insurance products accounted for approximately 53% of Global Housing’s net earned premiums, fees and other income for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 55% for the year ended December 31, 2019, respectively. The corresponding contributions to segment net income for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were approximately 31% and 52%, respectively. The portion of segment net income attributable to Lender-placed Insurance products may vary substantially over time depending on the frequency, severity and location of catastrophe losses, the cost of catastrophe reinsurance and reinstatement coverage, the variability of claim processing costs and client acquisition costs, and other factors. In addition, we expect placement rates for these products to decline in 2021 as housing markets continue to improve. We file rates with the state departments of insurance in the ordinary course of business. In addition to this routine correspondence, from time to time we engage in discussions and proceedings with certain state regulators regarding our Lender-placed Insurance business. The results of such reviews may vary. As previously disclosed, we have reached agreements with state insurance regulators in certain states, including New York, Florida, California, Indiana, Texas and Minnesota, regarding our Lender-placed Insurance business in those states. In addition, we completed a regulatory settlement agreement (the “RSA”) to resolve a targeted multistate market conduct examination sponsored by the NAIC and focused on Lender-placed Insurance, which includes a number of requirements and restrictions that are applicable in all participating states and U.S. territories. Among other things, the terms of the RSA require more frequent rate filings for Lender-placed Insurance. This could result in downward pressure on premium rates for these products. If such filings result in significant decreases in premium rates for our Lender-placed Insurance products, our cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in insurance regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Legislation or other regulatory reform related to the insurance industry that increases the regulatory requirements imposed on us or that changes the way we are able to do business may significantly harm our business or results of operations. Various state and federal regulatory authorities have also taken actions with respect to our Lender-placed Insurance business, including the multistate market conduct examination and related RSA. If we were unable for any reason to comply with any new or revised requirements, including the RSA, it could result in substantial costs to us and may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, new interpretations of existing laws or new judicial decisions affecting the insurance industry could adversely affect our business. Insurance industry-related legislative or regulatory changes that could significantly harm our subsidiaries and us include, but are not limited to: • imposed reductions in premium rates, limitations on the ability to raise premiums on existing policies, or new minimum loss ratios; • increases in minimum capital, reserves and other financial viability requirements; • enhanced or new regulatory requirements intended to prevent future financial crises or to otherwise ensure the stability of institutions; • new licensing requirements; • restrictions on the ability to offer certain types of insurance products or service contracts; • prohibitions or limitations on provider financial incentives and provider risk-sharing arrangements; • more stringent standards of review for claims denials or coverage determinations; • increased regulation relating to Lender-placed Insurance; • new or enhanced regulatory requirements that require insurers to pay claims on terms other than those mandated by underlying policy contracts; and • restrictions on the solicitation of insurance consumers by funeral board laws for pre-funded funeral insurance coverage. In addition, regulators in certain states have hired third-party auditors to audit the unclaimed property records of insurance companies operating in those states. Among other companies, we are currently subject to these audits in a number of states and have been responding to information requests from these auditors. Several proposals have been adopted or are currently pending to amend state insurance holding company and other laws that increase the scope of insurance company regulation globally. The NAIC has implemented the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment, which requires U.S. insurers and insurance groups to perform an annual assessment, and Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure reporting, which requires U.S. insurers and insurance groups to report on their governance structure, policies and practices. Regulatory bodies are expected to increase the frequency of discussions between each other and the level of data sharing across borders in order to enable more consistent regulation of global companies. General Risk Factors 38 Our common stock may be subject to stock price and trading volume volatility. Our common stock price and trading volume could materially fluctuate or decrease in response to a number of events and factors, including: quarterly variations in our operating results; catastrophe losses; the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies; changes in our insurance subsidiaries’ financial strength ratings; changes in our corporate debt ratings; changes to our registered securities; limitations on premium levels or the ability to maintain or raise premiums on existing policies; regulatory developments; and negative publicity relating to us or our competitors. In addition, broad market and industry fluctuations, including those as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, may materially and adversely affect the trading price or volume of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Employee misconduct could harm us by subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm. Our ability to attract and retain employees and clients depends upon our corporate culture. Our employees are the cornerstone of our culture and acts of misconduct by any employee, and particularly by senior management, could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation. Our employees could engage or be accused of engaging in misconduct that subjects us to litigation, regulatory sanctions, financial costs and serious harm to our reputation or financial position. Employee misconduct could also prompt regulators to allege or determine, on the basis of such misconduct, that we have not established an adequate program to inform employees of applicable rules or to detect and deter violations of such rules. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent misconduct may not be effective. Misconduct by employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, reputation and business. 39

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Report. It contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this Report, particularly under the headings “Item 1A – Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” General We report our results through four segments: Global Lifestyle, Global Housing, Global Preneed and Corporate and Other. In October 2020, we announced we are exploring strategic alternatives for the Global Preneed business, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the broader Global Lifestyle and Global Housing portfolio. We have since then made progress toward the possible sale of the business; however, there can be no assurance we will complete a sale. Corporate and Other includes activities of the holding company, financing and interest expenses, net realized gains (losses) on investments (which includes unrealized gains (losses) on equity securities and changes in fair value of direct investments in collateralized loan obligations), interest income earned from short-term investments held, income (expenses) primarily related to our frozen benefit plans, amounts related to businesses previously disposed of through reinsurance and the run-off of the Assurant Health business. Corporate and Other also includes goodwill impairments, the foreign currency gains (losses) from remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and other expenses related to merger and acquisition activities, as well as other highly variable or unusual items other than reportable catastrophes (reportable catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and client profit sharing adjustments, and including reinstatement and other premiums). The following discussion covers the year ended December 31, 2020 (“Twelve Months 2020”) and year ended December 31, 2019 (“Twelve Months 2019”). Please see the discussion that follows, for each of these segments, for a more detailed comparative analysis. Our comparative analysis of Twelve Months 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018 is included under the heading “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC on February 19, 2020. Executive Summary COVID-19 As a global organization, we actively monitor the developments of the continuously evolving situation resulting from COVID-19. Throughout this period of uncertainty, we have acted swiftly and deliberately to safeguard our employees, to maintain business operations and service levels for customers, and to support our local communities. See “Item 1 – Business” for additional information. While continuing to evolve, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant global economic and financial market disruption, resulting in increased financial market volatility, business and operational challenges such as the temporary closures of businesses, and overall diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets. Overall, for Twelve Months 2020, we believe COVID-19 had a modest negative impact on our net income, mainly due to lower investment income from lower yields, lower REO volumes, foreign exchange rate fluctuations and higher mortality rates in our Global Preneed business. This was partially offset by lower expenses, more favorable international claims activity and more favorable non-catastrophe loss experience. Throughout this period, we believe our liquidity has remained strong. As of December 31, 2020, we had $407.2 million of holding company liquidity. Our investment portfolio will continue to be impacted by COVID-19 and related financial market volatility. Though we generally believe our portfolio remains well diversified and high-quality, with the majority comprised of investment grade fixed maturity assets, interest rates are expected to remain relatively low for the foreseeable future. Refer to “—Investments” below and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. We ran multiple scenarios based on the potential duration and severity of this crisis to better understand how our business might perform and stress-tested our capital, cash flows and liquidity. Our business performed on the high-end of the scenarios, demonstrating its overall resilience given our installed customer base across Connected Living, Global Automotive, Multifamily Housing and Global Preneed. For a discussion of the material risks relating to COVID-19 on our business, results of operations and financial condition, refer to “Item 1A — Risk Factors — Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks — The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” Overview We have undertaken several acquisitions and dispositions, which are reflected in our results. On December 1, 2020, we acquired HYLA, a leading provider of smartphone software, trade-in and upgrade services, for total consideration of 46 $348.8 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing.  In May 2020, we completed our acquisition of AFAS, a provider of finance and insurance products and services including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection insurance and other ancillary products, for total consideration of $176.9 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing. In May 2020, we sold our minority interests in Iké, terminated our obligations to purchase the remaining shares of Iké, and settled a financial derivative that provided an economic hedge against declines in the Mexican Peso relative to the U.S. Dollar. These transactions resulted in net cash outflows of $85.3 million, which included financing of $34.0 million, the proceeds from the settlement of the derivative and transaction expenses. For additional information on this transaction, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources” below and Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. During the third quarter of 2020, we identified impairment indicators impacting the fair value of Global Preneed in connection with exploring strategic alternatives for the Global Preneed business, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the broader Global Lifestyle and Global Housing portfolio. The fair value calculated in third quarter 2020 was lower than the carrying value of the reporting unit, resulting in the impairment of the entire goodwill of $137.8 million related to the Global Preneed reporting unit. For additional information on the impairment test, refer to “— Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill” below and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Summary of Financial Results Consolidated net income attributable to common stockholders increased $59.2 million, or 16%, to $423.1 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $363.9 million for Twelve Months 2019. The increase was primarily driven by $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from the reduction in fair value of Iké, as well as an $84.4 million one-time tax benefit related to the enactment of the federal CARES Act, which allows the carryback of net operating losses to years taxed at higher rates. The increase was partially offset by the $137.8 million after-tax impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill, as well as a $68.2 million decrease in net realized gains on investments, mostly due to a decline in the fair value of certain collateralized loan obligations and lower net unrealized gains on equity securities. Global Lifestyle segment net income increased $27.9 million, or 7%, to $437.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $409.3 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by Connected Living from growth in mobile subscribers in North America and Asia Pacific, as well as improved extended service contract loss experience. The increase was also due to a $6.7 million after-tax benefit for a client recoverable in Connected Living and $9.2 million of client benefits in Global Automotive. Results were partially offset by lower investment income across all lines of business, unfavorable foreign exchange and declines in Global Financial Services and Other. Global Lifestyle net earned premiums, fees and other income increased $243.4 million, or 3%, to $7.34 billion for the Twelve Months 2020 compared with $7.09 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Excluding the $117.0 million lower revenue impact resulting from the July 1, 2020 transition of one of our mobile trade-in and upgrade programs from our recognition of device sales revenue to a flat fee per device, revenue increased 5%, primarily due to continued growth in Global Automotive and Connected Living. The increase was partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and declines within Global Financial Services and Other. Global Housing segment net income decreased $24.9 million, or 10%, to $233.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $258.7 million for Twelve Months 2019. Segment net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes compared to $40.9 million of reportable catastrophes for Twelve Months 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, segment net income increased $71.4 million, primarily due to more favorable non-catastrophe loss experience across all lines of business, including underwriting improvements in sharing economy offerings. The increase was also driven by higher premium rates in Lender-placed Insurance, which were partially offset by a reduction in REO volumes due to foreclosure moratoriums enacted in connection with COVID-19 and fewer policies-in-force. Lower investment income also contributed to the offset. Global Housing net earned premiums, fees and other income decreased $56.4 million, or 3%, to $1.98 billion for Twelve Months 2020 compared with $2.03 billion for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to the expected run-off of our small commercial business and declines in Lender-placed Insurance policies-in-force from the previously disclosed financially insolvent client, as well as lower REO volumes. The decrease was partially offset by higher premium rates in Lender-placed Insurance and continued growth within Specialty and Other and Multifamily Housing. Global Preneed segment net income decreased $4.2 million, or 8%, to $48.0 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $52.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to higher mortality from COVID-19 and lower investment income. This decrease was partially offset by the absence of a $9.9 million after-tax expense related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period recorded in Twelve Months 2019. 47 Global Preneed net earned premiums, fees and other income increased $8.5 million, or 4%, to $209.4 million for Twelve Months 2020 compared with $200.9 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to growth in domestic pre-funded funeral policies and prior period sales of the Final Need product. Critical Factors Affecting Results Our results depend on, among other things, the appropriateness of our product pricing, underwriting, the accuracy of our reserving methodology for future policyholder benefits and claims, the frequency and severity of reportable and non-reportable catastrophes, returns on and values of invested assets, and our ability to manage our expenses and achieve expense savings. Our results will also depend on our ability to profitably grow all of our businesses, in particular our Connected Living, Multifamily Housing and Global Automotive businesses, and maintain our position in our Lender-placed Insurance business. Factors affecting these items, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto, conditions in financial markets, the global economy and the markets in which we operate, fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For more information on these and other factors that could affect our results, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors.” Our results may also be impacted by our ability to continue to grow in the markets in which we operate, including in our Connected Living, Multifamily Housing and Global Automotive businesses. Our mobile business is subject to volatility in mobile device trade-in volumes based on the actual and anticipated timing of the release of new devices and carrier promotional programs, as well as to changes in consumer preferences. Our Lender-placed Insurance revenues will also be impacted by changes in the housing market. In addition, across many of our businesses, we must respond to the threat of disruption. See “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Business, Strategic and Operational Risks – Significant competitive pressures, changes in customer preferences and disruption could adversely affect our results of operations .” Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our debt and dividends on our common and preferred stock. For Twelve Months 2020, net cash provided by operating activities totaled $1.34 billion; net cash used in investing activities totaled $735.2 million; and net cash used in financing activities totaled $264.8 million. We had $2.23 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020. Please see “ – Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further details. Revenues We generate revenues primarily from the sale of our insurance policies, service contracts and related products and services and from income earned on our investments. Sales of insurance policies are recognized in revenue as earned premiums while sales of administrative services are recognized as fee income. Under the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on preneed life insurance policies sold after January 1, 2009 are presented within fee income net of policyholder benefits. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed policies sold prior to January 1, 2009 is presented separately as net earned premiums, with policyholder benefits expense shown separately. Our premium and fee income is supplemented by income earned from our investment portfolio. We recognize revenue from interest payments, dividends, change in market value of equity securities and sales of investments. Currently, our investment portfolio is primarily invested in fixed maturity securities. Both investment income and realized capital gains on these investments can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rate volatility can increase or reduce unrealized gains or losses in our investment portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed maturity and short-term investments. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. We also have investments that are subject to pre-payment risk, such as mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities. Interest rate fluctuations may cause actual net investment income and/or cash flows from such investments to differ from estimates made at the time of investment. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage obligations and bonds are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Therefore, in these circumstances we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest-earning investments. Expenses 48 Our expenses are primarily policyholder benefits, underwriting, general and administrative expenses and interest expense. Policyholder benefits are affected by our claims management programs, reinsurance coverage, contractual terms and conditions, regulatory requirements, economic conditions, and numerous other factors. Benefits paid or reserves required for future benefits could substantially exceed our expectations, causing a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Underwriting, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, licenses, fees, amortization of deferred costs, general operating expenses and income taxes. We continue to undertake various expense savings initiatives while also making investments in information technology, among other things, which will impact our expenses. We also incur interest expense related to our debt. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Certain items in our Consolidated Financial Statements are based on estimates and judgment. Differences between actual results and these estimates could in some cases have material impacts on our Consolidated Financial Statements. The following critical accounting policies require significant estimates. The actual amounts realized in these areas could ultimately be materially different from the amounts currently provided for in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Reserves Reserves are established using generally accepted actuarial methods and reflect judgments about expected future claim payments. Factors used in their calculation include experience derived from historical claim payments and actuarial assumptions.  Calculations incorporate assumptions about the incidence of incurred claims, the extent to which all claims have been reported, reporting lags, expenses, inflation rates, future investment earnings, internal claims processing costs and other relevant factors. While the methods of making such estimates and establishing the related liabilities are periodically reviewed and updated, the estimation of reserves includes an element of uncertainty given that management is using historical information and methods to project future events and reserve outcomes. The recorded reserves represent our best estimate at a point in time of the ultimate costs of settlement and administration of a claim or group of claims, based upon actuarial assumptions and projections using facts and circumstances known at the time of calculation. The adequacy of reserves may be impacted by future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both external and internal events, including, but not limited to:  changes in the economic cycle, inflation, changes in repair costs, natural or human-made catastrophes, judicial trends, legislative changes and claims handling procedures. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable and not all future events can be anticipated when reserves are established. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently complex process involving significant judgment and estimates, there can be no certainty that future settlement amounts for claims incurred through the financial reporting date will not vary from reported claims reserves. Future loss development could require reserves to be increased or decreased, which could have a material effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases or decreases are made. However, based on information currently available, we believe our reserve estimates are adequate.  See “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – Our actual claims losses may exceed our reserves for claims, requiring us to establish additional reserves or to incur additional expense for settling unreserved liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, profitability and capital ” for more detail on this risk. For additional information regarding our reserves, see Notes 2 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Short Duration Contracts Claims and benefits payable reserves for short duration contracts include (1) case reserves for known claims which are unpaid as of the balance sheet date; (2) IBNR reserves for claims where the insured event has occurred but has not been reported to us as of the balance sheet date; and (3) loss adjustment expense reserves for the expected handling costs of settling the claims. Periodically, we review emerging experience and make adjustments to our reserves and assumptions where necessary. Below are further discussions on the reserving process for our major short duration products. Global Lifestyle and Global Housing 49 Ultimate loss and loss adjustment expenses are estimated utilizing generally accepted actuarial loss reserving methods. Both paid claims development as well as case incurred development are typically analyzed at the product or product grouping level, considering product size and data credibility. The reserving methods widely employed by us include the Chain Ladder, Munich Chain Ladder and Bornhuetter-Ferguson methods. For Global Housing, reportable catastrophes are analyzed and reserved for separately using a frequency and severity approach. The methods all involve aggregating paid and case-incurred loss data by accident quarter (or accident year) and accident age for each product grouping. As the data ages, development factors are calculated that measure emerging claim development patterns between reporting periods. By selecting loss development factors indicative of remaining development, known losses are projected to an ultimate incurred basis for each accident period. The underlying premise of the Chain Ladder method is that future claims development is best estimated using past claims development, whereas the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method employs a combination of past claims development and prior estimates of ultimate losses based on an expected loss ratio. The Munich Chain Ladder method incorporates the correlations between paid and incurred development in projecting future development factors, and is typically more applicable to products experiencing variability in incurred to paid ratios. Each of these methods applied to the data groupings produces an estimate of the loss reserves for the product grouping. The best estimate is generally selected from a blend of the different methods. The IBNR associated with the best estimate is then allocated to accident year based on a weighting of the underlying actuarial methods. The determination of the best estimate is based on many factors, including but not limited to: • the nature and extent of the underlying assumptions; • the quality and applicability of historical data - whether internal or industry data; • current and expected future economic and market conditions; • regulatory, legislative, and judicial considerations; • the extent of data segmentation - data should be homogeneous yet credible enough for loss development methods to apply; • trends in loss frequencies and severities for various causes of loss; • consideration of the distribution of loss reserves, management’s selection of the best estimate that may exceed an estimate based on median values, suggesting that favorable development may be more likely than unfavorable development; and • hindsight testing of prior loss estimates - the loss estimates on some product lines will vary from actual loss experience more than others. When employing the reserving methods, consideration is given to contractual requirements, historical utilization trends and payment patterns, coverage changes, seasonality, product mix, the legislative and regulatory environment, economic factors, natural catastrophes and other relevant factors. We consistently apply reserving principles and methodologies from year to year, while also giving due consideration to the potential variability of these factors. While management has used judgment in establishing its best estimate of required reserves, different assumptions and variables could lead to significantly different reserve estimates. Two key measures of loss activity are loss frequency, which is a measure of the number of claims per unit of insured exposure, and loss severity, which is a measure of the average size of claims. Factors affecting loss frequency include the effectiveness of loss controls, changes in economic activity and weather patterns. Factors affecting loss severity include changes in policy limits, retentions, rate of inflation and judicial interpretations. If the actual level of loss frequency and severity are higher or lower than expected, the ultimate reserves required will be different than management’s estimate. The effect of higher and lower levels of loss frequency and severity on our ultimate costs for claims occurring in 2020 would be as follows: (1) Represents the sum of the case reserves and incurred but not reported reserves as of December 31, 2020 for Global Lifestyle and Global Housing. 50 Disposed and Runoff Short Duration Lines We have exposure to asbestos, environmental and other general liability claims arising from our participation in various reinsurance pools from 1971 through 1985. This exposure arose from a contract that we discontinued writing many years ago. We carried case reserves for these liabilities, as recommended by the various pool managers, and IBNR reserves totaling $22.1 million (before reinsurance) and $19.1 million (net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2020. Estimation of these liabilities is subject to greater than normal variation and uncertainty due to the general lack of sufficiently detailed data, reporting delays and absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for determining the exposures. There are significant unresolved industry legal issues, including such items as whether coverage exists and what constitutes an occurrence. In addition, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of losses to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain. Based on information currently available, and after consideration of the reserves reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements, we do not believe or expect that changes in reserve estimates for these claims are likely to be material. Long Duration Contracts Reserves for future policy benefits represent the present value of future benefits to policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums. Reserve assumptions reflect best estimates for expected investment yield, inflation, mortality, morbidity, expenses and withdrawal rates. These assumptions are based on our experience to the extent it is credible, modified where appropriate to reflect current trends, industry experience and provisions for possible unfavorable deviation. We also record an unearned revenue reserve which represents premiums received which have not yet been recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. Historically, premium deficiency testing on continuing lines of business has not resulted in material adjustments to deferred acquisition costs or reserves. Such adjustments could occur, however, if economic or mortality conditions significantly deteriorated. Global Preneed Global Preneed includes pre-funded funeral (“preneed”) life insurance and annuity contracts and legacy traditional life insurance (no longer offered). The reserve assumptions for future policy benefits and expenses are determined based upon pricing, which approximates actual experience. For preneed life insurance issued after 2008 with discretionary death benefit growth, the universal life-type accounting model is applied whereby reserve assumptions are made without provision for adverse deviation.  Interest and discount rates are based upon investment returns of the assets acquired to support the business.  Expected mortality rates, lapse rates, and future death benefit increases are based upon pricing assumptions. For preneed life insurance issued after 2008 with either no death benefit growth or death benefit growth linked to an inflation index, the long-duration accounting model is applied whereby reserve assumptions are made with provision for adverse deviation.  Interest and discount rates are based upon investment returns of the assets acquired to support the business.  Expected mortality rates and lapse rates are based upon pricing assumptions.  For contracts with minimum benefit increases associated with an inflation index, the reserves assume expected benefit increases equal to a selected discount rate less a spread. For preneed life insurance issued prior to 2009, the long-duration accounting model is applied whereby reserve assumptions are made with provision for adverse deviation.  Interest and discount rates are based upon investment returns of the assets acquired to support the business.  Expected mortality rates, lapse rates and future death benefit increases are based upon pricing assumptions. Annuity contracts have reserve assumptions made without provision for adverse deviation.  Assumed discount rates and interest rates credited on deferred annuities vary by year of issue.  Withdrawal charge assumptions are based upon contract provisions.  Nearly all of the deferred annuity contracts have a minimum guaranteed interest rate. For life insurance and annuity contracts acquired in 2000 and prior, interest and discount rates as well as mortality assumptions are based on statutory valuation requirements, which approximate the GAAP valuation requirements, with no explicit provision for lapses. Disposed and Runoff Long Duration Lines Risks related to the reserves recorded for certain discontinued individual life, annuity and long-term care insurance policies have been fully ceded via reinsurance. While we have not been released from our contractual obligation to the policyholders, changes in and deviations from economic, mortality, morbidity, and withdrawal assumptions used in the calculation of these reserves will not directly affect our results of operations unless there is a default by the assuming reinsurer. 51 Deferred Acquisition Costs (“DAC”) and Value of Business Acquired (“VOBA”) Only direct incremental costs associated with the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts are deferred to the extent that such costs are deemed recoverable from future premiums or gross profits. Acquisition costs primarily consist of commissions and premium taxes.  Certain direct response advertising expenses are deferred when the primary purpose of the advertising is to elicit sales to customers who can be shown to have specifically responded to the advertising and the direct response advertising results in probable future benefits. Premium deficiency testing is performed annually and generally reviewed quarterly. Such testing involves the use of best estimate assumptions including the anticipation of investment income to determine if anticipated future policy premiums are adequate to recover all DAC and related claims, benefits and expenses. To the extent a premium deficiency exists, it is recognized immediately by a charge to the consolidated statement of operations and a corresponding reduction in DAC. If the premium deficiency is greater than unamortized DAC, a loss (and related liability) is recorded for the excess deficiency. Long Duration Contracts Acquisition costs for pre-funded funeral life insurance policies issued prior to 2009 and certain life insurance policies no longer offered are deferred and amortized in proportion to anticipated premiums over the premium-paying period. These acquisition costs consist primarily of first year commissions paid to agents. For preneed investment-type annuities, preneed life insurance policies with discretionary death benefit growth issued after January 1, 2009, universal life insurance policies and investment-type annuities no longer offered, DAC is amortized in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits from investment, mortality, expense margins and surrender charges over the estimated life of the policy or contract. Estimated gross profits include the impact of unrealized gains or losses on investments as if these gains or losses had been realized, with corresponding credits or charges included in AOCI. The assumptions used for the estimates are consistent with those used in computing the policy or contract liabilities. Short Duration Contracts Acquisition costs relating to extended service contracts, vehicle service contracts, mobile device protection, credit insurance, lender-placed homeowners insurance and flood, multifamily housing and manufactured housing are amortized over the term of the contracts in relation to premiums earned. These acquisition costs consist primarily of advance commissions paid to agents. Acquisition costs relating to disposed lines of business (group term life, group disability, group dental and group vision) consist primarily of compensation to sales representatives. Such costs are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts. VOBA As part of the acquisition of businesses that sell long-term extended service contracts, such as warranty contracts sold by TWG, and long-duration insurance contracts, such as life products, we establish an intangible asset related to VOBA, which represents the fair value of the expected future profits in unearned premium for insurance contracts acquired. For vehicle service contracts and extended service contracts such as those purchased in connection with the TWG acquisition, the amount is determined using estimates, for premium earnings patterns, paid loss development patterns, expense loads, and discount rates applied to cash flows that include a provision for credit risk. For vehicle service contracts and extended service contracts, VOBA is amortized consistent with the premium earning patterns of the underlying in-force contracts. For limited payment policies, preneed life insurance policies, universal life policies and annuities, the valuation of VOBA at the time of acquisition is derived from similar assumptions to those used to establish the associated claim or benefit reserves and is amortized over the expected life of the policies. Investments For available for sale fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position for which we do not intend to sell or for which it is more likely than not that we would not be required to sell before an anticipated recovery in value, we evaluate whether the decline in fair value has resulted from credit losses or other factors. In making this assessment, we consider the extent to which fair value is less than amortized cost basis, changes to the credit rating of the security by a nationally recognized statistical ratings organization and any adverse conditions specifically related to the security, industry or geographic area, among other factors. If this assessment indicates a potential credit loss may exist, the present value of cash flows expected to be collected are compared to the security’s amortized cost basis. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit-related impairment exists, and a charge to income and an associated allowance for credit losses is recorded for the credit-related impairment. Any impairment not related to credit losses is recorded through other comprehensive income. The amount of the allowance for credit losses is limited to the amount by which fair value is less than the amortized cost basis. Upon recognizing a credit-related impairment, the cost basis of the security is not adjusted. 52 Subsequent changes in the allowance for credit losses are recorded as a provision for, or reversal of, credit loss expense. For fixed maturities where we record a credit loss, a determination is made as to the cause of the impairment and whether we expect a recovery in the value. Write-offs are charged against the allowance when management concludes the financial asset is uncollectible. For fixed maturities where we expect a recovery in value, the effective yield method is utilized, and the investment is amortized to par. We recorded a $1.5 million allowance for credit losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale for the year ended December 31, 2020. For available for sale fixed maturity securities that we intend to sell, or for which it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell before recovery of our amortized cost basis, the entire impairment loss, or difference between the fair value and amortized cost basis of the security, is recognized in net realized gains (losses). The new cost basis of the security is the previous amortized cost basis less the impairment recognized and is not adjusted for any subsequent recoveries in fair value. See also Notes 2, 5 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report, “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – Our investment portfolio is subject to market risk, including changes in interest rates that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition ” and “ – Investments” contained in this Item 7. Reinsurance Reinsurance recoverables were $9.84 billion and $9.59 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which include amounts we are owed by reinsurers for claims paid as well as those included in reserve estimates that are subject to the reinsurance. Reinsurance premiums paid are amortized as reductions to premium over the terms of the underlying reinsured policies. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves. We use a probability of default and loss given default methodology in estimating the allowance, whereby the credit ratings of reinsurers are used in determining the probability of default. The allowance is established for reinsurance recoverables on paid and unpaid future policy benefits and claims and benefits. Prior to applying default factors, the net exposure to credit risk is reduced for any collateral for which the right of offset exists, such as funds withheld, assets held in trust and letters of credit, which are part of the reinsurance arrangements, with adjustments to include consideration of credit exposure on the collateral. Our methodology incorporates historical default factors for each reinsurer based on their credit rating using comparably rated bonds as published by a major ratings service. The allowance is based upon our ongoing review of amounts outstanding, length of collection periods, changes in reinsurer credit standing and other relevant factors. We have used reinsurance to exit certain businesses, including Assurant Employee Benefits and blocks of individual life, annuity and long-term care business. The reinsurance recoverables relating to these dispositions amounted to $4.42 billion and $4.46 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in both the assumption and cession of reinsurance with non-affiliated companies. The following table provides details of the reinsurance recoverables balance as of December 31, 2020 and 2019: We utilize reinsurance for loss protection and capital management, business dispositions and, in Global Lifestyle and Global Housing, client risk and profit sharing. See also Notes 2, 5 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report, “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – Reinsurance may not be adequate or available to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers ” and “Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Credit Risk.” Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We have sponsored a qualified pension plan (the “Assurant Pension Plan”) and various non-qualified pension plans (including an Executive Pension Plan), along with a retirement health benefits plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. Effective March 1, 2016, benefit accruals for the Assurant Pension Plan, the various non-qualified pension plans and the retirement health benefits plan were frozen. The reported amounts associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions, which include, but are not limited to, the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation vary and include 53 an expectation of long-term appreciation in equity markets, which is not changed by minor short-term market fluctuations, but does change when large prolonged interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. In February 2020, we amended the Retirement Health Benefits to terminate effective December 31, 2024 (the “Termination Date”). Benefits will be paid up to the Termination Date. The Retirement Health Benefits obligations were re-measured using a discount rate of 1.55%, selected based on a cash flow analysis using a bond yield curve as of February 29, 2020, and the fair market value of the Retirement Health Benefits assets as of February 29, 2020. The remeasurement resulted in a reduction to the Retirement Health Benefits obligations of $65.6 million and a corresponding prior service credit in AOCI, which will be reclassified from AOCI as it is amortized in the net periodic benefit cost over the remaining period until the Termination Date. Contingencies A loss contingency is recorded if reasonably estimable and probable. We establish reserves for these contingencies at the best estimate, or if no one estimated amount within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, we record an estimated reserve at the low end of the estimated range. Contingencies affecting us primarily relate to legal and regulatory matters, which are inherently difficult to evaluate and are subject to significant changes. Deferred Taxes Deferred income taxes are recorded for temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities, based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which we expect the temporary differences to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance is sufficient to reduce the asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. We have deferred tax assets resulting from temporary differences that may reduce taxable income in future periods. The detailed components of our deferred tax assets, liabilities and valuation allowance are included in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had a cumulative valuation allowance of $27.6 million and $76.6 million, respectively, against deferred tax assets of international subsidiaries. The change during the period is primarily related to an additional valuation allowance established on the investment in Iké of $6.7 million and the derecognition of the total valuation allowance of $56.5 million on the investment in Iké as the investment was sold in a manner that resulted in the loss of tax benefits. The realization of deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of international subsidiaries depends upon the existence of sufficient future taxable income of the same character in the same jurisdiction. In determining whether the deferred tax asset is realizable, we weighed all available evidence, both positive and negative. We considered all sources of taxable income available to realize the asset, including the future reversal of existing temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences, carry forwards and tax-planning strategies. We believe it is more likely than not that the remainder of our deferred tax assets will be realized.  Accordingly, other than as noted herein for certain international subsidiaries, a valuation allowance has not been established. Future reversal of the valuation allowance will be recognized either when the benefit is realized or when we determine that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be realized. Depending on the nature of the taxable income that results in a reversal of the valuation allowance, and on management’s judgment, the reversal will be recognized either through other comprehensive income (loss) or through continuing operations in the consolidated statements of operations. Likewise, if we determine that it is not more likely than not that we would be able to realize all or part of the deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded through a charge to continuing operations in the consolidated statements of operations in the period such determination is made. In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, management makes judgments about recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions used in making these judgments are updated periodically by management based on current business conditions that affect us and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change based on factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in expected capital gain income in the foreseeable future and our ability to successfully execute our tax planning strategies. See also “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – The value of our deferred tax assets could become impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition .” Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill 54 Our goodwill related to acquisitions of businesses was $2.59 billion and $2.34 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Such indicators include, but are not limited to: a significant adverse change in legal factors, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company-specific factors or the broader business climate. The evaluation of such factors requires considerable management judgment. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is either at the operating segment or one level below, if that component is a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews such information. Components within an operating segment can be aggregated into one reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics.  A goodwill impairment loss is measured as the excess of the carrying value, including goodwill, of the reporting unit over its fair value.  An impairment loss is limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Our Global Lifestyle operating segment is disaggregated into the following three reporting units: Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other. Our reporting units for goodwill testing were at the same level as the operating segment for Global Housing and Global Preneed. The following table illustrates the amount of goodwill carried by operating segment as of the dates indicated: (1) As of December 31, 2020, $715.2 million, $1,421.3 million and $73.3 million of goodwill was assigned to the Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other reporting unit, respectively. As of December 31, 2019, $461.5 million, $1,291.7 million, and $72.7 million of goodwill was assigned to the Connected Living, Global Automotive and Global Financial Services and Other reporting unit, respectively. Global Preneed Goodwill Impairment During the third quarter of 2020, the Company identified impairment indicators impacting the fair value of the Global Preneed reportable segment in connection with exploring strategic alternatives for the Global Preneed business, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing segments. Such impairment indicators included the evaluation of the long-term economic performance of the segment in light of further expected declines in interest rates from the resurgence of COVID-19 cases. As interest rates are critical to the performance of the business, the anticipated long-term declines in interest rates were expected to have adverse impacts on existing business and cause significant challenges to profitability from new business. The overall expected adverse impact to the business in the segment was an important indicator that triggered the requirement for an interim goodwill impairment analysis in the third quarter of 2020. As a result, an updated fair value assessment was completed based on how a market participant would consider the long-term outlook for business performance, long-term forecasts of the interest rate environment and its impact on the fair value of liabilities. The fair value of the reportable segment was determined using a discounted cash flow method which calculated the present value of future earnings developed from projected earnings arising from existing and new business and considered all aspects of the business including investment assumptions of asset portfolios. The fair value calculated in the third quarter of 2020 was lower than the carrying value of the reportable segment, resulting in the pre-tax and after-tax impairment charge of the entire goodwill of $137.8 million related to the segment. The goodwill impairment charge is reported separately in the consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020, with a corresponding reduction to goodwill in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. Quantitative Impairment Testing In the fourth quarter of 2020, we performed a quantitative assessment for the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing reporting units given the uncertainty in macro-economic conditions and the overall industry performance due to COVID-19 impacts. Based on this quantitative assessment, the Company determined that it was more likely than not that the reporting units’ fair values were more than their carrying amounts and that there was no impairment for the Global Lifestyle and Global Housing reporting units as of October 1, 2020. The determination of fair value of the reporting units requires many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, earnings and required capital projections discussed above, discount rates, terminal 55 growth rates, operating income and dividend forecasts for each reporting unit and the weighting assigned to the results of each of the three valuation methods described above. Changes in certain assumptions could have a significant impact on the goodwill impairment assessment. Should the operating results of these reporting units decline substantially compared to projected results, or should further interest rate declines increase the net unrealized investment portfolio gain position, we could determine that we need to perform an updated impairment test due to the potential impairment indicators, which may require the recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in any of the reporting units. For the fourth quarter of 2020 quantitative assessment, had the net book value for any of the reporting units, aside from Global Preneed, exceeded its estimated fair value, the Company would have recognized a goodwill impairment loss for the difference up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further detail. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Results of Operations Assurant Consolidated Overview The table below presents information regarding our consolidated results of operations: Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders 56 Consolidated net income attributable to common stockholders increased $59.2 million, or 16%, to $423.1 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $363.9 million for Twelve Months 2019. Net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes, due to several storms in 2020 including Hurricane Laura, compared to $41.0 million in Twelve Months 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, net income increased $155.4 million, or 38%, due to $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from decreases in the estimated fair value of Iké, an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act, an improvement in our results from Global Housing and Global Lifestyle and the absence of $29.6 million of after-tax debt related charges from Twelve Months 2019. These increases were partially offset by the $137.8 million after-tax impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill and a $68.2 million after-tax decrease in net realized gains on investments mostly due to a decrease in net unrealized gains on equity securities and higher unrealized losses from the decrease in fair value of collateralized loan obligations, as well as $21.5 million of after-tax direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Global Lifestyle Overview The table below presents information regarding the Global Lifestyle segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income Segment net income increased $27.9 million, or 7%, to $437.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $409.3 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by our Connected Living business, mainly due to continued mobile subscriber growth in North America and Asia Pacific and improved extended service contract loss experience, as well as higher income and organic growth from our Global Automotive business. These increases were partially offset by lower investment income and unfavorable foreign exchange. Additionally, our Global Financial Services and Other business has lower income, mainly due to 57 lower volumes and higher loss experience, primarily resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, and anticipated declines from domestic business in run-off. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $186.9 million, or 3%, to $7.53 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $7.35 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Net earned premiums increased $368.5 million, or 6%, primarily driven by continued growth from prior period production in our Global Automotive business and growth in our Connected Living business, mainly due to growth in domestic extended service contract programs and continued subscriber growth from mobile protection programs. These increases in net earned premiums were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange and a decrease in our Global Financial Services and Other business, mainly due to domestic business in run-off. Fees and other income decreased $125.1 million, or 12%, primarily driven by lower mobile trade-in results, mainly due to a $117.0 million impact resulting from the previously mentioned mobile program contract change. Net investment income decreased $56.5 million, or 23%, primarily due to lower cash yields, lower invested asset balances, lower income from real estate and unfavorable foreign exchange. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $158.1 million, or 2%, to $6.97 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $6.81 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired increased $350.2 million, or 12%, primarily due to growth from our Global Automotive and Connected Living businesses.  This increase was partially offset by a decrease in policyholder benefits of $103.6 million, or 7%, primarily driven by a favorable mix of mobile business, lower loss experience within our Connected Living and Global Automotive businesses, in part due to COVID-19, partially offset by an increase from growth in those businesses. Underwriting, general and administrative expenses decreased $88.5 million, or 4%, primarily due to a mobile program contract change, as mentioned above, favorable foreign exchange and expense initiatives across the segment, partially offset by an increase from growth in our Global Automotive and Connected Living businesses, including new acquisitions. Global Housing Overview The table below presents information regarding the Global Housing segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated: 58 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income Segment net income decreased $24.9 million, or 10%, to $233.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $258.7 million for Twelve Months 2019. Segment net income for Twelve Months 2020 included $137.2 million of reportable catastrophes, due to several storms in 2020, compared to $40.9 million in Twelve Months 2019. Excluding reportable catastrophes, segment net income increased $71.4 million, or 24%, primarily driven by favorable non-catastrophe losses across all major lines of businesses, including underwriting improvements in sharing economy offerings.  The increase was also driven by higher premium rates in our Lender-placed Insurance business, the absence of losses from our small commercial product and lower operating expenses in our Lender-placed Insurance business. The increase was partially offset by lower REO volume and fee income in our Lender-placed Insurance business, fewer policies in-force from a financially insolvent client and lower investment income. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $78.8 million, or 4%, to $2.05 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $2.13 billion for Twelve Months 2019. Net earned premiums decreased $51.5 million, or 3%, primarily due to declines in our Lender-placed Insurance business, declines in our small commercial business, a reduction in policies in-force for a financially insolvent client and lower REO volume. This decrease was partially offset by premium rate increases in our Lender-placed Insurance business, continued growth from renters insurance in our Multifamily Housing business and growth from our Specialty and Other business, mainly sharing economy products. Net investment income decreased $22.4 million, or 24%, primarily due to lower income from real estate related investments, lower cash yields and a decrease in invested assets. Fees and other income decreased $4.9 million, or 3%, primarily due to a decline in our Lender-placed Insurance business, mostly due to lower loss draft volume. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $47.6 million, or 3%, to $1.76 billion for Twelve Months 2020 from $1.80 billion for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $34.3 million, or 5%, in underwriting, general and administrative expenses, primarily due to lower employment related expenses in our Lender-placed Insurance business. Policyholder benefits decreased $17.4 million, or 2%, mainly from lower non-catastrophe losses across all major lines of businesses and the absence of losses from our small commercial product, partially offset by higher reportable catastrophe losses. Global Preneed Overview The table below presents information regarding the Global Preneed segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated: 59 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Income Segment net income decreased $4.2 million, or 8%, to $48.0 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $52.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to higher mortality from COVID-19, a decrease in investment income, an increase in Final Need policy cancellations in the fourth quarter of 2020, partly due to COVID-19, and updated assumptions for the earnings patterns of new policies. These decreases were partially offset by the absence of a $9.9 million after-tax expense related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period recorded in Twelve Months 2019. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $5.2 million, or 1%, to $491.4 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $486.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to growth in domestic pre-funded funeral policies in the U.S. and sales of the Final Need product, partially offset by lower investment income, mainly due to lower income from real estate and lower yielding new money fixed maturity securities purchases. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $10.0 million, or 2%, to $431.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $421.2 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to a $15.4 million, or 6%, increase in policyholder benefits, mainly driven by the growth in the domestic preneed business. This increase was partially offset by a $4.4 million, or 5%, decrease in amortization of deferred acquisition costs and value of business acquired, primarily due to the absence of a $14.2 million expense recorded in Twelve Months 2019 related to an out of period adjustment for over-capitalization of deferred acquisition costs occurring over a ten-year period, partially offset by growth in the domestic preneed business and higher amortization resulting from the increase in Final Need policy cancellations in the fourth quarter of 2020. 60 Corporate and Other Overview The table below presents information regarding the Corporate and Other segment’s results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 Net Loss Attributable to Common Stockholders Segment net loss attributable to common stockholders decreased $60.4 million, or 17%, to $295.9 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $356.3 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily due to $154.6 million of lower after-tax losses from decreases in the estimated fair value of Iké, an $84.4 million tax benefit related to the utilization of net operating losses in connection with the CARES Act in Twelve Months 2020 and the absence of $29.6 million of after-tax debt related charges associated with refinancing debt at a lower interest rate in Twelve Months 2019. These increases were partially offset by the $137.8 million after-tax impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill and a $68.2 million after-tax decrease in net realized gains on investments as well as $21.5 million of after-tax direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $105.3 million, or 83%, to $21.4 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $126.7 million for Twelve Months 2019, primarily driven by an $82.5 million decrease in net realized gains on investments mostly due to $28.1 million of lower net unrealized gains on equity securities, $22.5 million of higher net unrealized losses from the decrease in fair value of our collateralized loan obligations, a $15.6 million increase in impairments on equity investments accounted for under the measurement alternative and a decrease in net realized gains from sales of fixed maturity securities. The decrease was also driven by $17.9 million of lower net investment income due to a higher concentration of lower yielding liquid investments in 2020 compared to 2019 and lower income from real estate, as well as lower amortization of deferred gains associated with the sale of Assurant Employee Benefits. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses 61 Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $73.3 million, or 15%, to $425.7 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $499.0 million for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease in expenses for Twelve Months 2020 was primarily due to the absence of certain events that occurred in Twelve Months 2019, mainly $157.1 million of lower losses associated with Iké, $37.4 million of debt related charges associated with refinancing debt at a lower interest rate and a $15.6 million impairment of certain intangible assets from our acquisition of Green Tree Insurance Agency. The decrease was also due to $10.8 million of income, net of certain exit costs, from the sale of our CLO asset management platform, $10.0 million increase in the net pension benefit and the absence of a $9.6 million loss on the sale of our Mortgage Solutions business in Twelve Months 2019. These decreases were partially offset by the $137.8 million impairment on the Global Preneed goodwill, $27.2 million of direct and incremental operating expenses incurred in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and $11.8 million lower gain related to the reduction of the valuation allowance on the Company’s Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act of 2010 risk corridor program receivables. Investments We had total investments of $15.68 billion and $14.57 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities portfolio increased $660.5 million during Twelve Months 2020, from $1.26 billion at December 31, 2019 to $1.92 billion at December 31, 2020, primarily due to spread compression, partially offset by decreases in foreign exchange rates in several countries. The following table shows the credit quality of our fixed maturity securities portfolio as of the dates indicated: The following table shows the major categories of net investment income for the periods indicated: (1) The following table shows the revenues net of expenses from consolidated investment entities (“CIEs”) for the periods indicated. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for further detail. 62 (1) The investment income from the real estate funds includes income attributable to non-controlling interest of $1.1 million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net investment income decreased $100.1 million, or 15%, to $574.9 million for Twelve Months 2020 from $675.0 million for Twelve Months 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower income from other investments mostly due to a decrease in income from real estate that included $18.4 million of less income from sales of real estate joint venture partnerships and $18.3 million of lower unrealized gains from increases in fair market value in each period, and a decrease in income from short term investments and cash and cash equivalents mainly due to lower cash yields and unfavorable foreign exchange.  The decrease was also due to a reduction in income from fixed maturity securities due to lower yielding new money bond purchases and unfavorable foreign exchange. As of December 31, 2020, we owned $68.0 million of securities guaranteed by financial guarantee insurance companies. Included in this amount was $59.6 million of municipal securities, whose credit rating was A+ with the guarantee, but would have had a rating of A- without the guarantee. For more information on our investments, see Notes 8 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2020, we had $407.2 million of holding company liquidity. COVID-19 did not materially impact our liquidity and capital resources during Twelve Months 2020. Throughout this period, we believe our liquidity remained strong. For a discussion of COVID-19 related factors that could impact our liquidity, see “Item 1A — Risk Factors —Macroeconomic, Political and Global Market Risks — The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken in response thereto may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” The CARES Act, which was enacted in March 2020, includes measures to assist companies in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These measures include the ability to carry back net operating losses to prior years taxed at higher rates and defer the due dates of certain tax payments. Pursuant to the CARES Act, we carried back net operating losses to 2013 and 2014, resulting in a refund claim of $198.4 million during Twelve Months 2020. We also deferred our first and second quarter 2020 federal estimated tax payments and payments related to the employer’s portion of social security tax in 2020. This had or will have the effect of increasing cash outlays for these taxes during the second half of 2020, 2021 and 2022. In July 2020, we received the full amount of the refund plus interest related to the net operating losses we carried back under the CARES Act, a portion of which was included in Twelve Months 2020 holding company liquidity. We continue to monitor COVID-19-related legislation on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Regulatory Requirements Assurant, Inc. is a holding company and, as such, has limited direct operations of its own. Our assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, such as payments under our tax allocation agreement and under management agreements with our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends and make such other payments is regulated by the states and territories in which our subsidiaries are domiciled. These dividend regulations vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary, but generally require our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends they can pay to the holding company. See “Item 1 – Business – Regulation – U.S. Insurance Regulation” and “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Legal and Regulatory Risks – Changes in insurance regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth .” Along with solvency regulations, the primary driver in determining the amount of capital used for dividends from insurance subsidiaries is the level of capital needed to maintain desired financial strength ratings from A.M. Best. For the year ending December 31, 2021, the maximum amount of dividends our regulated U.S. domiciled insurance subsidiaries could pay us, under applicable laws and regulations without prior regulatory approval, is approximately $542.4 million. In addition, our international and non-insurance subsidiaries provide additional sources of dividends. Regulators or rating agencies could become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, increasing capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries. In 2020, the following actions were taken by the rating agencies: A.M. Best • In July 2020, affirmed all financial strength ratings of our subsidiaries, as well as the rating of Assurant, Inc., each with a stable outlook. • In October 2020, following our announcement related to exploring strategic alternatives for Global Preneed, including a potential sale of the business, placed the ratings of four of our subsidiaries under review with developing implications pending the conclusion of the process. 63 • In November 2020, assigned a bbb rating to our 2061 Subordinated Notes (as defined below) with a stable outlook. Moody’s • In November 2020, assigned a Ba1 rating to our 2061 Subordinated Notes with a stable outlook. S&P • In the third quarter of 2020, all ratings were affirmed with a stable outlook. • In November 2020, following our announcement related to exploring strategic alternatives for Global Preneed, including a potential sale of the business, placed the ratings of two of our subsidiaries on credit watch with developing implications pending the conclusion of the process. • In November 2020, assigned a BB+ to our 2061 Subordinated Notes with a stable outlook. For further information on our ratings and the risks of ratings downgrades, see “Item 1 – Business – Ratings” and “Item 1A – Risk Factors – Financial Risks – A decline in the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition .” Holding Company As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $407.2 million in holding company liquidity, $182.2 million above our targeted minimum level of $225.0 million. The target minimum level of holding company liquidity, which can be used for unforeseen capital needs at our subsidiaries or liquidity needs at the holding company, is calibrated based on approximately one year of corporate operating losses and interest expenses and MCPS dividends. We use the term “holding company liquidity” to represent the portion of cash and other liquid marketable securities held at Assurant, Inc., out of a total of $536.0 million of holding company investment securities and cash, which we are not otherwise holding for a specific purpose as of the balance sheet date. We can use such assets for stock repurchases, stockholder dividends, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. Dividends or returns of capital paid by our subsidiaries, net of infusions and excluding amounts used for or as a result of acquisitions or received from dispositions, were $821.0 million and $748.0 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. We use these cash inflows primarily to pay expenses, to make interest payments on indebtedness, to make dividend payments to our stockholders, to fund acquisitions and to repurchase our shares. In addition to paying expenses, making interest payments on indebtedness and making dividend payments on our preferred stock, our capital management strategy provides for several uses of the cash generated by our subsidiaries, including without limitation, returning capital to common stockholders through share repurchases and dividends, investing in our business to support growth in targeted areas and making prudent and opportunistic acquisitions. From time to time, we may also seek to purchase outstanding debt in open market repurchases or privately negotiated transactions. During Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, we made common stock repurchases and paid dividends to our common stockholders of $454.4 million and $426.3 million, respectively. In May 2020, we completed the sale of our 40% minority interests in Iké and terminated our obligations to purchase the remaining shares of Iké (collectively, the “Sale”). In connection with the Sale, we provided financing to Iké Grupo in an aggregate principal amount of $34.0 million (the “Iké Loan”). The Iké Loan matures in May 2025, bears floating interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 4.25% per annum payable quarterly and provides for quarterly principal amortization payments through the maturity date. The outstanding balance of the Iké Loan as of December 31, 2020 was $32.3 million. For Twelve Months 2020, net cash outflows related to the Sale were $85.3 million, including net proceeds paid of $73.3 million and the Iké Loan of $34.0 million, less cash inflows of $22.0 million upon settling a financial derivative we had entered into in connection with our agreement to sell our interests in Iké. The financial derivative had provided an economic hedge against declines in the Mexican Peso relative to the U.S. Dollar since the purchase price was to be paid in Mexican Pesos. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. In May 2020, we also completed our acquisition of AFAS, a provider of finance and insurance products and services including vehicle service contracts, guaranteed asset protection insurance and other ancillary products, for total consideration of $176.9 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing and therefore excluded from dividends paid by subsidiaries. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. In October 2020, we announced that we are exploring a range of strategic alternatives for Global Preneed, including the possible sale of the business, to focus on opportunities within the broader lifestyle and housing portfolio. 64 In December 2020, we completed our acquisition of HYLA, a provider of smartphone software and trade-in and upgrade services, for $348.8 million, a portion of which was excess cash in the business that was distributed to the holding company shortly after closing and therefore excluded from dividends paid by subsidiaries. The Company used the net proceeds of $243.7 million from the 2061 Subordinated Notes, along with cash on hand, to finance the acquisition. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. Assurant Subsidiaries The primary sources of funds for our subsidiaries consist of premiums and fees collected, proceeds from the sales and maturity of investments and net investment income. Cash is primarily used to pay insurance claims, agent commissions, operating expenses and taxes. We generally invest our subsidiaries’ excess funds in order to generate investment income. We conduct periodic asset liability studies to measure the duration of our insurance liabilities, to develop optimal asset portfolio maturity structures for our significant lines of business and ultimately to assess that cash flows are sufficient to meet the timing of cash needs. These studies are conducted in accordance with formal company-wide Asset Liability Management guidelines. To complete a study for a particular line of business, models are developed to project asset and liability cash flows and balance sheet items under a large, varied set of plausible economic scenarios. These models consider many factors including the current investment portfolio, the required capital for the related assets and liabilities, our tax position and projected cash flows from both existing and projected new business. Alternative asset portfolio structures are analyzed for significant lines of business. An investment portfolio maturity structure is then selected from these profiles given our return hurdle and risk appetite. Scenario testing of significant liability assumptions and new business projections is also performed. Specific to COVID-19, several scenarios around impact on near term asset and liability projections, including new business, were modeled and evaluated. Our liabilities generally have limited policyholder optionality, which means that the timing of payments is relatively insensitive to the interest rate environment. In addition, our investment portfolio is largely comprised of highly liquid fixed maturity securities with a sufficient component of such securities invested that are near maturity which may be sold with minimal risk of loss to meet cash needs. Therefore, we believe we have limited exposure to disintermediation risk. Generally, our subsidiaries’ premiums, fees and investment income, along with planned asset sales and maturities, provide sufficient cash to pay claims and expenses. However, there may be instances when unexpected cash needs arise in excess of that available from usual operating sources. In such instances, we have several options to raise needed funds, including selling assets from the subsidiaries’ investment portfolios, using holding company cash (if available), issuing commercial paper, or drawing funds from the five-year senior unsecured $450.0 million revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”) with a syndicate of banks arranged by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (of which $445.5 million was available as of December 31, 2020). In addition, in January 2021, we filed an automatically effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC. This registration statement allows us to issue equity, debt or other types of securities through one or more methods of distribution. The terms of any offering would be established at the time of the offering, subject to market conditions. If we decide to make an offering of securities, we will consider the nature of the cash requirement as well as the cost of capital in determining what type of securities we may offer. Dividends and Repurchases On January 12, 2021, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.66 per common share payable on March 15, 2021 to stockholders of record as of February 22, 2021. We paid dividends of $0.66 per common share on December 21, 2020 to stockholders of record as of November 30, 2020. This represented a 5% increase to the quarterly dividend of $0.63 per common share paid on September 22, June 16, and March 16, 2020. On January 12, 2021, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $1.6250 per share of MCPS payable on March 15, 2021 to stockholders of record as of March 1, 2021, which will be the final dividend paid on the MCPS. We paid dividends of $1.6250 per share of MCPS on December 15, 2020 to stockholders of record as of December 1, 2020, consistent with dividends paid on September 15, June 15, and March 16, 2020. Pursuant to its terms, the MCPS will convert into shares of common stock on March 15, 2021. Any determination to pay future dividends will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent upon various factors, including: our subsidiaries’ payments of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial condition and capital requirements; general business conditions and growth prospects; any legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and any other factors the Board deems relevant. Payments of dividends on shares of common stock are subject to the preferential rights of the MCPS described below. The Credit Facility also contains limitations on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders if we are in default, or such 65 dividend payments would cause us to be in default, of our obligations thereunder. In addition, if we defer the payment of interest on our Subordinated Notes, we generally may not make payments on our capital stock. During Twelve Months 2020, we repurchased 2,438,975 shares of our outstanding common stock at a cost of $299.8 million, exclusive of commissions. On January 12, 2021, the Board authorized a new share repurchase program for up to $600.0 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock. The new share repurchase authorization is in addition to the $186.5 million of prior authorization remaining as of December 31, 2020. The timing and the amount of future repurchases will depend on market conditions, our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and other factors, including the impact of COVID-19 on our business. Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our debt and dividends on our common and preferred stock. Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock In March 2018, we issued 2,875,000 shares of our MCPS. Each outstanding share of MCPS will convert automatically on March 15, 2021 into between 0.9398 (the “minimum conversion rate”) and 1.1277 shares of common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. At any time prior to March 2021, holders may elect to convert each share of MCPS into shares of common stock at the minimum conversion rate or in the event of a fundamental change at the specified rates defined in the Certificate of Designations of the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Dividends on the MCPS will be payable on a cumulative basis when, as and if declared, at an annual rate of 6.50% of the liquidation preference of $100.00 per share. We may pay declared dividends in cash or, subject to certain limitations, in shares of our common stock, or in any combination of cash and shares of our common stock quarterly, commencing in June 2018 and ending in March 2021. No dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on common stock or any other class or series of junior stock, and no common stock or any other class or series of junior stock or parity stock may be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the MCPS for all preceding dividend periods have been declared and paid in full, subject to certain limited exceptions. We paid preferred stock dividends of $18.7 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019. For additional information regarding the MCPS, see Note 20 in the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Credit Facility and Commercial Paper Program We have a Credit Facility that provides for revolving loans and the issuance of multi-bank, syndicated letters of credit and letters of credit from a sole issuing bank in an aggregate amount of $450.0 million, which may be increased up to $575.0 million. The Credit Facility is available until December 2022, provided we are in compliance with all covenants. The Credit Facility has a sub-limit for letters of credit issued thereunder of $50.0 million. The proceeds from these loans may be used for our commercial paper program or for general corporate purposes. In March 2020, we drew down $200.0 million from our Credit Facility. We repaid the loan in July 2020, at the end of the then-current interest period. While outstanding, the loan bore interest at a floating rate equal to LIBOR (three-month during the initial interest period and one-month in the second and final interest rate period) plus 1.50% per annum. Our commercial paper program requires us to maintain liquidity facilities either in an available amount equal to any outstanding notes from the program or in an amount sufficient to maintain the ratings assigned to the notes issued from the program. Our commercial paper is rated AMB-1 by A.M. Best, P-3 by Moody’s and A-2 by S&P. Our subsidiaries do not maintain commercial paper or other borrowing facilities. This program is currently backed up by the Credit Facility, of which $445.5 million was available as of December 31, 2020, and $4.5 million letters of credit were outstanding. We did not use the commercial paper program during Twelve Months 2020 or Twelve Months 2019 and there were no amounts relating to the commercial paper program outstanding as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. Besides the aforementioned draw down, we made no borrowings using the Credit Facility during Twelve Months 2020 or Twelve Months 2019 and no loans were outstanding as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. Covenants The Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants including, but not limited to: (i) Maintenance of a maximum consolidated total debt to capitalization ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter of not greater than 0.35 to 1.0; and (ii) Maintenance of a consolidated adjusted net worth in an amount not less than a “Minimum Amount” equal to the sum of (a) the greater of 70% of our consolidated adjusted net worth on the date of the closing of the TWG acquisition and $2.72 billion, (b) 25% of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter (if positive) beginning with the first fiscal quarter ending after the date of the closing of the TWG acquisition and (c) 25% of the net cash 66 proceeds received from any capital contribution to, or issuance of any capital stock, disqualified capital stock and hybrid securities, received after the closing of the TWG acquisition. In the event of a breach of certain covenants, all obligations under the Credit Facility, including unpaid principal and accrued interest and outstanding letters of credit, may become immediately due and payable. Senior and Subordinated Notes The following table shows the principal amount and carrying value of our outstanding debt, less unamortized discount and issuance costs as applicable, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019: (1) Bears floating interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.25%, per annum. In January 2021, we redeemed the remaining $50.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. (2) Bears a 7.00% annual interest rate from March 2018 to March 2028 and an annual interest rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 4.135% thereafter. Recent Issuances 2061 Subordinated Notes: In November 2020, we issued subordinated notes due January 2061 with a principal amount of $250.0 million, which bear interest at an annual rate of 5.25% (the “2061 Subordinated Notes”). Interest is payable quarterly in arrears beginning in April 2021. On or after January 2026, we may redeem the 2061 Subordinated Notes in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, provided that if they are not redeemed in whole, a minimum amount must remain outstanding. At any time prior to January 2026, we may redeem the 2061 Subordinated Notes in whole but not in part, within 90 days after the occurrence of a tax event, rating agency event or regulatory capital event as defined in the global note representing the 2061 Subordinated Notes, at a redemption price equal to (i) with respect to a rating agency event, 102% of their principal amount and (ii) with respect to a tax event or a regulatory capital event, their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. See below, under 2048 Subordinated Notes (as defined below), for more information on terms applicable to both series. We used the net proceeds of $243.7 million from the 2061 Subordinated Notes, along with cash on hand, to finance the acquisition of HYLA. For additional information on the acquisition, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. Senior Notes 2030 Senior Notes: In August 2019, we issued senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million which bear interest at a rate of 3.70% per year, mature in February 2030 and were issued at a 0.035% discount to the public (the “2030 Senior Notes”). Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears beginning in February 2020. Prior to November 2029, we may redeem the 2030 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a make-whole premium plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after that date, we may redeem the 2030 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. We used the net proceeds from the offering, together with cash on hand to purchase $100.0 million of our 6.75% senior notes due 2034 in a cash tender offer, to redeem $250.0 million of our floating rate senior notes due 2021 and to pay related premiums, fees and expenses. In March 2018, we issued the following three series of senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $900.0 million: • 2021 Senior Notes: The first series of senior notes is $300.0 million in principal amount, bears floating interest rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.25% (1.50% as of December 31, 2020) and matures in March 2021 (the “2021 67 Senior Notes”). Interest on the 2021 Senior Notes is payable quarterly. Commencing on or after March 2019, we may redeem the 2021 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. In August 2019, we redeemed $250.0 million of the $300.0 million then outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In January 2021, we redeemed the remaining $50.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. • 2023 Senior Notes: The second series of senior notes is $300.0 million in principal amount, bears interest at 4.20% per year, matures in September 2023 and was issued at a 0.233% discount to the public (the “2023 Senior Notes”). Interest on the 2023 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. Prior to August 2023, we may redeem the 2023 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a make-whole premium plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after that date, we may redeem the 2023 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. • 2028 Senior Notes: The third series of senior notes is $300.0 million in principal amount, bears interest at 4.90% per year, matures in March 2028 and was issued at a 0.383% discount to the public (the “2028 Senior Notes”). Interest on the 2028 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually. Prior to December 2027, we may redeem the 2028 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a make-whole premium plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after that date, we may redeem the 2028 Senior Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. The interest rate payable on each of the 2021 Senior Notes, 2023 Senior Notes, 2028 Senior Notes and 2030 Senior Notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time, if either Moody’s or S&P downgrades the credit rating assigned to such series of senior notes to Ba1 or below or to BB+ or below, respectively, or subsequently upgrades the credit ratings once the senior notes are at or below such levels. For more details on the increase in interest rate over the issuance rate by rating, see Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. In March 2013, we issued two series of senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $700.0 million. The first series was $350.0 million in principal amount, bore interest at 2.50% per year and was repaid at maturity in March 2018. The second series is $350.0 million in principal amount and was issued at a 0.365% discount to the public. This series bears interest at 4.00% per year and matures in March 2023. Interest is payable semi-annually. We may redeem the outstanding series of senior notes in whole or in part at any time and from time to time before maturity at the redemption price set forth in the global note representing the outstanding series of senior notes. In February 2004, we issued senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $475.0 million at a 0.61% discount to the public, which bear interest at 6.75% per year and matures in February 2034. Interest is payable semi-annually. These senior notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. In December 2016 and August 2019, we completed a cash tender offer of $100.0 million each in aggregate principal amount of such senior notes. A loss on extinguishment of debt of $31.4 million was reported for the year ended December 31, 2019. Other Subordinated Notes 2048 Subordinated Notes : In March 2018, we issued fixed-to-floating rate subordinated notes due March 2048 with a principal amount of $400.0 million (the “2048 Subordinated Notes”), which bear interest from March 2018 to March 2028 at an annual rate of 7.00%, payable semi-annually. The 2048 Subordinated Notes will bear interest at an annual rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 4.135%, payable quarterly, beginning in June 2028. On or after March 2028, we may redeem the 2048 Subordinated Notes in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price equal to their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, provided that if they are not redeemed in whole, a minimum amount must remain outstanding. At any time prior to March 2028, we may redeem the 2048 Subordinated Notes in whole but not in part, within 90 days after the occurrence of a tax event, rating agency event or regulatory capital event as defined in the global note representing the 2048 Subordinated Notes, at a redemption price equal to (i) with respect to a rating agency event 102% of their principal amount and (ii) with respect to a tax event or a regulatory capital event, their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. 68 In addition, so long as no event of default with respect to the 2048 Subordinated Notes and 2061 Subordinated Notes (together, the “Subordinated Notes”) has occurred and is continuing, we have the right, on one or more occasions, to defer the payment of interest on the Subordinated Notes for one or more consecutive interest periods for up to five years as described in the global note representing the Subordinated Notes. During a deferral period, interest will continue to accrue on the Subordinated Notes at the then-applicable interest rate. At any time when we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments on the Subordinated Notes, we generally may not make payments on or redeem or purchase any shares of our capital stock or any of our debt securities or guarantees that rank upon our liquidation on a parity with or junior to the Subordinated Notes, subject to certain limited exceptions. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We have sponsored an Assurant Pension Plan and various non-qualified pension plans (including an Executive Pension Plan), along with Retirement Health Benefits covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. Benefit accruals for the Assurant Pension Plan, the various non-qualified pension plans and the Retirement Health Benefits were frozen in March 2016. In February 2020, we amended the Retirement Health Benefits to terminate such plan benefits to retirees effective December 31, 2024. The reported amounts associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions, which include, but are not limited to, the discount rate and expected return on plan assets. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation vary and include an expectation of long-term appreciation in equity markets, which is not changed by minor short-term market fluctuations, but does change when large prolonged interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. During 2020, there were no contributions to the Assurant Pension Plan. Due to the Plan’s current overfunded status, no contributions are expected to be made to the Assurant Pension Plan in 2021. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information. Cash Flows We monitor cash flows at the consolidated, holding company and subsidiary levels. Cash flow forecasts at the consolidated and subsidiary levels are provided on a monthly basis, and we use trend and variance analyses to project future cash needs making adjustments to the forecasts when needed. The table below shows our recent net cash flows for the periods indicated: Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 Operating Activities We typically generate operating cash inflows from premiums collected from our insurance products, fees received for services and income received from our investments while outflows consist of policy acquisition costs, benefits paid and operating expenses. These net cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.34 billion and $1.41 billion for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to the timing of certain cash payments and business activities from our Global Lifestyle business. The primary factors contributing to the decrease included the absence of a prior year receipt of prepaid premiums in Japan given subsequent changes in payment terms under the program and the timing of cumulative payments to a vendor related to a program initiated in 2019 for acquiring mobile devices used to meet insurance claims or generate profits through sales to third parties.  These decreases were partially offset by receipt 69 of a $204.9 million tax refund, which includes interest, related to the ability to carryback net operating losses to prior periods under the CARES Act and higher collections of premium receivable balances mostly due to timing. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $735.2 million and $619.8 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $458.6 million of cash used for acquisitions, net of $135.5 million of cash acquired, partially offset by the timing of net purchases of securities in connection with CLO structures launched in 2019. For additional information, see Notes 3 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. The remaining changes were due to the ongoing management of our investment portfolio. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $264.8 million and $179.2 million for Twelve Months 2020 and Twelve Months 2019, respectively. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to $268.4 million of lower cash from our CIEs provided, net of repayments of borrowings to short-term warehouse facilities, primarily related to the timing of CLO structures launched in 2019. Also contributing was an increase in the repurchase of the Company’s outstanding common stock for Twelve Months 2020. These were partially offset by the issuance of the 2061 Subordinated Notes, net of issuance costs, of $243.7 million in Twelve Months 2020 and a $31.4 million loss on extinguishment of debt in connection with the tender offer of $100 million of our 6.75% notes due 2034 recorded in Twelve Months 2019. For additional information, see Notes 9 and 19, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. The table below shows our cash outflows for taxes, interest and dividends for the periods indicated: Commitments and Contingencies We have obligations and commitments to third parties as a result of our operations, as detailed in the table below by maturity date as of December 31, 2020: (1) Insurance liabilities reflect undiscounted estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders, net of expected future premium cash receipts on in-force policies and excluding fully reinsured runoff operations. The total gross reserve for fully reinsured runoff operations that was excluded was $4.80 billion which, if the reinsurers defaulted, would be payable over a 30+ year period with the majority of the payments occurring after 5 years. Additional information on the reinsurance arrangements can be found in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Report. As a 70 result, the amounts presented in this table do not agree to the future policy benefits and expenses and claims and benefits payable in the consolidated balance sheets. Liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses have been included in the commitments and contingencies table. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation, contract terms and the timing of payments. Letters of Credit In the normal course of business, letters of credit are issued primarily to support reinsurance arrangements in which we are the reinsurer. These letters of credit are supported by commitments under which we are required to indemnify the financial institution issuing the letter of credit if the letter of credit is drawn. We had $7.6 million and $12.1 million of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources of the Company.