********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risk Factor Summary • Global economic and geopolitical events, such as inflation, monetary policy responses and changing interest rates; a recession or economic downturn, political violence, and instability, including geo-economic fragmentation, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • Economic conditions that result in financial difficulties for underwriting enterprises or lead to reduced risk-taking capital capacity could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. • We have historically acquired large numbers of insurance brokers, benefit consulting firms and, to a lesser extent, third party claims administration and risk management firms.  We may not be able to continue such an acquisition strategy in the future and there are risks associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. • We face additional risks relating to acquisitions that are larger than our usual tuck-in acquisitions, including that these acquisitions will not perform as expected and that we cannot successfully integrate complex operations. • Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. • Our sustainability and ESG-related aspirations, goals and initiatives, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, expose us to numerous risks. • If we are unable to apply technology and data analytics effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain internal efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools, our operating results, client relationships, growth and compliance programs could be adversely affected. • We are subject to risks associated with AI. • Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified talent, including our senior management team. • The substantial increase in remote work among our employees subjects us to certain challenges and risks. • Business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operations, damage our reputation and impact client relationships. • Sustained increases in compensation expense and the cost of employee benefits could reduce our profitability. • Our substantial operations outside the U.S. expose us to risks different than those we face in the U.S. • Changes in tax laws could adversely affect us. • We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses. • Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry may seriously undermine our profitability. • Contingent and supplemental revenues we receive from underwriting enterprises are less predictable than standard commission revenues, and any decrease in the amount of these forms of revenue could adversely affect our results of operations. • We face a variety of risks in our benefit consulting operations distinct from those we face in our insurance brokerage operations. • We face a variety of risks in our third-party claims administration operations that are distinct from those we face in our brokerage and benefit consulting operations. • Climate risks, including the risk of an economic crisis, risks associated with the physical effects of climate change and disruptions caused by the transition to a low-carbon economy, could adversely affect our business, results of 11 operations and financial condition. Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks • Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary information and cybersecurity attacks or other security breach of our information systems, or those of third-party vendors we rely on, could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability or reputational harm, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation. • We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined unfavorably to us, would adversely affect our financial results. • Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations, or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business and financial results. • We could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of laws that impose requirements for the conduct of our overseas operations, including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws, sanctions laws, and FATCA. • We are subject to regulation worldwide.  If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if regulations change in a way that adversely affects our operations, we may not be able to conduct our business, or we may be less profitable. • We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined unfavorably to us, would adversely affect our financial results. • Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and operating results. • Limited protection of our intellectual property could harm our business and our ability to compete effectively, and we face the risk that our services or products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Risks Relating to our Investments, Debt and Common Stock • Our clean energy investments are subject to various risks and uncertainties. • The IRC Section 45 operations in which we have invested and the by-products from such operations may result in environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs. • We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility and subjects us to restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. Credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. • We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. • Future sales or other dilution of our equity could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to our Business Generally Global economic conditions and geopolitical events may cause unstable economic conditions in the countries, regions or industries in which we operate and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Global economic events, including accommodative monetary and fiscal policies, have contributed to significant inflation in many markets in which we operate.  To combat inflation and restore price stability, the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks raised interest rates in 2023.  While moderate inflation generally benefits our industry by increasing insurable asset values, increased inflation and higher interest rates have had far-reaching negative effects on the global economy during the past several years.  Geopolitical conflicts such as the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, geo-economic fragmentation, climate change, the transition to a low-carbon economy, political crises like potential U.S. governmental shutdowns or gridlock over increasing the U.S. debt ceiling, and political violence and instability worldwide could also weigh negatively on the economy. A recession or decline in economic activity, for these and any other reasons, could adversely impact us in future periods.  This could happen, for example, if our clients reduce the amount of insurance coverage, reinsurance coverage, consulting services or 12 claims administration services they purchase due to reductions in headcount, payroll, or replacement and asset values, among other factors.  Whether these reductions are caused by an overall economic downturn or declines in certain countries, regions and industries in which we operate, our commission and fee revenues, consulting revenues, or revenues from managing third-party insurance claims could be adversely impacted.  Some of our clients may also experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties due to tightening credit markets or lower levels of economic activity.  If our clients file for bankruptcy, liquidate their operations, consolidate or are generally unable to meet their obligations, our revenues, ability to collect receivables and liquidity could be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertain economic conditions have created volatility in the U.S. and other markets where we operate.  A rise in the cost of labor, cost of capital, or interest and tax rates, among other things, could negatively impact our operating and general and administrative expenses.  We have no or limited control over such developments.  If our costs grow significantly, our margins and results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted and we may not be able to achieve our strategic and financial objectives.  Further, a tightening of credit or capital markets could negatively impact our business, financial condition and liquidity, including our ability to continue to access preferred sources of liquidity when needed and under similar terms, which may increase our capital costs.  We could also experience losses on holdings of cash and investments due to failures of financial institutions and other counterparties.  Thus, a deterioration in macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Lower interest rates in the future could reduce investment earnings on our cash, revenue from our premium financing operations and short-term investments of fiduciary and operating funds.  In addition, lower levels of inflation in the future may reduce our revenue growth by slowing the increase in insurable asset values. Economic conditions that result in financial difficulties for underwriting enterprises or lead to reduced risk-taking capital capacity could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have a significant amount of receivables from certain of the underwriting enterprises with which we place insurance and reinsurance.  If those companies experience liquidity problems or other financial difficulties, we could encounter delays or defaults in payments owed to us, which could have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations.  The failure of an underwriting enterprise with which we place business could result in E&O claims against us by our clients.  Further, the failure of E&O underwriting enterprises could make the E&O insurance we rely upon cost prohibitive or unavailable.  Underwriting enterprises are also clients of Gallagher Re and, as such, any of the negative developments for underwriting enterprises referred to above could also reduce our commission revenues from such clients.  Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, if underwriting enterprises merge, fail, or withdraw from offering certain lines of coverage, for example, because of large payouts related to climate or weather events or other emerging risk areas, overall risk-taking capital capacity could be negatively affected, which could reduce our ability to place certain lines of coverage, reduce demand from the insurance company clients of Gallagher Re and, as a result, reduce our revenues and profitability. We have historically acquired large numbers of insurance brokers, benefit consulting firms and, to a lesser extent, third party claims administration and risk management firms.  We may not be able to continue such acquisition strategy in the future and there are risks associated with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth and results of operations. Our ordinary-course acquisition program has been an important part of our historical growth, particularly in our brokerage segment, and we believe that similar acquisition activity will be important to maintaining comparable growth in the future.  Failure to successfully identify and complete acquisitions would likely result in slower growth.  Continuing consolidation in our industry and a high level of interest in acquiring insurance brokers on the part of private equity firms, private equity-backed consolidators and newly public insurance brokers has, in some cases, made, and could in the future make, appropriate acquisition targets more difficult to identify and more expensive.  Even if we are able to identify appropriate acquisition targets, we may not have sufficient capital to fund acquisitions, be able to execute transactions on favorable terms or integrate targets in a manner that allows us to realize the benefits we have historically experienced from acquisitions.  When regulatory approval of acquisitions is required, our ability to complete acquisitions may be limited by an ongoing regulatory review or other issues with the relevant regulator.  Our ability to finance and integrate acquisitions may also decrease if we complete a greater number of larger acquisitions than we have historically.  See the risk factor below regarding larger acquisitions.  See also Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information regarding the size of transactions in the reporting period. Post-acquisition risks include poor cultural fit and risks relating to retention of personnel, retention of clients, entry into unfamiliar or complex markets or lines of business, contingencies or liabilities, such as violations of sanctions laws or anti-corruption laws including the FCPA and U.K. Bribery Act, risks relating to ensuring compliance with licensing and regulatory requirements, tax and accounting issues, the risk that an acquisition distracts management and personnel from our existing business, and integration difficulties relating to accounting, information technology (which we refer to as IT), pay equity, or 13 human resources, some or all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and growth.  The failure of acquisition targets to achieve anticipated revenue and earnings levels could also result in goodwill impairment charges. We face additional risks relating to acquisitions that are larger than our usual tuck-in acquisitions described above. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate the operations of acquisitions that are larger than our usual tuck-in acquisitions, such as Willis Re, Buck, Eastern Insurance, Cadence Insurance and My Plan Manager, that they will perform as expected, or that we will not incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities.  Integration efforts relating to larger acquisitions are more complex, including with respect to technology systems, which may divert management’s attention and resources and could adversely affect our operating results.  In addition, we have made certain assumptions relating to these acquisitions that may be inaccurate, including as a result of the failure to realize expected benefits, higher than expected integration costs and unknown liabilities as well as general economic and business conditions.  These assumptions relate to various matters, including projections of future revenues, non-GAAP measures, expenses and expense allocation; our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with employees, including key brokers, and clients; the amount of goodwill and intangibles; and other unforeseen compliance, financial and strategic risks. Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation is one of our key assets.  We advise our clients on and provide services related to a wide range of subjects and our ability to attract and retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our expertise, level of service, ability to protect client information, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition and other subjective qualities such as ethics, culture and values.  Our success is also dependent on maintaining a good reputation with existing and potential employees, investors, regulators and the communities in which we operate.  Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters, including our association with clients or business partners with damaged reputations, or from actual or alleged conduct by us or our employees, including corruption or bribery allegations (for example, those in connection with the previously-disclosed investigation of our business in Ecuador) or cybersecurity incidents (for example, as disclosed in previous filings, we experienced a ransomware attack in 2020) could damage our reputation.  Negative publicity resulting from one of our marketing partnerships (for example, with a sports team or league) could damage our brand and/or our reputation.  Our reputation could also be harmed by negative perceptions or publicity regarding sustainability or ESG matters, including concerns with environmental, climate change, workforce diversity, political spending, pay equity, harassment, racial justice, cybersecurity and data privacy matters, as well as backlash against sustainability or ESG initiatives generally.  Negative publicity may be posted on social media or other Internet forums, whether or not true, and the speed and pervasiveness with which information can be disseminated through these channels, in particular social media, may magnify the risks noted above.  Any resulting erosion of trust and confidence could make it difficult for us to attract and retain clients, employees or investors; result in lower ESG ratings, exclusion of our stock from ESG-oriented indices, and reduced demand for our stock from ESG-focused investment funds; increase our cost of borrowing; or harm our relationships with regulators and the communities in which we operate.  Any of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  As we venture into new jurisdictions and markets globally, negative reputational events (whether arising from regulatory matters or otherwise) may have a disproportionate impact in locations or markets where our employee and client presence is limited.  Any negative publicity could potentially hinder our growth prospects in such locations or markets.  See below for additional risk factors regarding climate change and ESG initiatives and disclosures. Our ESG-related aspirations, goals and initiatives, and our statements and disclosures regarding ESG-related matters, expose us to numerous risks. The increased focus on ESG issues has made compliance with regulations, frameworks and stakeholder expectations increasingly complex.  Our business faces increased scrutiny from the investment community, clients, employees, potential acquisition targets, regulators and other stakeholders related to our ESG activities.  This includes scrutiny regarding our goal to reach Net Zero carbon emissions in our direct operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 2050 and our interim goal of 50% reduction in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions, on a per employee basis, by 2030.  We anticipate the same level of scrutiny with respect to any other goals, targets and objectives we may announce in the future, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them.  Heightened scrutiny has increased the risk that we could be perceived as, or accused of, making inaccurate or misleading statements, commonly referred to as “greenwashing.”  If our ESG practices and disclosures do not comply with regulations or align with stakeholder expectations and standards, which are continuously evolving, our reputation, our ability to attract or retain employees and our attractiveness as an investment, business partner or as an acquirer could be negatively impacted.  Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our goals, targets and objectives, to comply with ethical, environmental or other standards, regulations or expectations or to satisfy various reporting standards with respect to these matters, could have the same negative impacts, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation.  See also “We are subject 14 to regulation worldwide.  If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if regulations change in a way that adversely affects our operations, we may not be able to conduct our business, or we may be less profitable.” If we are unable to apply technology and data analytics effectively in driving value for our clients through technology-based solutions or gain internal efficiencies and effective internal controls through the application of technology and related tools, our operating results, client relationships, growth and compliance programs could be adversely affected. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond effectively to the risks and opportunities presented by digital disruption, “big data” and data analytics, AI and other developments in technology.  These may include new applications or insurance-related services based on AI (e.g., generative AI, machine learning), robotics, blockchain, the metaverse or new approaches to data mining that impact the nature of how we generate revenue.  We may be exposed to competitive risks related to the adoption and application of new technologies by established market participants (for example, through disintermediation or use of the metaverse) or new entrants such as technology companies, “Insurtech” start-up companies, and others.  These new entrants are focused on using technology and innovation in an attempt to simplify and improve the client exp eri ence, increase efficiencies, alter business models and effect other potentially disruptive changes in the industries in which we operate.  We must also develop and implement technology solutions and technical expertise among our employees that anticipate and keep pace with rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards, client preferences and internal control standards.  We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments on a timely and cost-effective basis and our ideas may not be accepted in the marketplace.  Additionally, the effort to gain technological expertise, make use of data analytics, and develop new technologies in our business requires us to incur significant expenses.  Investments in technology systems and data analytics capabilities may not deliver the benefits or perform as expected, or may be replaced or become obsolete more quickly than expected, which could result in operational difficulties or additional costs.  If we cannot offer new technologies or data analytics solutions as quickly as our competitors, or if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies, data analytics solutions or other product offerings, we could experience a material adverse effect on our operating results, client relationships, growth, and compliance programs. In some cases, we depend on key third-party vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives.  If these third parties fail to perform their obligations or cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected.  See also “We are subject to risks associated with AI.” We are subject to risks associated with AI. We use AI in our business, including with respect to services provided to our clients.  We have internal policies governing the use of AI by our employees designed to protect the company from breaches of data privacy, E&O liability and regulatory enforcement risk; however, our employees could violate these policies and expose us to such risks.  Furthermore, our exposure to these risks may increase if our vendors, suppliers, or other third-party providers employ AI in relation to the products or services they provide to us, as we have limited control over such use in third-party products or services.  These risks include, among others, the input of confidential information, including material non-public information, in contravention of our policies or contractual restrictions to which any of the foregoing are subject, or in violation of applicable laws or regulations, including those relating to data protection.  This could result in such information becoming part of a dataset that is accessible by other third-party AI applications and users. Additionally, AI heavily relies on the collection and analysis of extensive data sets.  Due to the impracticality of incorporating all relevant data into the models used by AI, it is inevitable that data sets within these models will contain inaccuracies and errors, and potential biases.  This could potentially render such models inadequate or flawed, negatively impacting the effectiveness of the technology.  We are exposed to the risks associated with these inaccuracies, errors and biases, along with the adverse impacts that such flawed models could have on our business and operations.  Furthermore, governance and ethical issues relating to the use of AI may also result in reputational harm and liability. AI and its applications are developing rapidly.  The use of this technology by our competitors may give them a competitive advantage that cannot be predicted at this time, and it may negatively affect our assumptions regarding the competitive landscape of our business.  Consequently, it is difficult to predict all risks associated with this new technology, which may eventually impact our business, results of operations, or financial condition.  See also “Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations, or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business and financial results.” Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain qualified talent, including our senior management team. We depend upon members of our senior management team, who possess extensive knowledge and a deep understanding of our business and strategy.  We could be adversely affected if we fail to successfully execute our succession plans for these leaders, including our chief executive officer, and if our succession plans are not well-received by our employees and trading partners.  We could also be adversely affected if we fail to attract and retain talent and foster a diverse and inclusive workplace throughout our organization.  Competition for talent is intense in many areas of our business, particularly in our claims management business, IT and in rapidly developing fields such as AI and data engineering.  Furthermore, the increased availability of remote 15 working arrangements has expanded the pool of companies that compete with us for talent.  As competition for skilled professionals remains intense, employers are implementing new offerings to attract talent, including but not limited to increasing compensation, enhancing health and wellness solutions, and providing in-office and remote work options.  We may have to devote significant resources to attract and retain talent, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our industry has experienced competition for leading brokers and in the past we have lost key brokers and groups of brokers, along with their clients, business relationships and intellectual property directly to our competition.  We enter into agreements with many of our brokers and significant client-facing employees and all of our executive officers, which prohibit them from disclosing confidential information and/or soliciting our clients, prospects and employees upon their termination of employment.  The confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions of such agreements terminate in the event of a hostile change in control, as defined in the agreements.  Although we pursue legal actions for alleged breaches of non-compete or other restrictive covenants, theft of trade secrets, breaches of fiduciary duties, intellectual property infringement and related causes of action, such legal actions may not be effective in preventing such breaches, theft or infringement.  In certain cases, our competitors have solicited employees in violation of their employment agreements as a matter of standard business practice, apparently determining that the cost of defending litigation is outweighed by the benefits of acquiring our employees in this manner.  In addition, the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has proposed a rule that would prevent employers from entering into non-competes with employees and require employers to rescind existing non-competes.  Furthermore, certain states like Minnesota, North Dakota and Oklahoma have implemented comparable or more stringent regulations, while California has broadened the scope of its longstanding restrictions on non-competes.  If this rule goes into effect, more states adopt similar rules or if we fail to adequately address any of the issues referred to above, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  See also “The substantial increase in remote work among our employees subjects us to certain challenges and risks” below. The substantial increase in remote work among our employees subjects us to certain challenges and risks. Many of our employees now work from home on a full- or part-time basis.  Remote work for some of our employees could affect their productivity, including due to a lower level of oversight, distractions and disruptions due to caregiving obligations or slower or unreliable Internet access.  Remote work may also make some employees feel detached from colleagues and the organization.  In some cases, this may make them more vulnerable to solicitations by competing firms.  In addition, our increased reliance on work-from-home technologies and our employees’ more frequent use of personal devices and non-standard business processing may increase the risk of cybersecurity or data breaches from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, “phishing” attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions. The increased prevalence of remote work among our employees may also subject us to other challenges and risks.  For example, our hybrid work environment may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain personnel who prefer a fully remote or fully in-person work environment.  Operating our business with both remote and in-person workers, or workers who work on flexible schedules, could have a negative impact on our corporate culture, decrease the ability of our employees to collaborate and communicate effectively, decrease the ability of newer production and support staff to learn client-handling and other key skills informally around the office, decrease innovation and productivity, or negatively affect employee morale. Business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operations, damage our reputation and impact client relationships. Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business.  This includes infrastructure controlled by third-party vendors and suppliers.  Such disruptions could be caused by various factors, such as cybersecurity incidents (for example, as disclosed in previous filings, we experienced a ransomware attack in 2020), security breaches, human error, capacity constraints, hardware failures or defects, natural disasters, climate and weather events, pandemics, fires, power outages, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, civil disruption, political violence and unrest, or war.  While we have disaster recovery procedures in place, they may not be effective.  Additionally, insurance may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all potential losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients or increase in claims and lawsuits directed against us.  Further, because we do not control infrastructure owned by third parties, we cannot guarantee that such parties have effective recovery procedures, or sufficient funds or insurance to recover any damages, losses or other liabilities that we may incur due to business interruptions caused by disruptions to their infrastructure. The risk of business disruption is more pronounced in certain geographic areas where a significant portion of our business is concentrated.  For example, we have substantial operations in India that provide important client support and other back-office services for our global organization.  To date, the dispute between India and Pakistan involving the Kashmir region, rising tensions between India and China, incidents of terrorism in India, the potential for civil unrest and general geopolitical uncertainties have not adversely affected our operations in India.  However, such factors could potentially affect our operations 16 there in the future.  If our access to these services is disrupted, our client relationships could be harmed, our liability for E&O could increase, and our reputation could be damaged, causing our business, operating results and financial condition to be adversely affected. Sustained increases in compensation expense and the cost of employee benefits could reduce our profitability. Compensation expense and the cost of current employees’ medical and other benefits, substantially affects our profitability.  In the past, we have occasionally experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including wage inflation, increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates and actuarial assumptions used to calculate pension and related liabilities.  Our compensation expense ratio in 2023 as a percent of total revenue remained the same as in 2022 at 56%.  A significant decrease in the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets, changes to actuarial assumptions used to determine pension plan liabilities, or decreases in the interest rates used to discount the pension plan’s liabilities could cause an increase in pension plan costs in future years.  Although we have actively sought to control increases in compensation expense and the cost of employee benefits, we can make no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could reduce our profitability. Our substantial operations outside the U.S. expose us to risks different than those we face in the U.S. In 2023, we generated approximately 36% of our combined brokerage and risk management revenues outside the U.S.  Our business outside the U.S. presents operational, economic and other risks that are different from, or greater than, the risks we face doing comparable business in the U.S.  These include, among others, risks relating to: • Maintaining awareness of and complying with a wide variety of labor practices and foreign laws, including those relating to labor and employment, data privacy requirements, AI prohibitions on corrupt payments to government officials, export and import duties, environmental policies, sustainability disclosures, as well as laws and regulations applicable to U.S. business operations abroad.  We are subject to the risk that we, our employees, our agents, or our affiliated entities, or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents, take actions determined to be in violation of any of these laws, regulations or policies, for which we might be held responsible.  Actual or alleged violations could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives.   While we believe that relations with work councils and trade unions in these countries are and will continue to be satisfactory, work stoppages could occur and we may not be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements.  In addition, collective bargaining negotiations may (1) result in significant increases in the cost of labor, (2) divert management’s attention away from operating the business or (3) break down and result in the disruption of operations.  The occurrence of any of the preceding conditions could result in increased costs and impair our ability to operate our business.  These and other international regulatory risks and labor related risks are described below under “Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks”; • We own interests in firms where we do not exercise management control (such as Casanueva Perez S.A.P.I. de C.V. in Mexico and Renomia, A.S. in the Czech Republic) and are therefore unable to direct or manage the business to realize the anticipated benefits, including mitigation of risks, that could be achieved through full ownership; • The potential costs, difficulties and risks associated with local regulations across the globe, including the risk of personal liability for directors and officers (for example, in the U.K.) and “piercing the corporate veil” risks under the corporate law regimes of certain countries; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations.  For example, we are growing our Latin American operations through acquisitions of local family-owned insurance brokerage firms.  If we lose a local key employee, hiring and retaining talent locally or finding an internal candidate qualified to transfer to such location could be difficult; • Less flexible employee relationships, which in certain circumstances has limited our ability to prohibit employees from competing with us after they are no longer employed with us or recover damages, and made it more difficult and expensive to terminate their employment; • Some of our foreign subsidiaries receive revenues or incur obligations in currencies that differ from their functional currencies.  We must also translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars.  Although we 17 have used foreign currency hedging strategies in the past and currently have some in place, such risks cannot be eliminated entirely, and significant changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations; • Conflicting regulations in the countries in which we do business; • Political and economic instability (including risks relating to undeveloped or evolving legal systems, unstable governments, acts of terrorism and outbreaks of war, including between Russia and Ukraine, and in the Middle East); • Coordinating our communications, policies and logistics across geographic distances, multiple time zones and in different languages, including during times of crisis management; • Risks relating to our post-Brexit plan to address the loss of passporting rights between the U.K. and EU with respect to insurance brokerage services.  Our plan (implemented in September 2020) involved transferring the European Economic Area (EEA) clients of our U.K.-based regulated entities to a Swedish subsidiary authorized in the EEA, and providing some services through a U.K. branch of such subsidiary.  Although this “reverse branch” model is typical of other brokers of a similar size, EU regulators continue to assess their approach to this model, including as a result of, among other developments, the supervisory statement issued by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) in February 2023.  While we are continuously assessing the impact of these developments, it is difficult to predict such impact on our current plan; • Unfavorable audits and exposure to additional liabilities relating to various non-income taxes (such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes) in foreign jurisdictions.  In addition, our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, discriminatory or confiscatory taxation, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation and the financial results of our international subsidiaries.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (which we refer to as the OECD) continues to issue reports and recommendations as part of its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (which we refer to as BEPS), and in response many countries in which we do business have adopted, or are expected to adopt, rules which will change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined.  For example, the majority of EU countries and the U.K. have incorporated some elements of BEPS Pillar 2 into their national laws.  Other countries in which we have significant operations, such as Australia and Canada, have either announced an intention to adopt it or started the process of doing so.  Additionally, other jurisdictions in which we do business are also reacting to these efforts; for example, Bermuda enacted a corporate tax regime for the first time in 2023.  We anticipate further significant developments across several jurisdictions in which we operate in 2024 and 2025; • Legal or political constraints on our ability to maintain or increase prices; • Cash balances held in foreign banks and institutions where governments have not specifically enacted formal guarantee programs; • Epidemics or pandemics at a regional or global level; • Lost business or other financial harm due to protectionism in the U.S. and in countries around the world, including adverse trade policies, governmental actions affecting the flow of goods, services and currency, and governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds to us from our operations outside the U.S.; and • The trade and military policies of the U.S. government could further develop in ways that exacerbate the risks described above, or introduce new risks for our international operations. If any of these risks materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Changes in tax laws could adversely affect us. We operate in various jurisdictions and are subject to changes in applicable tax laws, treaties, or regulations in those jurisdictions.  A material change in the tax laws, treaties, or regulations, or their interpretation, of any jurisdiction with which we do business, or in which we have significant operations, could adversely affect us.  For example, in October 2021, the OECD announced that 136 countries and tax jurisdictions have agreed to implement a new Pillar 2 approach to international taxation.  The first detailed draft rules under that approach were published in December 2021.  The U.K. and the majority of the EU have adopted some aspects of these rules.  Other countries in which we have significant operations, including Australia and Canada, have announced an intention to adopt it or started the process of doing so.  The new approach came into effect in 2023 in certain jurisdictions, and different countries have implemented the necessary rules in different ways, through their individual agreement to tax treaty changes and through changes to their own domestic tax laws.  Pillar 1 exempts regulated financial institutions and we believe we qualify for such exemption.  Pillar 2 will establish a global minimum tax rate of 15%, such that multinational 18 enterprises with an effective tax rate in a jurisdiction below this minimum rate will need to pay additional tax, which could be collected by the parent company’s tax authorities if that parent country adopts Pillar 2 or by those in other countries, depending on whether and how each country implements the OECD’s approach in its tax treaties and domestic tax legislation.  Depending on how the jurisdictions in which we operate, and those in which we and our subsidiaries are based, choose to implement the OECD’s approach in their tax treaties and domestic tax laws, particularly if the U.S. does not adopt Pillar 2, we could be adversely affected due to our income being taxed at higher effective rates, once these new rules come into force. We face significant competitive pressures in each of our businesses. The insurance brokerage, reinsurance brokerage and employee benefit consulting businesses are highly competitive and many insurance brokerage, reinsurance brokerage and employee benefit consulting organizations actively compete with us in one or more areas of our business around the world.  Two of the firms we compete with in the global brokerage and risk management markets have larger revenues than ours.  In addition, many other smaller firms that operate nationally or that are strong in a particular country, region or locality may have, in that country, region or locality, an office with revenues as large as or larger than those of our corresponding local office.  Our third party claims administration operation also faces significant competition from stand-alone firms as well as divisions of larger firms.  Over the past decade or more, private equity sponsors have invested heavily in the insurance brokerage and third party claims administration industries, creating new competitors and strengthening existing ones.  Across all of our operations, Insurtech and technology-based start-ups are entering the business.  In most cases, these businesses complement or enhance our offerings, but in some cases, they compete with us. We believe that the primary factors determining our competitive position with other organizations in our industry are the quality of the services we render, the personalized attention we provide, the individual and corporate expertise of the brokers and consultants providing the actual service to the client, our data and analytics capabilities, and our ability to help our clients manage their overall risk exposure and insurance or reinsurance costs.  Losing business to competitors offering similar services or products at a lower cost or having other competitive advantages would adversely affect our business. Consolidation among our existing competitors could create additional competitive pressure on us as such firms grow their market share, take advantage of strategic and operational synergies and develop lower cost structures.  In addition, any increase in competition due to new legislative or industry developments could adversely affect us. These developments include: • Increased capital-raising by underwriting enterprises, which could result in new risk-taking capital in the industry, which in turn may lead to lower insurance premiums and commissions; • Underwriting enterprises selling insurance directly to insureds without the involvement of a broker or other intermediary; • Changes in our business compensation model as a result of regulatory developments; • Federal and state governments establishing programs to provide health insurance (such as a single-payer system) or, in certain cases, property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other alternative market types of coverage, that compete with, or completely replace, insurance products currently offered by underwriting enterprises; • Climate-change regulation in the U.S. and around the world moving us toward a low-carbon economy, which could create new competitive pressures around climate resilience consulting services and innovative insurance solutions; • Continued consolidation in the financial services industry, leading to larger financial services institutions offering a wider variety of services including insurance brokerage and risk management services; • Increased competition from new market participants such as banks, accounting firms, consulting firms and Internet or other technology firms offering risk management or insurance brokerage services, or new distribution channels for insurance such as payroll firms and professional employer organizations; and • Third party capital providers have entered the insurance and reinsurance risk transfer market offering products and capital directly to our clients.  Their presence in the market increases the competitive pressures that we face. New competition as a result of these or other legislative or industry developments could cause the demand for our products and services to decrease, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Volatility or declines in premiums or other adverse trends in the insurance industry may seriously undermine our profitability. We derive much of our revenue from commissions and fees for our brokerage services.  We do not determine the premiums on which our commissions are generally based.  Moreover, premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market 19 conditions.  Because of market cycles for insurance and reinsurance product pricing, which we cannot predict or control, our brokerage revenues and profitability can be volatile or remain depressed for significant periods of time. As underwriting enterprises continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to non-affiliated brokers or agents such as us, those companies may seek to further minimize their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to agents or brokers.  The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly affect our profitability.  Because we do not determine the timing or extent of premium pricing changes, it is difficult to forecast our commission revenues precisely, including whether they will significantly decline.  As a result, we may have to adjust our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, dividend payments, debt repayments and other expenditures to account for unexpected changes in revenues, and any decreases in premium rates may adversely affect the results of our operations. In addition, there have been and may continue to be various trends in the insurance and reinsurance markets toward alternative insurance markets including, among other things, greater levels of self-insurance, captives, rent-a-captives, risk retention groups and non-insurance capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance.  While historically we have been able to participate in certain of these activities on behalf of our clients and obtain fee revenue for such services, there can be no assurance that we will realize revenues and profitability as favorable as those realized from our traditional brokerage activities.  Our ability to generate premium based commission revenue may also be challenged by the growing desire of some clients to compensate brokers based upon flat fees rather than a percentage of premium.  This could negatively impact us because fees are generally not indexed for inflation and might not increase with premiums as commissions do or with the level of service provided. Contingent and supplemental revenues we receive from underwriting enterprises are less predictable than standard commission revenues, and any decrease in the amount of these forms of revenue could adversely affect our results of operations. A meaningful portion of our revenues consists of contingent and supplemental revenues from underwriting enterprises.  Contingent revenues are paid after the insurance contract period, generally in the first or second quarter, based on the growth and/or profitability of business we placed with an underwriting enterprise during the prior year.  On the other hand, supplemental revenues are paid up front, on an annual or quarterly basis, generally based on our historical premium volumes with the underwriting enterprise and additional capabilities or services we bring to the engagement.  While underwriting enterprises generally maintain supplemental revenues in the current year at a pre-determined rate, that rate can change in future years as described above.  If, due to the current economic environment or for any other reason, we are unable to meet an underwriting enterprise’s particular profitability, volume or growth thresholds, as the case may be, or such companies increase their estimate of loss reserves (over which we have no control), actual contingent revenues or supplemental revenues could be less than anticipated, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  In the case of contingent revenues, under revenue recognition accounting standards, this could lead to the reversal of revenues in future periods that were recognized in prior periods. We face a variety of risks in our benefit consulting operations distinct from those we face in our insurance brokerage operations. Our benefit consulting operations face a variety of risks distinct from those faced by our brokerage operations.  The portion of our revenue derived from consulting engagements and special project work is more vulnerable to reduction, postponement, cancellation or non-renewal during an economic downturn than traditional insurance brokerage commissions. For instance, we experienced a decline in such revenue during the economic downturn triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic.  In the event of a future recession or economic downturn, we could again experience deterioration in these sources of revenue.  A portion of our benefit consulting operation revenue is tied to assets invested by our clients, and when investment returns are adversely affected that portion of our revenue is negatively impacted.  Certain areas within our retirement consulting practice may attract a higher level of regulatory scrutiny due to regulators’ historical interest in such matters, including pension-related products and investment advisory and broker-dealer services.  In addition, we have made significant investments in product and knowledge development to assist clients as they navigate the complex regulatory requirements relating to employer-sponsored healthcare.  New laws or regulations reducing employer-sponsored health insurance, by limiting or eliminating tax-advantaged employer-sponsored benefits or otherwise, could impact clients’ demand for our services.  If we are unable to adapt our services to changes in the legal and regulatory landscape around employer-sponsored benefits, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We closed the acquisition of Buck in April 2023.  Buck is the largest acquisition in the history of our benefit consulting operations and represents a material portion of its revenue.  As such, the integration of Buck into our existing operations requires 20 a more significant effort and involves additional risks compared to our typical acquisitions.  See also “We face additional risks relating to acquisitions that are larger than our usual tuck-in acquisitions” described above. We face a variety of risks in our third-party claims administration operations that are distinct from those we face in our brokerage and benefit consulting operations. Our third party claims administration operations face a variety of risks distinct from those faced by the rest of our business, including the risks that: • Epidemics and pandemics that reduce in-person business activity have a greater negative impact because they result in a reduction in the number of claims processed, as experienced during the years 2020, 2021, and the beginning of 2022.  If a new epidemic or pandemic were to emerge, these operations could face similar negative impacts in the future; • RISX-FACS®, our proprietary risk management information system, on which our ability to provide clients with insurance claim settlement and administration services is highly dependent, becomes inoperable for some reason.  In addition, we are increasing our use of cloud storage and cloud computing application services supported, upgraded and maintained by third-party vendors.  A disruption affecting RISX-FACS®, third-party cloud services or any other infrastructure supporting our business, including key client relationship management software, could have a material adverse effect on our operations, cause reputational harm and damage our employee and client relationships; • The favorable trend among both underwriting enterprises and self-insured entities toward outsourcing various types of claims administration and risk management services will reverse or slow, causing our revenues or revenue growth to decline; • Concentration of large amounts of revenue with certain clients results in greater exposure to the potential negative effects of lost business due to changes in management at such clients or changes in state government policies, in the case of our government-entity clients, or for other reasons; • Contracting terms will become less favorable or the margins on our services will decrease due to increased competition, regulatory constraints or other developments; • We do not satisfy regulatory requirements related to third party administrators or regulatory developments, including those relating to security, cybersecurity and data privacy as we manage a large amount of highly sensitive and confidential information including personally identifiable information, protected health information and financial information, will impose additional burdens, costs or business restrictions that make our business less profitable; • Volatility in our case volumes, which are dependent upon a number of factors and difficult to forecast accurately, could impact our revenues; • Wage inflation, difficulty attracting and retaining talent, and rising technology costs, all of which have been challenging to control since 2020, may impact our ability to remain competitive in the marketplace and profitably fulfill our existing contracts (other than those that provide cost-plus or other margin protection); • We may be unable to develop further efficiencies in our claims-handling business and may be unable to obtain or retain certain clients if we fail to make adequate improvements in technology or operations; and • Underwriting enterprises or certain large self-insured entities may create in-house servicing capabilities that compete with our third party administration and other administration, servicing and risk management products, and we could face additional competition from potential new entrants into the global claims management services market. If any of these risks materialize, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Climate risks, including the risk of an economic crisis, risks associated with the physical effects of climate change and disruptions caused by the transition to a low-carbon economy, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Climate change has been widely identified by investors and regulators as a systemic risk to the global economy.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has warned that a gradual change in investor sentiment regarding climate risk introduces the possibility of abrupt tipping points or significant swings in sentiment, which could create unpredictable follow-on effects in financial markets.  If this occurred, not only would our business be negatively impacted by the general economic decline, but a drop in the stock 21 market affecting our stock price could negatively impact our ability to grow through mergers and acquisitions financed using our common stock. The transition to a low-carbon economy could harm specific industries or sectors such as oil and gas in ways that could impact our business.  Our clients in such industries could go out of business or have reduced needs for insurance-related or consulting services, which could adversely impact our commission revenues, consulting revenues or revenues from managing third-party insurance claims.  Negative publicity arising from our association with clients in disfavored businesses or industries, or the perception that we are not sufficiently focused on climate risks facing Gallagher or on reducing our own carbon emissions, as well as resulting from the potential conflict with anti-ESG initiatives from certain U.S. state governments and other stakeholders, could damage our reputation with investors, clients, employees and regulators.  In addition, the transition to a low-carbon economy could give rise to the need for innovative insurance, reinsurance and risk management solutions for entirely new industries and companies, as well as advice and services to bolster climate resilience for existing companies.  If we fail to innovate and provide valuable services to our clients in response to these changes, we could lose market share to our competitors or new market entrants that do. We do not generally assume net underwriting risk, other than with respect to de minimis amounts necessary to provide minimum or regulatory capital, and briefly, in connection with our catastrophe bond business, and thus do not generally experience direct material financial implications related to extreme weather events.  In addition, we are a professional services firm with people as our most important asset and limited physical operations.  However, in cases where underwriting enterprises fail or face significant payouts related to extreme weather events leading them to withdraw from offering certain lines of coverage, as observed in places such as California, Louisiana, and Florida, such withdrawal negatively impacts the overall capacity for risk-taking capital.  If this reduction is substantial, it could limit our ability to secure certain lines of coverage for our clients, ultimately reducing our revenues and profitability.  Underwriting enterprises are also clients of Gallagher Re, so any of the negative developments for underwriting enterprises referred to above could also reduce our commission revenues from such clients. Regulatory, Legal and Accounting Risks Improper disclosure of confidential, personal or proprietary information and cybersecurity attacks or other security breach of our information systems, or those of third-party vendors we rely on, could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability or reputational harm, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and reputation. We collect, use, store, transmit and otherwise process, confidential, personal and proprietary information relating to our company, acquisition targets, our employees and our clients.  This information includes personally identifiable information, protected health information, financial information and intellectual property. We maintain policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of confidential, personal and proprietary information.  Nonetheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error, malfeasance or highly sophisticated cyber-attacks, which are heightened as a result of the war in Ukraine and in the Middle East or other cybersecurity incidents.  It is possible that our security controls, employee training and other aspects of our cybersecurity safeguards are not effective.  See “The substantial increase in remote work among our employees subjects us to certain challenges and risks” above for a discussion of how remote work enhances these risks. We have and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, policies, resources and employee training.  The cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing appropriate technical measures is high.  Given the continuously evolving cyber threat landscape, it will become increasingly difficult to detect, defend against and remediate cybersecurity incidents and data breaches.  If we are unable to effectively maintain and enhance our system safeguards in line with evolving cyber threats, including in connection with the integration of acquisitions, we may incur unexpected costs, including litigation costs, regulatory enforcement action, loss of clients, reputational damage, and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to unauthorized access. We rely on IT and third party vendors to support our business activities, including our secure processing of personal, confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information.  Despite ongoing efforts to improve our and our vendors’ ability to protect and defend against cyber-attacks, we may not be able to protect all of our data.  Cybersecurity incidents and data breaches of certain systems on which we rely have occurred, such as the ransomware incident that occurred in 2020 (as disclosed in previous filings), and we also have from time to time experienced other cybersecurity incidents such as computer viruses, unauthorized parties gaining access to our information technology systems, and privacy incidents, such as loss or inadvertent transmission of data, although to date we have not been materially impacted by such events.  In the future, breaches of any third-party or internal systems may result from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service, hacking, “phishing”, 22 computer viruses, ransomware, malware, or other cyber-attacks, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions.  Furthermore, the risk from threat actors has increased due to the rapid development of AI capabilities. We are an acquisitive organization.  The process of integrating information systems of businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk as we might not adequately identify weaknesses in the targets’ information systems or information handling, privacy and security policies and protocols, which could expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems and data more vulnerable to cybersecurity incidents.  Any future, material cybersecurity or data incident, may cause us to experience unauthorized access, exfiltration, manipulation, corruption, loss or disclosure of our proprietary, client, employee, or other data, reputational harm, the inability to render services due to system outages or other business disruptions, loss of clients and revenue, regulatory action and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard clients’ information, increases in cybersecurity costs or financial losses.  Any of the foregoing may be exacerbated by a delay or failure to detect a cybersecurity incident or the full extent of such incident.  In addition, disclosure or media reports of actual or perceived security vulnerabilities to our systems or those of our third-party service providers, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could lead to reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, or increased regulatory actions oversight and scrutiny. Such incidents could result in confidential, personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, used to perpetuate fraud, maliciously made public, surreptitiously modified, or rendered inaccessible for a period of time.  We cannot ensure that any limitations of liability provisions in our agreements with clients, vendors and other third parties with which we do business would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any liability with respect to claims arising from a cybersecurity, data or similar incident. As we experienced in connection with the 2020 ransomware incident referred to above, during a cybersecurity incident, we might have to take our systems offline, which could interfere with services to our clients or damage our reputation.  While we endeavor to design and implement technologies, policies and procedures to identify such incidents as quickly as possible, any response would take substantial time, and there may be extensive delays before we obtain full and reliable information.  During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all of which may further increase the costs and consequences of such incident.  Any of these losses may not be insured against or be fully covered by insurance we maintain. In addition, the competition for talent is high in the cybersecurity and privacy space, and we may not be able to hire, develop or retain suitable talent that we need to be capable of minimizing, identifying, mitigating or remediating these risks. With respect to our commercial arrangements with third party vendors, we have processes designed to require third party IT outsourcing, offsite storage and other vendors to agree to maintain certain standards with respect to their storage, protection and transfer of confidential, personal and proprietary information.  However, we remain at risk of a cyber or data incident due to the intentional or unintentional non-compliance by a vendor’s employee or agent, the breakdown of a vendor’s processes, or a cybersecurity incident involving vendor’s information systems.  We cannot ensure that any provisions in our agreements with these vendors would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any liability in connection with these incidents. Any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and reputation. We are subject to a number of contingencies and legal proceedings which, if determined unfavorably to us, would adversely affect our financial results. We are or have been subject to numerous claims, tax assessments, lawsuits and proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business.  Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings include claims for damages based on allegations that our employees or sub-agents improperly failed to procure coverage, report claims on behalf of clients, provide underwriting enterprises with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured, or provide clients with appropriate consulting, advisory, pension and claims handling services.  There is the risk that our employees or sub-agents may fail to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis.  Certain of our benefits and retirement consultants provide investment advisory or decision-making services to clients.  Additionally, Gallagher Re operates a securities business.  If our clients experience investment losses, our reputation could be damaged and our financial results could be negatively affected as a result of claims asserted against us and lost business.  Where appropriate, we have established provisions against these matters that we believe are adequate in light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time based on current material developments.  The damages claimed in such matters are or may be substantial, including, in many instances, claims for punitive, treble or other extraordinary damages.  It is possible that, if the outcomes of these contingencies and legal proceedings 23 were not favorable to us, it could materially adversely affect our future financial results.  In addition, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if, in the future, our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or we experience an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure.  We have purchased E&O insurance and other insurance to provide protection against losses that arise in such matters.  Accruals for these items, net of insurance receivables, when applicable, have been provided to the extent that losses are deemed probable and are reasonably estimable.  These accruals and receivables are adjusted from time to time as current developments warrant. As more fully described in Note 17 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements, we are a defendant in various legal actions incidental to our business, including but not limited to matters related to employment practices, alleged breaches of non-compete or other restrictive covenants, theft of trade secrets, breaches of fiduciary duties, intellectual property infringement and related causes of action.  We are also periodically the subject of inquiries and investigations by regulatory and taxing authorities into various matters related to our business.  For example, our micro-captive advisory services business has been under investigation by the IRS since 2013.  We currently believe that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  However, legal proceedings and government investigations are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or other adverse events could occur, including the payment of substantial monetary damages or an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways, precluding particular business practices or requiring other remedies, which may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial position.  In addition, regardless of any unfavorable ruling, any such matter could expose us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources, which could adversely affect our ability to recruit quality brokers and other significant employees to our business, and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in data privacy and protection laws and regulations, or any failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations globally regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, destruction, and security of personal data.  These laws apply to transfers of personal information among our affiliates, as well as to transactions we enter into with third party vendors and clients.  Significant uncertainty exists as privacy and data protection laws evolve and may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and state to state, and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements.  Some of these laws provide rights to individuals to access, correct, and delete their personal information and to obtain copies at the expense of the business entities that process their data.  Some of these laws carry heavy penalties for violations, e.g., fines of up to 4% of worldwide revenue under the U.K. Data Protection Act and the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and up to $7,500 per intentional violation under the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA).  In the U.S., there is pending federal legislation and a number of states have proposed their own comprehensive data privacy bills similar to the GDPR and CCPA, with some of those laws already in effect, and others coming into effect between 2024 and 2026. India and other countries where we have operations outside the U.S. have proposed or have enacted sweeping data protection laws, and in some cases we are subject to sector and personal data localization laws that may require that data or personal data stay within their borders, such as India's IRDIA (Maintenance of Insurance Records) Regulation, 2015. In addition, in the U.S., legislators are continuing to enact comprehensive cybersecurity laws.  For example, we are subject to the New York State Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation for Financial Services Companies, which were substantively amended in 2023.  We also expect to be subject to a variety of laws and regulations governing AI, such as the proposed EU AI Act which is expected to be enacted in 2024.  These laws and regulations are still evolving, and while we are assessing how regulators may apply existing consumer protection, data protection and other similar laws to AI, there is uncertainty regarding the scope of new laws and how existing laws will apply.  Due to this uncertainty, we may face challenges complying with existing and new laws, and our policies and governance frameworks may not be successful in mitigating these risks.  See also “We are subject to risks associated with AI.” Adhering to the increased obligations imposed by various new and emerging laws causes us to incur substantial expenses in connection with developing, implementing, and securing our systems and effectively implementing data privacy governance policies for the lawful processing of personal data.  Such increased obligations also result in the allocation of additional resources towards new privacy compliance processes and enhanced technologies, further contributing to our IT and compliance costs.  In addition, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase.  The enactment of more restrictive laws, rules, regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations 24 could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability. We could be adversely affected by violations or alleged violations of laws that impose requirements for the conduct of our overseas operations, including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act or other anti-corruption laws, sanctions laws and FATCA. In countries outside the U.S., a risk exists that our employees or third parties acting on our behalf, including correspondent brokers, consultants, introducers, partners or agents, could engage in business practices prohibited by applicable laws and regulations, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and sanctions laws such as those administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control.  Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, generally prohibit companies from making improper payments to foreign officials and require companies to keep accurate books and records and maintain appropriate internal controls.  Trade and financial sanctions laws generally restrict the ability to engage in trade with, or provide goods or services, to designated governments or other parties, or may require freezing of such parties’ assets.  We operate in some parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption.  In such parts of the world, in certain circumstances, local customs and practice might not be consistent with the requirements of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws.  Similarly, some of these countries do not implement sanctions laws and may not restrict trade with parties designated as sanctions targets under U.S., U.K. or EU laws. Our policies mandate strict compliance with such laws and we devote substantial resources to programs designed to ensure compliance, including investigating business practices and taking steps to address the risk that our employees, third party representatives, partners or agents will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies and/or such laws and regulations. We offer client service capabilities in many countries around the world through a network of third-party representatives acting on our behalf such as correspondent brokers and consultants.  In certain limited instances, we also work with third-party introducers that provide services for certain clients.  There is a risk that our third party representatives engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies or violate applicable laws and regulations, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act.  As previously disclosed, during 2022, we received a subpoena from the FCPA Unit of the DOJ seeking information related to our insurance business with public entities in Ecuador.  During the fourth quarter of 2023, the DOJ informed us that it has closed its inquiry and would not be pursuing enforcement action against us. Violations by us or our third party representatives could result in significant internal investigation costs and legal fees, civil and criminal penalties, including prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and reputational harm. We may also be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we violate trade sanctions laws of the U.S., the EU and other jurisdictions in which we operate.  In addition, FATCA requires certain of our subsidiaries, affiliates and other entities to obtain valid FATCA documentation from payees prior to remitting certain payments to such payees and our failure to do so properly could result in penalties. We are subject to regulation worldwide.  If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if regulations change in a way that adversely affects our operations, we may not be able to conduct our business, or we may be less profitable. Many of our activities throughout the world, especially regulated businesses such as our insurance brokerage, securities broker-dealer and investment advisory services, are subject to supervision and regulations promulgated by regulatory or self-regulatory bodies such as the SEC, the NYSE, the DOJ, the IRS, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the FTC and FINRA in the U.S., the Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K., the Australian Securities and Investments Commission in Australia and insurance regulators in nearly every jurisdiction in which we operate.  Our retirement-related consulting and investment advisory services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries.  Our activities are also subject to a variety of other laws, rules and regulations addressing licensing, data privacy, AI, wage-and-hour standards, employment and labor relations, competition, anti-corruption, currency, the conduct of business, reserves and the amount of local investment with respect to our operations in certain countries.  For example, the DOJ revised its Corporate Criminal Enforcement Policies and Practices to include a section on the use of personal devices and third-party messaging applications, indicating that their use poses significant risk to companies and suggesting that it intends to investigate seriously whether companies have ensured that data from these sources is preserved for investigations; additionally, the FTC proposed a rule that would prevent employers from entering into non-competes with employees and require employers to rescind existing non-competes.  These and other forms of regulatory action could reduce our profitability or growth by increasing the costs of compliance, increasing the risk of costly enforcement actions, restricting the products or services we sell, the markets we enter, the methods by which we sell our products and services, or the prices we can charge for our services and the form of compensation we can accept from our clients, underwriting 25 enterprises and third parties.  As our operations grow around the world, it is increasingly difficult to monitor and enforce regulatory compliance across the organization.  A compliance failure by even one of our smallest branches could lead to a loss of reputation in the local market, and litigation and/or disciplinary actions that may include compensating clients for loss, the imposition of penalties, and/or the loss of our authorization to operate.  In all such cases, we would also likely incur significant internal investigation costs and legal fees. The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations, including increased staffing needs, the development of new policies, procedures and internal controls and providing training to employees in multiple locations, adding to our cost of doing business.  Many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing further the complexity and cost of compliance.  In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us with adequate assurance that we are aware of all necessary licenses to operate our business, that we are operating our business in a compliant manner, or that our rights are otherwise protected.  In addition, major political and legal developments in jurisdictions in which we do business may lead to new regulatory costs and challenges.  For example, China adopted a “blocking” statute similar to that of the EU requiring compliance with certain Chinese laws if they conflict with U.S. laws.  Rising global tensions and protectionism may also lead other countries to adopt similar blocking statutes, which could make it more difficult and costly for us to expand our operations globally. Changes in legislation or regulations and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and enforcement policies, or the failure of state and local governments to follow through on agreed-upon state and local tax credits or other tax related incentives, could adversely affect our results of operations or require operational changes that could result in lost revenues or higher costs or hinder our ability to operate our business. For example, the method by which insurance brokers are compensated has received substantial scrutiny in the past because of the potential for conflicts of interest.  The potential for conflicts of interest arises when a broker is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions.  The vast majority of the compensation we receive for our work as insurance and reinsurance brokers is in the form of retail commissions and fees.  We receive additional revenue from underwriting enterprises, separate from retail commissions and fees, including, among other things, contingent and supplemental revenues and payments for consulting and analytics services we provide them.  Future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these revenues.  Adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our relationships with clients, underwriting enterprises or other business partners. In addition, as regulators and investors increasingly focus on climate change and other sustainability issues, we are exposed to the risk of frameworks and regulations being adopted that require significant effort to comply with and which are ill-adapted to our operations.  For example, pursuant to the CSRD, in 2023 the first set of EU sustainability reporting standards (which we refer to as ESRS) has been developed by the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group (which we refer to as EFRAG) and adopted by the EU.  EFRAG will continue to issue sector-specific and non-EU applicable ESRS in the coming years, with such standards to be tailored to EU policy positions which may be different or contradictory with those applicable to our business in other jurisdictions.  The CSRD is expected to entail substantial disclosure obligations in future years for us and some of our EU subsidiaries.  The SEC has also proposed new climate change disclosure requirements, which are expected to become effective in 2024.  Additionally, the state of California has enacted disclosure rules similar to the SEC rules, which will become effective between 2024 and 2026.  Furthermore, in the U.K., our business is subject to a number of disclosure obligations under different sustainability frameworks, such as the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures framework; Australia is planning to enact mandatory disclosures based on the International Sustainability Standards Board standards (which we refer to as ISSB) in 2024; and other jurisdictions, such as Canada and Brazil, have also announced that they plan to implement ISSB-based disclosures.  Compliance with such rules and frameworks will require significant effort and could divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our operating results. Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and operating results. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (which we refer to as GAAP).  These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements.  We are also required to make certain judgments and estimates that affect the disclosed and recorded amounts of revenues and expenses related to revenue recognition and deferred costs - see Note 4 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements.  We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, investments, income taxes, revenue recognition, deferred costs, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, litigation and contingencies.  We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we 26 believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances.  Such estimates and assumptions could change in the future as more information becomes known, which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed in our consolidated financial statements.  Further, in August 2022, the U.S. enacted tax legislation commonly referred to as the Inflation Reduction Act (which we refer to as the IRA) which, among other things, implements a corporate book minimum tax and an excise tax on stock buy backs beginning for years after 2022.  While guidance is still being issued, our current understanding of these new rules suggests that we will not face significant impacts from these changes.  As additional guidance relating to the IRA is released, our estimates related to the IRA may change.  Additionally, changes in accounting standards (see Note 2 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements) could increase costs to the organization and could have an adverse impact on our future financial position and results of operations. Limited protection of our intellectual property could harm our business and our ability to compete effectively, and we face the risk that our services or products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We cannot guarantee that trade secret, trademark and copyright law protections, or our internal policies and procedures regarding our management of intellectual property, are adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property.  Existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or products may offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights.  Also, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take the necessary steps to enforce our rights, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  We cannot be sure that our services and products, or the products of others that we offer to our clients, do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, and we may have infringement claims asserted against us or our clients.  These claims may harm our reputation, result in financial liability, consume financial resources to pursue or defend, and prevent us from offering some services or products.  In addition, these claims, whether with or without merit, could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s focus and resources from business operations.  Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Relating to our Investments, Debt and Common Stock Our clean energy investments are subject to various risks and uncertainties. We generated tax credits under IRC Section 45 from 2009 to 2021.  As of December 31, 2023, we had generated a total of $1,706.1 million in IRC Section 45 tax credits, of which approximately $891.4 million have been used to offset U.S. federal tax liabilities and $814.7 million remain unused and available to offset future U.S. federal tax liabilities. Our ability to use tax credits under IRC Section 45 depends upon the operations in which we invested having satisfied the conditions set forth in IRC Section 45.  These include, among others, the “placed-in-service” condition and requirements relating to qualified emissions reductions, coal sales to unrelated parties and at least one of the operations’ owners qualifying as a “producer” of refined coal.  While we have received some degree of confirmation from the IRS relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the IRS could ultimately determine that the operations did not satisfy the conditions set forth in IRC Section 45.  The ongoing implementation of Pillar 2 in the U.S. and around the world could also negatively impact our ability to use these tax credits in the timeframe and manner that would be beneficial to us.  Similarly, the law permitting us to claim IRC Section 29 tax credits (related to our prior synthetic coal operations) expired on December 31, 2007.  At December 31, 2023, we had exposure with respect to $108.0 million of previously earned tax credits under IRC Section 29.  We believe our claim for IRC Section 29 tax credits in 2007 and prior years was in accordance with IRC Section 29 and four private letter rulings previously obtained by IRC Section 29 related limited liability companies in which we had an interest.  We understand these private letter rulings were consistent with those issued to other taxpayers and we have received no indication from the IRS that it will seek to revoke or modify them.  In addition, the IRS audited certain of the IRC Section 29 facilities without requiring any changes. While none of our prior IRC Section 29 operations are currently under audit, two of the IRC Section 45 operations in which we are invested are under audit by the IRS, and it has taken the position that certain losses and tax credits should be disallowed.  We are defending this matter vigorously.  Additionally, one of these partnerships received a notice from the IRS disallowing our co-investors from claiming tax credits.  The partnership defended its position in tax court and prevailed in August 2019.  The decision was affirmed by the D.C. Court of Appeals.  The IRS could place the remaining IRC Section 45 operations and any of the prior IRC Section 29 operations under audit.  An adverse outcome with respect to our ability to claim tax credits under any such audit would likely cause a material loss or cause us to be subject to liability under indemnification obligations related to prior sales of partnership interests in IRC Section 29 tax credits. There is a risk that foreign laws will not protect the intellectual property associated with The Chem-Mod™ Solution to the same extent as U.S. laws, leaving us vulnerable to companies outside the U.S. who may attempt to copy such intellectual property.  In addition, other companies may make claims of intellectual property infringement with respect to The Chem-Mod™ Solution. 27 For example, in July 2019, Midwest Energy Emissions Corp. and MES Inc. (which we refer to together, as Midwest Energy) filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against us, Chem Mod LLC and numerous other related and unrelated parties.  The complaint alleged that the named defendants infringed patents held exclusively by Midwest Energy and sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief.  In 2023, we settled this matter for an amount that was not material and without admitting any wrongdoing.  However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible for us to predict the ultimate outcome of any future claims against us by other parties. The IRC Section 45 operations in which we have invested and the by-products from such operations may result in environmental and product liability claims and environmental compliance costs. The construction and operation of the IRC Section 45 operations were subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety.  Some environmental laws, without regard to fault or the legality of a party’s conduct, impose liability on certain entities that are considered to have contributed to, or are otherwise responsible for, the release or threatened release of hazardous substances into the environment.  One party may, under certain circumstances, be required to bear more than its share or the entire share of investigation and cleanup costs at a site if payments or participation cannot be obtained from other responsible parties.  By having used The Chem‑Mod™ Solution at locations owned and operated by others, we and our partners may be exposed to the risk of  being held liable for environmental damage from releases of hazardous substances we may have had little, if any, involvement in creating.  Such risk remains even after production ceases at an operation to the extent the environmental damage can be traced to the types of chemicals or compounds used or operations conducted in connection with The Chem-Mod™ Solution.  Increasing attention to global climate change has resulted in an increased possibility of regulatory attention and private litigation.  For example, claims have been made against certain energy companies alleging that greenhouse gas emissions constitute a public nuisance.  In addition to the possibility of our being named in such actions, we and our partners could face the risk of environmental and product liability claims related to concrete incorporating fly ash produced using The Chem-Mod™ Solution.  No assurances can be given that contractual arrangements and precautions taken to provide for assumption of these risks by facility owners or operators, or other end users, will result in that facility owner or operator, or other end user, accepting full responsibility for any environmental or product liability claim.  Nor can we or our partners be certain that facility owners or operators, or other end users, fully complied with all applicable laws and regulations, and this could result in environmental or product liability claims.  It is also not uncommon for private claims by third parties alleging contamination to also include claims for personal injury, property damage, nuisance, diminution of property value, or similar claims.  Furthermore, many environmental, health and safety laws authorize citizen suits, permitting third parties to make claims for violations of laws or permits.  Our insurance may not cover all environmental risk and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event of an environmental or product liability claim, and defense of such claims can be costly, even when such defense prevails.  If significant uninsured losses arise from environmental or product liability claims, or if the costs of environmental compliance increase for any reason, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility and subjects us to restrictions and limitations that could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. As of December 31, 2023, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $8.0 billion.  The level of debt outstanding each period could adversely affect our financial flexibility.  We also bear risk at the time our debt matures.  Our ability to make interest and principal payments, to refinance our debt obligations and to fund our acquisition program and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations.  This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, such as an environment of rising interest rates.  A small portion of our private placement debt consists of floating rate notes, and interest payments under our senior revolving credit facility are based on a floating rate which exposes us to the risk of a changing or unknown rate environment.  Our indebtedness will also reduce the ability to use that cash for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to stockholders, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases, and general corporate purposes.  If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, issuing additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, and investments, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business.  Additionally, we may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The agreements governing our debt include covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to dispose of assets, incur additional debt, engage in certain asset sales, mergers, acquisitions or similar transactions, create liens on assets, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, change our business or make investments, and require us to comply with certain financial and legal covenants.  The restrictions in the agreements governing our debt may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business and our stockholders and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted.  We may also incur future debt obligations 28 that might subject us to additional or more restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility, including our ability to pay dividends.  We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all.  A failure to comply with the restrictions under the agreements governing our debt could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions.  The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause our obligations with respect to our debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our reinsurance securities business serves from time to time as the underwriter and initial purchaser of securities (such as catastrophe bonds) issued by our reinsurance company clients.  This involves us, acting as an intermediary, to use our capital on hand and short-term borrowings to cover the purchase price of the securities.  We place the securities with investors and use the funds we receive from them to repay our obligations.  Risks specific to these short-term borrowings include counterparty risk (which is the risk that arises due to uncertainty about a counterparty’s ability to meet its obligations) with respect to the investors.  Non-performance by any of our counterparties in these transactions for financial or other reasons could potentially expose us to material losses. Credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk. If we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to maintain adequate liquidity, fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources.  We would also face the risk of a credit rating downgrade if we do not retire or refinance the debt to levels acceptable to the credit rating agencies in a timely manner.  Further, a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. We are organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries.  As a holding company without significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock and for corporate expenses.  In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and other payments to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock. Further, we derive a meaningful portion of our revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the U.S.  Since the majority of financing obligations as well as dividends to stockholders are paid from the U.S., it is important to be able to access the cash generated by our operating subsidiaries located outside the U.S. in the event we are unable to meet these U.S. based cash requirements. Funds from our operating subsidiaries outside the U.S. may be repatriated to the U.S. via stockholder distributions and intercompany financings, where necessary.  A number of factors may arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or make repatriation cost prohibitive, including, but not limited to the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments and our ability to repatriate earnings in a tax-efficient manner. In the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected. Future sales or other dilution of our equity could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. An important way we grow our business is through acquisitions.  One method of acquiring companies or otherwise funding our corporate activities is through the issuance of additional equity securities.  The issuance of any additional shares of common or of preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock.  Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, performance stock units, options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units or performance stock units vest, our stockholders will experience further dilution.  In November 2022, we established an "at the market" equity offering program (which we refer to as an ATM program) pursuant to which we may offer and sell up to 3,000,000 shares of our common stock.  We have refreshed our ATM program in the past and expect to refresh our ATM program periodically.  Sales under our ATM 29 program will result in additional dilution for our stockholders.  Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our stockholders.  The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of shares of our common stock or the perception that such sales could occur.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Introduction The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8 of this annual report.  In addition, please see “Information Regarding Non-GAAP Measures and Other” beginning on page 38 for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures for adjusted total revenues, organic commission, fee and supplemental revenues and adjusted EBITDAC to the comparable GAAP measures, as well as other important information regarding these measures. We are engaged in providing insurance brokerage, reinsurance brokerage, consulting services, and third-party property/casualty claims settlement and administration services to entities and individuals around the world.  We believe that one of our major strengths is our ability to deliver comprehensively structured insurance and risk management services to our clients.  Our brokers, agents and administrators act as intermediaries between underwriting enterprises and our clients and we do not assume net underwriting risks.  We are headquartered in Rolling Meadows, Illinois, and provide brokerage, risk management and consulting services in approximately 130 countries around the world through our owned operations and a network of correspondent brokers and consultants.  In 2023, we expanded, and expect to continue to expand, our international operations through both acquisitions and organic growth.  We generate approximately 64% of our revenues for the combined brokerage and risk management segments domestically, with the remaining 36% generated internationally, primarily in the Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the U.K. (based on 2023 revenues).  We have three reportable segments: brokerage, risk management and corporate.  Brokerage and risk management contributed approximately 86% and 14%, respectively, to 2023 revenues.  The corporate segment generated revenues from our clean energy investments until 2022, during which we ran-off existing chemical supplies as part of the wind down of such investments’ operations, after our ability to generate additional tax credits from qualified refined coal pursuant to IRC Section 45 ended in December 2021.  Our major sources of operating revenues are commissions, fees and supplemental and contingent revenues from brokerage operations and fees from risk management operations.  Investment income is generated from invested cash and fiduciary funds, clean energy investments (prior to 2022), and revenue from premium financing. Prior Year Discussion of Results and Comparisons For information on fiscal 2022 results and similar comparisons, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. 33 Summary of Financial Results - Year Ended December 31, See the reconciliations of non-GAAP measures on page 36 . In our corporate segment, net after-tax (loss) earnings from our clean energy investments was $(11.5) million and $(9.2) million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  At this time, we anticipate our clean energy investments will produce after-tax losses in 2024. 34 The following provides information that management believes is helpful when comparing revenues before reimbursements, net earnings, EBITDAC and diluted net earnings per share for 2023 and 2022.  In addition, these tables provide reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures for adjusted revenues, adjusted EBITDAC and adjusted diluted net earnings per share.  Reconciliations of EBITDAC for the brokerage and risk management segments are provided on pages 42 and 48 of this filing. * For the year ended December 31, 2023, the pretax impact of the brokerage segment adjustments totals $1,192.0 million, mostly due to non-cash period expenses related to intangible amortization and acquisition earnout payable adjustments, with a corresponding adjustment to the provision for income taxes of $295.6 million relating to these items.  For the year ended December 31, 2023, the pretax impact of the risk management segment adjustments totals $12.2 million, with a corresponding adjustment to the provision for income taxes of $3.3 million relating to these items.  For the year ended December 31, 2023, the pretax impact of the corporate segment adjustments totals $82.6 million, with a corresponding adjustment to the benefit for income taxes of $27.8 million relating to these items and other tax items noted on page 54 .  For the corporate segment, the clean energy related adjustments are described on page 54 . 35 Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Pre-tax Earnings and Diluted Net Earnings per Shar e 36 Acquisition of My Plan Manager, Cadence Insurance, Eastern Insurance and Buck On December 6, 2023, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of My Plan Manager.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire My Plan Manager.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and borrowings under our Credit Agreement (see Financing Cash Flow section below).  The acquired My Plan Manager is the leading provider of plan management services to participants in Australia’s National Disability Insurance Scheme. On November 30, 2023, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Cadence Insurance.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Cadence Insurance.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Cadence Insurance business offers a full suite of commercial property/casualty, employee benefits and personal lines products to clients from 34 offices spanning nine states across the Southeast, including Texas. On October 31, 2023, we acquired the net assets of Eastern Insurance.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Eastern Insurance.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Eastern Insurance business offers comprehensive commercial property/casualty and personal lines products as well as employee benefits consulting to clients throughout the Northeastern U.S. On April 3, 2023 we acquired the partnership interests of Buck.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Buck.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Buck business is a leading provider of retirement, human resource and employee benefits consulting and administration services operating for more than 100 years with a diverse client base by both size and industry.  Immediately prior to closing, Buck had over 2,300 employees, including more than 220 credentialed actuaries, primarily serving customers throughout the U.S., Canada and the U.K. Insurance Market Overview Fluctuations in premiums charged by property/casualty underwriting enterprises have a direct and potentially material impact on the insurance brokerage industry.  Commission revenues are generally based on a percentage of the premiums paid by insureds and normally follow premium levels.  Insurance premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions.  Various factors, including competition for market share among underwriting enterprises, increased underwriting capacity and improved economies of scale following consolidations, can result in flat or reduced property/casualty premium rates (a “soft” market).  A soft market tends to put downward pressure on commission revenues.  Various countervailing factors, such as greater than anticipated loss experience, unexpected loss exposure and capital shortages, can result in increasing property/casualty premium rates (a “hard” market).  A hard market tends to favorably impact commission revenues.  Hard and soft markets may be broad-based or more narrowly focused across individual product lines or geographic areas.  As markets harden, buyers of insurance (such as our brokerage clients), have historically tried to mitigate premium increases and the higher commissions these premiums generate, including by raising their deductibles and/or reducing the overall amount of insurance coverage they purchase.  As the market softens, or costs decrease, these trends have historically reversed.  During a hard market, buyers may switch to negotiated fee in lieu of commission arrangements to compensate us for placing their risks, or may consider the alternative insurance market, which includes self-insurance, captives, rent-a-captives, risk retention groups and capital market solutions to transfer risk.  Our brokerage units are very active in these markets as well.  While increased use by insureds of these alternative markets historically has reduced commission revenue to us, such trends generally have been accompanied by new sales and renewal increases in the areas of risk management, claims management, captive insurance and self-insurance services and related growth in fee revenue.  Inflation tends to increase the levels of insured values and risk exposures, resulting in higher overall premiums and higher commissions.  However, the impact of hard and soft market fluctuations has historically had a greater impact on changes in premium rates, and therefore on our revenues, than inflationary pressures. We use the Council of Insurance Agents & Brokers (which we refer to as the CIAB) insurance pricing quarterly survey as an indicator of the insurance rate environment.  The CIAB represents the leading domestic and international insurance brokers, who write approximately 85% of the commercial property/casualty premiums in the U.S.  The fourth quarter 2023 survey had not been published as of the filing date of this report.  The first three 2023 quarterly surveys indicated that U.S. commercial property/casualty rates increased by 8.8%, 8.9%, and 8.1% on average, for the first, second and third quarters of 2023, respectively.  We expect a similar trend to be noted when the CIAB fourth quarter 2023 survey report is issued, which would indicate overall continued price firming and hardening in most lines of business. 37 We believe increases in property/casualty rates will continue throughout 2024 due to rising loss costs, a hard reinsurance market, increased frequency of catastrophe losses and social inflation.  If loss trends deteriorate over the coming quarters, including due to the impact of natural catastrophes, it could lead to a more difficult rate and conditions environment in certain lines. The combination of increasing insurable values (due in large part to inflation, including wage inflation), a tight labor market and lower unemployment is likely contributing to increases in client insured exposures.  Additionally, we expect that our history of strong new business generation, solid retentions and enhanced value-added services for our carrier partners should all result in further organic growth opportunities around the world.  Overall, we believe that in a positive rate environment with increasing exposures, our professionals can demonstrate their expertise and high-quality, value-added capabilities by strengthening our clients’ insurance portfolios and delivering insurance and risk management solutions within our clients’ budget.  Based on our experience, there is currently adequate capacity in the insurance and reinsurance market for most lines of coverage . Clean energy investments - We have investments in limited liability companies that own or have owned 29 clean coal production plants developed by us and six clean coal production plants we purchased from a third party.  All 35 plants produced refined coal using propriety technologies owned by Chem-Mod.  We believe that the production and sale of refined coal at these plants prior to 2022 was qualified to receive refined coal tax credits under IRC Section 45.  The plants which were placed in service prior to December 31, 2009 (which we refer to as the 2009 Era Plants) received tax credits through 2019 and the 21 plants which were placed in service prior to December 31, 2011 (which we refer to as the 2011 Era Plants) received tax credits through 2021.  All twenty-one of the 2011 Era Plants were under long‑term production contracts with several utilities.  Those agreements ended December 31, 2021 due to the expiration of the IRC Section 45 program. We also own a 46.5% controlling interest in Chem-Mod, which prior to 2022 marketed The Chem‑Mod™ Solution proprietary technologies principally to refined fuel plants that sell refined fuel to coal-fired power plants owned by utility companies, including those plants in which we hold interests.  Chem-Mod has not generated after-tax earnings since 2021. Business Combinations and Dispositions See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our 2023 business combinations. Results of Operations Information Regarding Non-GAAP Measures and Other In the discussion and analysis of our results of operations that follows, in addition to reporting financial results in accordance with GAAP, we provide information regarding EBITDAC, EBITDAC margin, adjusted EBITDAC, adjusted EBITDAC margin, diluted net earnings per share, as adjusted (adjusted EPS), adjusted revenue, adjusted compensation and operating expenses, adjusted compensation expense ratio, adjusted operating expense ratio and organic revenue.  These measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, the GAAP information provided in this report.  We believe that these presentations provide useful information to management, analysts and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our results of operations and financial condition or because they provide investors with measures that our chief operating decision maker uses when reviewing the company’s performance.  See further below for definitions and additional reasons each of these measures is useful to investors.  Our industry peers may provide similar supplemental non-GAAP information with respect to one or more of these measures, although they may not use the same or comparable terminology and may not make identical adjustments.  For example, our organic revenue is calculated differently than some of our industry peers.  The non-GAAP information we provide should be used in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the GAAP information provided.  We make determinations regarding certain elements of executive officer incentive compensation, performance share awards and annual cash incentive awards, partly on the basis of measures related to adjusted EBITDAC. Adjusted Non-GAAP presentation - We believe that the adjusted non-GAAP presentation of our 2023 and 2022 information, presented on the following pages, provides stockholders and other interested persons with useful information regarding certain financial metrics that may assist such persons in analyzing our operating results as they develop a future earnings outlook for us.  The after-tax amounts related to the adjustments were computed using the normalized effective tax rate for each respective period. • Adjusted measures - We define these measures as revenues (for the brokerage segment), revenues before reimbursements (for the risk management segment), net earnings, compensation expense and operating expense, respectively, each adjusted to exclude the following, as applicable: o Net gains on divestitures, which are primarily net proceeds received related to sales of books of business and other divestiture transactions, such as the disposal of a business through sale or closure. 38 o Acquisition integration costs, which include costs related to certain large acquisitions (including Willis Re, the acquisition of Buck and the acquisitions of Cadence Insurance, Eastern Insurance and My Plan Manager), outside the scope of our usual tuck-in strategy, not expected to occur on an ongoing basis in the future once we fully assimilate the applicable acquisition.  These costs are typically associated with redundant workforce, compensation expense related to amortization of certain retention bonus arrangements, extra lease space, duplicate services and external costs incurred to assimilate the acquisition into our IT related systems. o Transaction-related costs, which primarily are associated with the acquisition of Willis Re (primarily related to deferred closings in certain jurisdictions in 2022), the acquisition of Buck and the acquisitions of Cadence Insurance, Eastern Insurance and My Plan Manager.  These include costs related to regulatory filings, legal and accounting services, insurance and incentive compensation. o Workforce related charges, which primarily include severance costs (either accrued or paid) related to employee terminations and other costs associated with redundant workforce. o Lease termination related charges, which primarily include costs related to terminations of real estate leases and abandonment of leased space. o Acquisition related adjustments, which include the change in estimated acquisition earnout payables adjustments and acquisition related compensation charges. o Amortization of intangible assets which reflects the amortization of customer/expiration lists, non-compete agreements, trade names and other intangible assets acquired through our merger and acquisition strategy, the impact to amortization expense of acquisition valuation adjustments to these assets as well as non-cash impairment charges. o The impact of foreign currency translation, as applicable.  The amounts excluded with respect to foreign currency translation are calculated by applying current year foreign exchange rates to the same period in the prior year. o Effective income tax rate impact, which levelizes the prior year for the change in current year tax rates. o Clean energy related, which represents the resolution of various partnership matters related to our clean energy investments. o Legal and tax related, which represents the impact of (a) adjustments in fourth quarter 2023 related to costs associated with legal and tax matters as well as the impact of tax items associated with 2022 tax returns filed in October 2023, (b) adjustments in second quarter of 2023 related to additional U.K. income tax expense related to the non‑deductibility of acquisition-related adjustments made in the quarter and costs associated with legal and tax matters, (c) adjustments in second quarter 2022 related to a one-time U.S. state tax benefit that resulted from legal entity restructuring and a favorable U.K. tax impact related to earnout liability adjustments, and (d) adjustments in first quarter 2022 related to a one-time benefit related to the revaluation of certain deferred income tax assets associated with increasing our U.S. state effective income tax rate. • Adjusted ratios - Adjusted compensation expense and adjusted operating expense, respectively, each divided by adjusted revenues. Non-GAAP Earnings Measures We believe that the presentation of EBITDAC, EBITDAC margin, adjusted EBITDAC, adjusted EBITDAC margin, adjusted EPS and adjusted net earnings for the brokerage and risk management segment, each as defined below, provides a meaningful representation of our operating performance.  Adjusted EPS is a performance measure and should not be used as a measure of our liquidity.  We also consider EBITDAC and EBITDAC margin as ways to measure financial performance on an ongoing basis.  In addition, adjusted EBITDAC, adjusted EBITDAC margin and adjusted EPS for the brokerage and risk management segments are presented to improve the comparability of our results between periods by eliminating the impact of the items that have a high degree of variability. • EBITDAC and EBITDAC Margin - EBITDAC is net earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and the change in estimated acquisition earnout payables and EBITDAC margin is EBITDAC divided by total revenues (for the brokerage segment) and revenues before reimbursements (for the risk management segment).  These measures for the brokerage and risk management segments provide a meaningful representation of our operating performance for the overall business and provide a meaningful way to measure our financial performance on an ongoing basis. 39 • Adjusted EBITDAC and Adjusted EBITDAC Margin - Adjusted EBITDAC is EBITDAC adjusted to exclude net gains on divestitures, acquisition integration costs, workforce related charges, lease termination related charges, acquisition related adjustments, transaction related costs, legal and tax related costs, and the period-over-period impact of foreign currency translation, as applicable and Adjusted EBITDAC margin is Adjusted EBITDAC divided by total adjusted revenues (defined above).  These measures for the brokerage and risk management segments provide a meaningful representation of our operating performance, and are also presented to improve the comparability of our results between periods by eliminating the impact of the items that have a high degree of variability. • Adjusted EPS and Adjusted Net Earnings - Adjusted net earnings have been adjusted to exclude the after-tax impact of net gains on divestitures, acquisition integration costs, the impact of foreign currency translation, workforce related charges, lease termination related charges, acquisition related adjustments, transaction related costs, amortization of intangible assets, legal and tax related costs and effective income tax rate impact, as applicable.  Adjusted EPS is Adjusted Net Earnings divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding.  This measure provides a meaningful representation of our operating performance (and as such should not be used as a measure of our liquidity), and for the overall business is also presented to improve the comparability of our results between periods by eliminating the impact of the items that have a high degree of variability. Organic Revenues (a non-GAAP measure) - For the brokerage segment, organic change in base commission and fee revenues, supplemental revenues and contingent revenues excludes the first twelve months of such revenues generated from acquisitions and such revenues related to divested operations in each year presented.  These revenues are excluded from organic revenues in order to help interested persons analyze the revenue growth associated with the operations that were a part of our business in both the current and prior year.  In addition, organic change in base commission and fee revenues, supplemental revenues and contingent revenues exclude the period-over-period impact of foreign currency translation to improve the comparability of our results between periods.  For the risk management segment, organic change in fee revenues excludes the first twelve months of such revenues generated from acquisitions and such revenues related to divested operations in each year presented.  In addition, change in organic growth in fee revenues excludes the period-over-period impact of foreign currency translation to improve the comparability of our results between periods. These revenue items are excluded from organic revenues in order to determine a comparable, but non-GAAP, measurement of revenue growth that is associated with the revenue sources that are expected to continue in the current year and beyond as well as eliminating the impact of the items that have a high degree of variability.  We have historically viewed organic revenue growth as an important indicator when assessing and evaluating the performance of our brokerage and risk management segments.  We also believe that using this non-GAAP measure allows readers of our financial statements to measure, analyze and compare the growth from our brokerage and risk management segments in a meaningful and consistent manner. Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Information Presented to GAAP Measures - This report includes tabular reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measures, as follows: for EBITDAC (on pages 42 and 48 ), for adjusted revenues, adjusted EBITDAC and adjusted diluted net earnings per share (on page 35 ), for organic revenue measures (on pages 43 and 48 ), respectively, for the brokerage and risk management segments, for adjusted compensation and operating expenses and adjusted EBITDAC margin (on page 45 ), respectively, for the brokerage segment and (on page 49 ) for the risk management segment. Brokerage The brokerage segment accounted for 86% of our revenue in 2023.  Our brokerage segment is primarily comprised of retail, wholesale and Gallagher Re.  Our brokerage segment generates revenues by: (i) Identifying, negotiating and placing all forms of insurance or coverage, as well as providing data analytics, risk-shifting, risk-sharing and risk-mitigation consulting services, principally related to property/casualty, life, health, welfare and disability insurance.  We also provide these services through, or in conjunction with, other unrelated agents and brokers, consultants and management advisors; (ii) Identifying, negotiating and placing all forms of reinsurance coverage, as well as providing capital markets services, including acting as underwriter, with respect to insurance linked securities, weather derivatives, capital raising and selected merger and acquisition advisory activities; (iii) Acting as an agent or broker for multiple underwriting enterprises by providing services such as sales, marketing, selecting, negotiating, underwriting, servicing and placing insurance coverage on their behalf; 40 (iv) Providing consulting services related to health and welfare benefits, voluntary benefits, executive benefits, compensation, retirement planning, institutional investment and fiduciary, actuarial, compliance, private insurance exchange, human resource technology, communications and benefits administration; and (v) Providing management and administrative services to captives, pools, risk-retention groups, healthcare exchanges, small underwriting enterprises, such as accounting, claims and loss processing assistance, feasibility studies, actuarial studies, data analytics and other administrative services. The primary source of revenues for our brokerage services is commissions from underwriting enterprises, based on a percentage of premiums paid by our clients, or fees received from clients based on an agreed level of service usually in lieu of commissions.  Commissions are fixed at the contract effective date and generally are based on a percentage of premiums for insurance coverage or employee headcount for employer sponsored benefit plans.  Commissions depend upon a large number of factors, including the type of risk being placed, the particular underwriting enterprise’s demand, the expected loss experience of the particular risk of coverage, and historical benchmarks surrounding the level of effort necessary for us to place and service the insurance contract.  Rather than being tied to the amount of premiums, fees are most often based on an expected level of effort to provide our services.  In addition, under certain circumstances, both retail brokerage and wholesale brokerage services receive supplemental and contingent revenues.  Supplemental revenue is revenue paid by an underwriting enterprise that is above the base commission paid, is determined by the underwriting enterprise and is established annually in advance of the contractual period based on historical performance criteria.  Contingent revenue is revenue paid by an underwriting enterprise based on the overall profit and/or volume of the business placed with that underwriting enterprise during a particular calendar year and is determined after the contractual period. Financial information relating to our brokerage segment results for 2023 and 2022 (in millions, except per share, percentages and workforce data): 41 The following provides information that management believes is helpful when comparing EBITDAC and adjusted EBITDAC for 2023 and 2022 (in millions): Commissions and fees - The aggregate increase in base commissions and fees for 2023 was due to revenues associated with acquisitions that were made during 2023 and 2022 ($531.8 million) and organic revenue growth.  Commission revenues increased 13% and fee revenues increased 28% in 2023 compared to 2022, respectively.  The organic change in base commission and fee revenues was 9% in 2023 and 2022. In our property/casualty brokerage operations, during the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2023, we saw continued strong customer retention and new business generation and increasing renewal premiums (premium rates and exposures).  We believe these favorable trends should continue in 2024; however, if economic conditions worsen or premium rate increases slow, we could see our revenue growth soften. 42 Items excluded from organic revenue computations yet impacting revenue comparisons for 2023 and 2022 include the following (in millions): For 2023 and 2022, we issued 1,612,000 and 726,000, shares, respectively, of our common stock at the request of sellers and/or in connection with tax-free exchange acquisitions. On November 30, 2023, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Cadence Insurance.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Cadence Insurance.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Cadence Insurance business offers a full suite of commercial property/casualty, employee benefits and personal lines products to clients from 34 offices spanning nine states across the Southeast, including Texas. On October 31, 2023, we acquired the net assets of Eastern Insurance.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Eastern Insurance.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Eastern Insurance business offers comprehensive commercial property/casualty and personal lines products as well as employee benefits consulting to clients throughout the Northeastern U.S. On April 3, 2023, we acquired the partnership interests of Buck.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Buck.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Buck business is a leading provider of retirement, human resources and employee benefits consulting and administration services operating for more than 100 years and has a diverse client base by both size and industry.  Immediately prior to closing, Buck had over 2,300 employees, including more than 220 credentialed actuaries, primarily serving customers throughout the Canada, the U.K. and the U.S. 43 On November 2, 2023, we closed and funded an offering of $1,000.0 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches.  The $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% Senior Notes are due 2034 (which we refer to as the 2034 Notes) and $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% Senior Notes are due 2054 (which we refer to as the 2054 Notes).  The weighted average interest rate is 5.97% per annum after giving effect to underwriting costs and a net hedge gain.  During 2021 through 2023, we entered into a pre-issuance interest rate hedging transaction related to these notes.  We realized a net cash gain of approximately $128.0 million on the hedging transactions that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as a decrease to our reported interest expense over ten years.  We used the proceeds of these offerings to fund acquisitions and earnout payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes. On March 2, 2023, we closed and funded an offering of $950.0 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches.  The $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.50% Senior Notes are due 2033 (which we refer to as the 2033 Notes) and $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes are due 2053 (which we refer to as the 2053 Notes).  The weighted average interest rate is 5.05% per annum after giving effect to underwriting costs and a net hedge gain.  During 2019 through 2022, we entered into a pre‑issuance interest rate hedging transaction related to these notes.  We realized a net cash gain of approximately $112.7 million on the hedging transactions that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as a decrease to our reported interest expense over ten years.  We used the proceeds of these offerings to fund acquisitions and earnout payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Supplemental and contingent revenues - Reported supplemental and contingent revenues recognized in 2023 and 2022 by quarter are as follows (in millions): Interest income, premium finance revenues and other income - This primarily represents interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and fiduciary cash and revenues from premium financing, income from equity investments and net gains related to divestitures and sales of books of business. Interest income, premium finance revenues and other income in 2023 increased compared to 2022 primarily due to increases in interest income earned on our own and fiduciary funds. The following table provides a reconciliation of brokerage segment interest income, premium finance revenues and other income, as reported in our consolidated financial statements to interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and fiduciary cash (in millions): 44 Compensation expense - The following provides non-GAAP information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2023 and 2022 compensation expense (in millions): The $744.4 million increase in compensation expense in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to base compensation related to the hiring of producers and other roles to service and support organic growth, benefits, stock compensation and other incentive compensation linked to operating results - $341.2 million in the aggregate, compensation associated with the acquisitions completed in the twelve month period ended December 31, 2023 - $322.4 million, increases in acquisition integration costs ‑ $39.2 million, acquisition earnout related adjustments - $22.5 million and workforce related charges - $19.1 million. Operating expense - The following provides non-GAAP information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2023 and 2022 operating expense (in millions): The $232.4 million increase in operating expense in 2023 compared to 2022, was primarily due to expenses associated with the acquisitions completed in the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2023 - $91.2 million, acquisition integration costs - $36.6 million, and an increase of $104.6 million in the aggregate from the return of, and underlying inflation of, advertising, travel, entertainment and other client-related expenses, professional fees, business insurance and additional investments in technology. Depreciation - The increase in depreciation expense in 2023 compared to 2022 was due primarily to the impact of purchases of furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements related to office consolidations and moves, and expenditures related to upgrading computer systems.  Also contributing to the increases in depreciation expense in 2023 was the depreciation expense associated with acquisitions completed in 2023. Amortization - The increase in amortization in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to the impact of amortization expense of intangible assets associated with acquisitions completed in 2023 and 2022, partially offset by the impact of acquisition valuation true-ups recorded in 2023 relating to acquisitions made in 2022.  Expiration lists, non‑compete agreements and trade names are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives (two to fifteen years for expiration lists, two to six years for non-compete agreements and two to fifteen years for trade names).  Based on the results of impairment reviews performed on amortizable intangible assets in 2023 and 2022, we wrote off $3.5 million and $2.0 million, respectively, of amortizable intangible assets related to the brokerage segment.  We review all of our intangible assets for impairment periodically (at least annually for goodwill) and whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable.  We perform such impairment reviews at the division (i.e., reporting unit) level with respect to goodwill and at the business unit level for amortizable intangible assets.  In reviewing intangible assets, if the 45 undiscounted future cash flows were less than the carrying amount of the respective (or underlying) asset, an indicator of impairment would exist and further analysis would be required to determine whether or not a loss would need to be charged against current period earnings as a component of amortization expense.  We performed a qualitative impairment review on carrying value of our goodwill for all of our reporting units as of December 31, 2023 and no indicators of impairment were noted. Change in estimated acquisition earnout payables - The change in the expense from the change in estimated acquisition earnout payables in 2023 compared to 2022 was due primarily to adjustments made to the estimated fair value of earnout obligations related to revised assumptions due to rising interest rates and increased market volatility and projections of future performance.  During 2023 and 2022, we recognized $76.1 million and $60.2 million, respectively, of expense related to the accretion of the discount recorded for earnout obligations in connection with our acquisitions made from 2020 to 2023.  During 2023 and 2022, we recognized $300.7 million and $30.2 million of expense, respectively, related to net adjustments in the estimated fair market values of earnout obligations in connection with revised projections of future performance for 80 and 86 acquisitions, respectively.  The net adjustments in 2023, primarily include changes made to the estimated fair value of the Willis Re acquisition earnout and reflect updated assumptions as of December 31, 2023, including forecasted 2024 revenue projections based on January 1, 2024 reinsurance renewals. The amounts initially recorded as earnout payables for our 2020 to 2023 acquisitions were measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and are primarily based upon the estimated future operating results of the acquired entities over a two- to three‑year period subsequent to the acquisition date.  The fair value of these earnout obligations is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired entities in accordance with the provisions outlined in the respective purchase agreements.  In determining fair value, we estimate the acquired entity’s future performance using financial projections developed by management for the acquired entity and market participant assumptions that were derived for revenue growth and/or profitability.  We estimate future earnout payments using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and these financial projections.  Subsequent changes in the underlying financial projections or assumptions will cause the estimated earnout obligations to change and such adjustments are recorded in our consolidated statement of earnings when incurred.  Increases in the earnout payable obligations will result in the recognition of expense and decreases in the earnout payable obligations will result in the recognition of income. Provision for income taxes - The brokerage segment’s effective tax rate in 2023 and 2022 was 25.6% and 24.7%, respectively. As of April 1, 2023, a U.K. corporate tax rate of 25% went into effect making the full year effective rate in the U.K. 23.5%.  In the first quarter of 2022, we increased our state effective income tax rate, which resulted in the overall U.S. effective income tax rate increasing from 25% to 26% and caused us to incur additional income tax expense.  We anticipate reporting an effective tax rate of approximately 24.5% to 26.5% in our brokerage segment based on known changes in tax rates in future periods. Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests - The amounts reported in this line for 2023 and 2022 include noncontrolling interest earnings of $6.3 million and $4.4 million, respectively. Litigation, Regulatory and Taxation Matters - We routinely are involved in legal proceedings, claims, disputes, regulatory matters and governmental inspections or investigations arising in the ordinary course of or incidental to our business, including relating to E&O claims and those noted below in this section.  We record accruals in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  For the matters we disclose that do not include an estimate of the amount of loss or range of losses, such an estimate is not possible or is immaterial, and we may be unable to estimate the possible loss or range of losses that could potentially result from the application of non-monetary remedies, unless disclosed below.  We currently believe that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  However, legal proceedings and government investigations are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings or other events could occur, including the payment of substantial monetary damages or an injunction or other order prohibiting us from selling one or more products at all or in particular ways, precluding particular business practices or requiring other remedies, which may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial position. During 2022, we received a subpoena from the FCPA Unit of the DOJ seeking information related to our insurance business with public entities in Ecuador.  During the fourth quarter of 2023, the DOJ informed us that it had closed its inquiry and would not be pursuing enforcement action against us in connection with this matter. As previously disclosed, our IRC 831(b) (or “micro-captive”) advisory services business has been under audit by the IRS since 2013.  Among other matters, the IRS is investigating whether we have been acting as a tax shelter promoter in connection with these operations.  Additionally, the IRS is conducting a criminal investigation related to IRC 831(b) micro-captive underwriting 46 enterprises.  We have been advised that we are not a target of the criminal investigation.  We are fully cooperating with both matters. Risk Management The risk management segment accounted for 14% of our revenue in 2023.  Our risk management segment operations provide contract claim settlement, claim administration, loss control services and risk management consulting for commercial, nonprofit, captive and public sector entities, and various other organizations that choose to self-insure property/casualty coverages or choose to use a third‑party claims management organization rather than the claim services provided by underwriting enterprises.  Revenues for our risk management segment are comprised of fees generally negotiated (i) on a per-claim or per-service basis, (ii) on a cost-plus basis, or (iii) as performance-based fees.  We also provide risk management consulting services that are recognized as the services are delivered. Financial information relating to our risk management segment results for 2023 and 2022 (in millions, except per share, percentages and workforce data): 47 The following provides non-GAAP information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2023 and 2022 EBITDAC and adjusted EBITDAC (in millions) : Fees - In 2023, our risk management operations, new core workers’ compensation and general liability claims arising improved from new clients coming on board in 2022 and 2023.  We believe these favorable trends should continue for 2024, however, worsening economic conditions or a reversal in the number of workers employed, could cause fewer new liability and core workers’ compensation claims to arise in future quarters.  Organic change in fee revenues was 16% in 2023 and 13% in 2022. Items excluded from organic fee computations yet impacting revenue comparisons in 2023 and 2022 include the following (in millions): On December 6, 2023, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of My Plan Manager.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire My Plan Manager.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and borrowings under our Credit Agreement (see Financing Cash Flow section below).  The acquired My Plan Manager is the leading provider of plan management services to participants in Australia’s National Disability Insurance Scheme. 48 Reimbursements - Reimbursements represent amounts received from clients reimbursing us for certain third-party costs associated with providing our claims management services.  In certain service partner relationships, we are considered a principal because we direct the third party, control the specified service and combine the services provided into an integrated solution.  Given this principal relationship, we are required to recognize revenue on a gross basis and service partner vendor fees in the operating expense line in our consolidated statement of earnings.  The increase in reimbursements in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to a change in business mix that is processed internally versus using outside service partners. Interest income and other income - Interest income and other income primarily represents interest income earned on cash, cash equivalents and fiduciary cash.  Interest income and other income in 2023 increased compared to 2022 primarily due to increases in interest rates earned on fiduciary cash. Compensation expense - The following provides non-GAAP information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2023 and 2022 compensation expense compensation expense (in millions): The $111.9 million increase in compensation expense in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to increased base compensation related to merit wage increases and hiring to support growth, benefits, and other incentive compensation linked to operating results - $110.6 million in the aggregate.  Also contributing to the increase was compensation associated with the acquisition completed in the twelve month period ended December 31, 2023 - $2.6 million and acquisition integration costs - $0.7 million, partially offset by reduced workforce related charges $2.0 million. Operating expense - The following provides non-GAAP information that management believes is helpful when comparing 2023 and 2022 operating expense operating expense (in millions): The $23.5 million increase in operating expense in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to the return of underlying inflation of, travel, entertainment and other client-related expenses and additional investments in technology - $23.9 million in the aggregate.  Also contributing to the increase was operating expenses associated with the acquisitions completed in the twelve month period ended December 31, 2023 - $1.1 million, partially offset by reduced acquisition integration - $1.5 million. 49 Depreciation - Depreciation expense decreased in 2023 compared to 2022, which reflects the impact of office consolidations that occurred as leases expired in 2023 and 2022 (less depreciation associated with furniture, equipment and leasehold improvements), partially offset by expenditures related to upgrading computer systems. Amortization - Amortization expense increased in 2023 compared to 2022.  The increase in amortization in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to the impact of amortization expense of intangible assets associated with the acquisition completed in 2023.  Based on the results of impairment reviews performed on amortizable intangible assets during 2023 and 2022, there were no impairments of amortizable assets related to the risk management segment. Change in estimated acquisition earnout payables - The change in expense from the change in estimated acquisition earnout payables in 2023 compared to 2022, were due primarily to adjustments made in 2023 and 2022 to the estimated fair value of an earnout obligation related to revised projections of future performance.  During 2023 and 2022, we recognized $0.5 million and $0.8 million, respectively, of expense related to the accretion of the discount recorded for earnout obligations in connection with our 2020 to 2023 acquisitions, respectively.  During 2023, there were no net adjustments in the estimated fair value of earnout obligations related to projections of future performance for acquisitions.  During 2022, we recognized $8.2 million of income related to net adjustments in the estimated fair value of earnout obligations related to revised projections of future performance for three acquisitions. Provision for income taxes - We allocate the provision for income taxes to the risk management segment using local statutory rates.  As of April 1, 2023, a U.K. corporate tax rate of 25% went into effect, making the full year effective rate 23.5%.  The risk management segment’s effective tax rate in 2023 and 2022 was 26.4% and 26.3%, respectively.  In first quarter of 2022, we increased our state effective income tax rate, which resulted in the overall U.S. effective income tax rate increasing from 25% to 26% and caused us to incur additional income tax expense.  We anticipate reporting an effective tax rate on adjusted results of approximately 25.0% to 27.0% in our risk management segment based on known changes in tax rates in future periods. 50 Corporate The corporate segment reports the financial information related to our clean energy and other investments, our debt, certain corporate and acquisition-related activities and the impact of foreign currency remeasurement.  See Note 14 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for a summary discussion of the nature of our investments at December 31, 2023 and 2022.  See Note 8 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for a summary of our debt at December 31, 2023 and 2022. Financial information relating to our corporate segment results for 2023 and 2022 (in millions, except per share and percentages): Revenues - Revenues in the corporate segment consist of the following: • Even though the law governing IRC Section 45 tax credits expired as of December 31, 2021, we did have some production at our clean coal production plants in 2022 to run-off existing chemical supplies. • The de minimis 2022 revenues from consolidated clean coal production plants represents revenues from the consolidated IRC Section 45 facilities in which we have a majority ownership position and maintain control over the operations at the related facilities. • Royalty income from clean coal licenses represents revenues related to Chem-Mod LLC.  We held a 46.5% controlling interest in Chem-Mod LLC.  As Chem-Mod LLC’s manager, we are required to consolidate its operations. • The decrease in royalty income in 2023 compared to 2022 was due to the IRC Section 45 program expiring as of December 31, 2021. Cost of revenues - Cost of revenues from consolidated clean coal production plants in 2022 consists of the cost of coal, labor, equipment maintenance, chemicals, supplies, management fees and depreciation incurred by the clean coal production plants to generate the consolidated revenues discussed above.  Even though the law governing IRC Section 45 tax credits expired as of 51 December 31, 2021, we did have some production at our clean coal production plants in 2022 to run-off existing chemical supplies. Compensation expense - Compensation expense for 2023 and 2022 includes salary, incentive compensation, and associated benefit expenses of $135.3 million and $110.2 million, respectively.  The change in 2023 compensation expense compared to 2022 was primarily due to growth in base compensation and increased incentive compensation, as well as transaction-related costs as described on page 54 in note (2). Operating expense - Operating expense for 2023 includes banking and related fees of $3.1 million, external professional fees and other due diligence costs related to 2023 acquisitions of $33.8 million, which includes $17.6 million of transaction-related costs as described on page 54 in note (2), other corporate and clean energy related expenses, including litigation matters, technology and other professional fees - $113.3 million in aggregate, and a net unrealized foreign exchange remeasurement loss of $9.8 million. Operating expense for 2022 includes banking and related fees of $2.5 million, external professional fees and other due diligence costs related to 2022 acquisitions of $40.8 million, which includes specific transaction-related costs as described on page 54 in note (2), other corporate and clean energy related expenses of $44.4 million, including legal fees, and costs associated with the idling of the IRC Section 45 program and a net unrealized foreign exchange remeasurement gain of $30.6 million. Interest expense - The increase in interest expense in 2023 compared to 2022 was due to the following (in millions): Depreciation - Depreciation expense in 2023 increased compared to 2022, due to capital improvements made at our corporate headquarters and Gallagher Centers of Excellence in 2023 and 2022 and to the acquisition of other corporate related fixed assets in 2023. Net losses attributable to noncontrolling interests - The amounts reported in this line for 2023 and 2022 primarily include noncontrolling interest losses of $(9.8) million and $(2.6) million, respectively, related to our investment in Chem-Mod LLC.  As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we held a 46.5% controlling interest in Chem-Mod LLC.  Also, included in net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests are offsetting amounts related to non-Gallagher owned interests in several clean energy investments. Benefit for income taxes - We allocate the provision for income taxes to the brokerage and risk management segments using local statutory rates.  The law that provides for IRC Section 45 tax credits expired in December 2021 for 21 of our 2011 Era Plants.  Our consolidated effective tax rate was 18.5% and 15.9%, for 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The tax rate for 2023 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the income tax benefit of stock-based awards, revaluation of deferred tax assets in Bermuda to the new 15% corporate tax rate as well as updates to the U.S. tax attributes associated with the U.K. loss deferral reported on the 2022 tax return.  As of April 1, 2023, a U.K. corporate tax rate of 25% went into effect, making the full year effective rate in the U.K. 23.5%.  The tax rate for 2022 was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the state tax benefits of legal entity restructuring, the revaluation of state deferred tax assets to a higher effective tax rate, as well as the establishment of new deferred tax assets related to U.K. loss deferral.  There were no IRC Section 45 tax credits produced in 2023 and 2022.  In 2023, we recognized an unfavorable U.K. tax impact related to earnout liability adjustments.  In the first quarter of 2022, we increased our state effective income tax rate, which resulted in the overall U.S. effective income tax rate increasing from 25% to 26%, and caused us to incur additional income tax benefit during the quarter and recognize a one-time benefit related to the revaluation of certain deferred income tax assets.  In 2022, we recognized a one-time U.S. state tax benefit that resulted from legal entity restructuring and an unfavorable U.K. tax impact related to earnout liability adjustments.  In late 2022, when it 52 became clear the new U.K. Prime Minister was not going to reverse a previously‑enacted corporate tax rate increase, we recognized a one-time benefit associated with the deferral of U.K. tax losses to a future year.  The income tax benefit of stock based awards that vested or were settled in the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $76.1 million and $59.3 million, respectively. Litigation Matters - In July 2019, Midwest Energy filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against us, Chem‑Mod LLC and numerous other related and unrelated parties.  The complaint alleged that the named defendants infringed patents held exclusively by Midwest Energy and sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief.  During the fourth quarter of 2023, we settled this matter for an amount that was not material and without admitting any wrongdoing. Significant Future Income Tax Law Changes - On December 27th, 2023, Bermuda introduced a new corporate income tax that applies to Bermuda businesses that are part of multinational enterprise groups with annual revenues of EUR$750.0 million, taking effect in January 2025.  We have adjusted our Bermuda tax deferred items to account for this rate increase.  In 2022, the U.S. enacted the IRA and the Creating Helpful Incentives to Produce Semiconductors (which we refer to as CHIPS) and Science Act of 2022.  We do not anticipate any significant impacts from either law change.  See more discussions of those provisions below. In October 2021, the OECD announced that 136 countries and tax jurisdictions agreed to implement a new Pillar 2 approach to international taxation.  The first detailed draft rules under that approach were published in December 2021.  The U.K. and the majority of the EU have adopted some aspects of these rules.  Other countries in which we have significant operations, including Australia and Canada, have announced an intention to adopt it or started the process of doing so.  The new approach came into effect in 2023 in certain jurisdictions, and different countries have implemented the necessary rules in different ways, through their individual agreement to tax treaty changes and through changes to their own domestic tax laws.  Pillar 1 exempts regulated financial institutions and we believe we qualify for such exemption.  Pillar 2 will establish a global minimum tax rate of 15%, such that multinational enterprises with an effective tax rate in a jurisdiction below this minimum rate will need to pay additional tax, which could be collected by the parent company’s tax authorities if that parent country adopts Pillar 2 or by those in other countries, depending on whether and how each country implements the OECD’s approach in its tax treaties and domestic tax legislation.  Depending on how the jurisdictions in which we operate, and those in which we and our subsidiaries are based, choose to implement the OECD’s approach in their tax treaties and domestic tax laws, particularly if the U.S. does not adopt Pillar 2, we could be adversely affected due to our income being taxed at higher effective rates, once these new rules come into force. U.S. Federal Income Tax Law Changes Items Impacting the Company Going Forward Alternative Minimum Tax Credit - The IRA enacted a book-based Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax (which we refer to as CAMT) for years beginning after 2022.  The CAMT imposes a minimum 15% cash tax on adjusted book income before general business credits.  As such, we do not currently anticipate being subject to the CAMT and even if we were to find ourselves subject to it in a particular year, we do not believe there would be an impact on our earnings. Excise Tax On Stock Buybacks - The IRA adds a 1% surtax to corporate stock repurchases effective January 2023.  Our board approved a common stock repurchase program in 2021.  If we were to effectuate stock repurchases under this program, the excise tax would not have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. New Tax Credits for Renewable Energy - The IRA introduced new tax credits for certain renewable energy projects and onshoring certain manufacturing activities associated with those projects.  While we continue to explore additional renewable energy investments, we do not currently anticipate significant benefits from these new incentive programs. 53 The following provides non-GAAP information that we believe is helpful when comparing 2023 and 2022 operating results for the corporate segment (in millions): (1) Pretax losses for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 are presented net of amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests of $(9.8) million and $(2.6) million, respectively. (2) We incurred transaction-related costs, which include legal, consulting, employee compensation and other professional fees primarily associated with our acquisition of Willis Re (primarily related to deferred closings in certain jurisdictions in 2022), the acquisition of Buck, which was signed on December 20, 2022 and closed on April 3, 2023, and the acquisitions of Cadence Insurance, Eastern Insurance and My Plan Manager, all of which closed in fourth quarter 2023. (3) Adjustments in fourth quarter 2022 include costs associated with legal and tax matters as well as the impact of tax planning items associated with 2022 tax returns filed in fourth quarter 2023.  Adjustments in fourth quarter 2022 include (a) additional U.K. income tax expense related to the non‑deductibility of acquisition-related adjustments made in the quarter, (b) gains and costs associated with legal and tax matters, (c) income tax provision adjustments as filed in our 2021 tax returns and (d) income tax benefit related to adjusting certain U.K. deferred income tax assets to the future 25% corporate income tax rate. (4) Corporate pretax loss includes a net unrealized foreign exchange remeasurement loss of $(9.8) million and a net unrealized foreign exchange remeasurement gain of $30.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2022. Interest and banking costs and debt - Interest and banking costs includes expenses related to our debt. Clean energy related - For 2023, this consists of operating results related to our investments in new clean energy projects and the wind up of our investment in clean coal production plants.  Prior to 2023, this consisted of the operating results related to our investments in clean coal production plants and royalty income from clean coal licenses related to Chem-Mod- LLC.  The production of IRC Section 45 clean energy tax credits ceased in December 2021, which reduced the royalty income received by Chem-Mod LLC and net earnings generated by our investments in clean coal production plants in 2022.  Even though the law governing IRC Section 45 tax credits expired as of December 31, 2021, we did have some production at our clean coal production plants in the three-month period ended March 31, 2022 to run-off existing chemical supplies. Acquisition costs - Consists mostly of external professional fees and other due diligence costs related to acquisitions.  On occasion, we enter into forward currency hedges for the purchase price of committed, but not yet funded, acquisitions with funding requirements in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  The gains or losses, if any, associated with these hedge transactions are also included. 54 Corporate - Consists of overhead allocations mostly related to corporate staff compensation, other corporate level activities, and net unrealized foreign exchange remeasurement.  In addition, corporate includes the tax expense related to partial taxation of foreign earnings, nondeductible executive compensation and entertainment expenses, the tax benefit from vesting of employee equity awards, as well as other permanent or discrete tax items not reflected in the provision for income taxes in the brokerage and risk management segments.  The income tax benefit of stock based awards that vested or were settled in the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $76.1 million and $59.3 million, respectively, and is included in the table above in the Corporate line. Clean Energy Investments - We have investments in limited liability companies that own or have owned 29 clean coal production plants developed by us and six clean coal production plants we purchased from a third party.  All 35 plants produced refined coal using propriety technologies owned by Chem-Mod LLC.  We believe that the production and sale of refined coal at these plants prior to 2022 were qualified to receive refined coal tax credits under IRC Section 45.  The 14 2009 Era Plants received tax credits through 2019 and the 21 2011 Era Plants received tax credits through 2021. Our investment in Chem-Mod LLC prior to 2022 generated royalty income from refined coal production plants owned by those limited liability companies in which we invested as well as refined coal production plants owned by other unrelated parties. See the risk factors regarding our IRC Section 45 investments under Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” for a more detailed discussion of these and other factors could impact the information above.  See Note 14 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for more information regarding risks and uncertainties related to these investments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of its business operations.  The insurance brokerage and risk management industries are not capital intensive.  Historically, our capital requirements have primarily included dividend payments on our common stock, repurchases of our common stock, funding of our investments, acquisitions of brokerage and risk management operations and capital expenditures, including investments being made in IT and software development projects. On December 6, 2023, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of My Plan Manager.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire My Plan Manager.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired My Plan Manager is the leading provider of plan management services to participants in Australia’s National Disability Insurance Scheme. On November 30, 2023, we acquired all the issued and outstanding shares of Cadence Insurance.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Cadence Insurance.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Cadence Insurance business offers a full suite of commercial property/casualty, employee benefits and personal lines products to clients from 34 offices spanning nine states across the Southeast, including Texas. On October 31, 2023, we acquired the net assets of Eastern Insurance.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Eastern Insurance.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Eastern Insurance business offers comprehensive commercial property/casualty and personal lines products as well as employee benefits consulting to clients throughout the Northeastern U.S. On April 3, 2023, we acquired the partnership interests of Buck.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for information on the purchase price consideration paid to acquire Buck.  We funded the transaction using free cash flow and funds received from an unsecured senior notes offering.  The acquired Buck business is a leading provider of retirement, human resources and employee benefits consulting and administration services.  Total expected expense to integrate Buck into our operations is approximately $125.0 million. On December 1, 2021, we acquired substantially all of the Willis Re for an initial gross consideration of $3.17 billion, and potential additional consideration of $750 million subject to certain third-year revenue targets.  We funded the transaction using cash on hand, including the $1.4 billion of net cash raised in our May 17, 2021 follow-on common stock offering, $850 million of net cash borrowed in our May 20, 2021 30-year senior note issuance, $750 million of net cash borrowed in our November 9, 2021 10-year ($400 million) and 30-year ($350 million) senior note issuances and short‑term borrowings. Operating Cash Flows Historically, we have depended on our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations to meet a substantial portion of our cash requirements.  We believe that our cash flows from operations and borrowings under our Credit Agreement (as defined below) will provide us with adequate resources to meet our liquidity needs in the foreseeable future.  To fund acquisitions made during 2023 and 2022, we relied on a combination of net cash flows from operations, proceeds from borrowings under our Credit Agreement, proceeds from issuances of senior unsecured notes and issuance of our common stock. 55 Cash provided by operating activities was $2,031.7 million and $1,390.0 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase in cash provided by operating activities during 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 was primarily due to growth in our core broking and risk management operations, timing differences between periods with cash receipts and disbursements related to other current assets and current liabilities compared to 2022, and the collection of refined coal production related receivables due to the wind up of clean coal operations and the cash benefit related to the utilization of IRC Section 45 tax credits that occurred in 2022.  During the three-month period ended March 31, 2022, we collected $71.1 million of clean coal production related receivables and made $84.8 million in payments for clean coal production related payables that were accrued in our December 31, 2021 consolidated balance sheet.  With respect to the 2022 provision for deferred income taxes, the decrease in the deferred tax asset for the utilization of IRC Section 45 tax credits was offset by the increase in deferred tax assets related to capitalized indirect property costs and U.K. net operating loss carryforwards. The 2023 income taxes paid amounts were favorably impacted compared to 2022 due to the reversal of the tax method changes on our 2022 tax return filed in the fourth quarter of 2023.  Also in 2022, we elected to defer the utilization of 2022 net operating losses in the U.K. causing additional cash tax payments of $49.0 million relating to 2022.  The U.K. payments would have been made in future periods, and do not represent additional taxes due. During 2023 and 2022, employee matching contributions to the 401(k) plan of $73.8 million and $65.7 million, respectively, relating to 2022 and 2021 were funded using common stock. Our cash flows from operating activities are primarily derived from our earnings from operations, as adjusted, for our non-cash expenses, which include depreciation, amortization, change in estimated acquisition earnout payables, deferred compensation, restricted stock, and stock-based and other non-cash compensation expenses.  Historically, cash provided by operating activities was unfavorably impacted if the amount of IRC Section 45 tax credits generated (which is the amount we recognized for financial reporting purposes) was greater than the amount of tax credits utilized to reduce our tax cash obligations.  Excess tax credits produced in 2021 and 2020 resulted in an increase to our deferred tax assets, which was a net use of cash related to operating activities.  In 2023, IRC Section 45 credits were no longer generated due to the IRC Section 45 program expiring as of December 31, 2021, and therefore the IRC Section 45 credit utilization against our cash tax obligation resulted in favorable cash flow in 2023.  Please see “Clean energy investments” below for more information on their potential future impact on cash provided by operating activities. When assessing our overall liquidity, we believe that the focus should be on net earnings as reported in our consolidated statement of earnings, adjusted for non-cash items (i.e., EBITDAC), and cash provided by operating activities in our consolidated statement of cash flows.  Consolidated EBITDAC was $2,555.6 million and $2,266.5 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Net earnings attributable to controlling interests were $969.5 million and $1,114.2 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively.  We believe that EBITDAC items are indicators of trends in liquidity. Change in Presentation of Fiduciary Assets and Liabilities in First Quarter 2023 In first quarter 2023, we changed the presentation of certain amounts and classifications in our consolidated balance sheet and statement of cash flows to identify and present fiduciary assets and liabilities and respective changes of these accounts in the balance sheet and statement of cash flows.  These revisions also better reflect the cash flows associated with our operations.  Lines for accounts receivable, fiduciary assets and fiduciary liabilities were added and lines for restricted cash, premiums and fees receivable and premiums payable to underwriting enterprises were removed.  In addition to these changes, we moved the net change in fiduciary assets and liabilities from the operating section to the financing section of the statement of cash flows.  We made the applicable revisions to the December 31, 2022 balance sheet and statement of cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 to conform to the current period presentation.  These changes had no impact on the 2022 and 2021 consolidated statement of earnings or December 31, 2022 and 2021 stockholders’ equity.  See Note 5 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for an additional discussion of the change in presentation of fiduciary assets and liabilities. Defined Benefit Pension Plan Our policy for funding our defined benefit pension plan is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements under the IRC.  The Employee Retirement Security Act of 1974, as amended (which we refer to as ERISA), could impose a minimum funding requirement for our plan.  We were not required to make any minimum contributions to the plan for the 2023 and 2022 plan years.  Funding requirements are based on the plan being frozen and the aggregate amount of our historical funding.  The plan’s actuaries determine contribution rates based on our funding practices and requirements.  Funding amounts may be influenced by future asset performance, the level of discount rates and other variables impacting the assets and/or liabilities of the plan.  In addition, amounts funded in the future, to the extent not due under regulatory requirements, may be affected by alternative uses of our cash flows, including dividends, acquisitions and common stock repurchases.  During 2023 and 2022 we did not make discretionary contributions to the plan. 56 See Note 13 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional information required to be disclosed relating to our defined benefit pension plan.  We are required to recognize an accrued benefit plan liability for our underfunded defined benefit pension plan (which we refer to together as the Plan).  The offsetting adjustment to the liabilities required to be recognized for the Plan is recorded in “Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss,” net of tax, in our consolidated balance sheet.  We will recognize subsequent changes in the funded status of the Plans through the income statement and as a component of comprehensive earnings, as appropriate, in the year in which they occur.  Numerous items may lead to a change in funded status of the Plan, including actual results differing from prior estimates and assumptions, as well as changes in assumptions to reflect information available at the respective measurement dates. The net change in the funded status of the Plan in 2023 resulted in an increase in noncurrent assets in 2023 of $12.3 million.  In 2023, the funded status of the Plan was unfavorably impacted by a decrease in the discount rates used in the measurement of the pension liabilities at December 31, 2023 and other assumption changes, the net impact of which was approximately $8.6 million.  In addition, the funded status was favorably impacted by returns on the plan’s assets being significantly higher in 2023 than anticipated by approximately $20.9 million.  In 2022, the funded status of the Plan was favorably impacted by an increase in the discount rates used in the measurement of the pension liabilities at December 31, 2022 and other assumption changes, the net impact of which was approximately $70.5 million.  In addition, the funded status was unfavorably impacted by returns on the plan’s assets being significantly lower in 2022 than anticipated by approximately $(72.8) million (negative return).  The net change in the funded status of the Plan in 2022 resulted in a decrease in noncurrent assets in 2022 of $2.3 million.  While the change in the funded status of the Plan had no direct impact on our cash flows from operations in 2023 and 2022, potential changes in the pension regulatory environment and investment losses in our pension plan have an effect on our capital position and could require us to make significant contributions to our defined benefit pension plan and increase our pension expense in future periods. Investing Cash Flows Capital Expenditures - Capital expenditures were $193.6 million and $182.7 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively.  In 2023 and 2022 capital expenditures include amounts incurred related to office moves, investments made in IT and software development projects.  Relating to the development of our corporate headquarters, we received property tax related credits under a tax-increment financing note from Rolling Meadows, Illinois and an Illinois state EDGE tax credit.  Incentives from these two programs could total between $50.0 million and $80.0 million over a fifteen-year period.  In 2024, we expect total expenditures for capital improvements to be approximately $175.0 million, part of which is related to expenditures on office moves and investments being made in IT and software development projects.  The decrease in the expected capital expenditures in 2024 compared to 2023 is primarily due to lower integration related expenditures. Acquisitions - Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash and restricted cash acquired, was $3,041.9 million and $764.9 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increased use of cash for acquisitions in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to our acquisition of Buck, Eastern Insurance, Cadence Insurance and My Plan Manager.  In addition, during 2023 and 2022 we issued 2.5 million shares ($525.8 million) and 0.9 million shares ($164.6 million), respectively, of our common stock as payment for a portion of the total consideration paid for acquisitions and earnout payments.  We completed 51 and 37 acquisitions in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Annualized revenues of businesses acquired in 2023 and 2022 totaled approximately $885.1 million and $246.5 million, respectively.  In 2024, we expect to use new debt, our Credit Agreement (as defined below), cash from operations and our common stock, or a combination thereof to fund all of the acquisitions we complete. In order to maintain leverage ratios and investment grade credit ratings or if liquidity concerns arise, we may be more likely to use common stock to fund acquisitions. Dispositions - During 2023 and 2022, we sold several books of business and recognized one-time gains of $10.0 million and $13.0 million, respectively.  We received cash proceeds of $9.9 million and $11.0 million for 2023 and 2022, respectively, related to these transactions. Clean Energy Investments - During the period from 2009 through 2021, we made significant investments in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualified for tax credits under IRC Section 45.  The IRC Section 45 tax credits generate positive cash flow by reducing the amount of federal income taxes we pay.  We anticipate positive net cash flow related to IRC Section 45 activity in 2024.  However, there are several variables that can impact net cash flow from clean energy investments in any given year.  Therefore, accurately predicting cash in particular future periods is not possible at this time.  However, if we continue to generate sufficient taxable income to use the tax credits produced by our IRC Section 45 investments, we anticipate that these investments will continue to generate positive net cash flows due to the utilization of IRC Section 45 tax credits to offset taxable income in years after the program expired.  In October 2023, we filed our 2022 federal income tax return and elected to discontinue a tax method change. This resulted in the addback of tax credits that were not 57 utilized on the tax return by approximately $157.0 million, which was recorded in the fourth quarter 2023.  Amended tax returns in the fourth quarter 2023 and closed tax years accounted for the addback of unutilized tax credits of $6.6 million of IRC Section 45 tax credits.  In October 2022, we filed our 2021 federal tax return and elected to continue a tax method change in that return.  This resulted in an acceleration of the amount of tax credits that we utilized on the return by approximately $150.0 million, which was recorded in fourth quarter 2022.  We also amended our 2014 and 2015 federal tax returns in the fourth quarter of 2022, which resulted in a refund of $3.7 million of IRC Section 45 tax credits.  While we cannot precisely forecast the cash flow impact in any particular period, we anticipate that the net cash flow impact of IRC Section 45 activity will be positive overall.  Please see "Clean energy investments" on page 54 for a more detailed description of these investments and their risks and uncertainties. Financing Cash Flows At December 31, 2023, we had $3,550.0 million of Senior Notes, $3,948.0 million of corporate‑related borrowings outstanding under separate note purchase agreements entered into during the period from 2014 to 2021, $245.0 million of borrowings outstanding under our Credit Agreement, $289.0 million outstanding under our Premium Financing Debt Facility and a cash and cash equivalent balance of $971.6 million.  See Note 8 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the terms of the Senior Notes, Note purchase agreements, the Credit Agreement (as defined below) and the Premium Financing Debt Facility. Consistent with past practice, as of December 31, 2023 we had pre-issuance hedges open for $150.0 million for 2024.  During the three months ended December 31, 2023, we settled approximately $128.0 million of interest rate contracts hedges with a notional value of $900.0 million that will be amortized into interest expense in future periods. The Senior Notes, Note Purchase Agreements, the Credit Agreement and the Premium Financing Debt Facility contain various financial covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios.  We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2023. Senior Notes - On November 2, 2023, we closed and funded an offering of $1,000.0 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches.  The $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.50% Senior Notes are due 2034 (which we refer to as the 2034 Notes) and $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% Senior Notes are due 2054 (which we refer to as the 2054 Notes).  The weighted average interest rate is 5.97% per annum after giving effect to underwriting costs and a net hedge gain.  During 2021 through 2023, we entered into a pre-issuance interest rate hedging transaction related to these notes.  We realized a net cash gain of approximately $128.0 million on the hedging transactions that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as a decrease to our reported interest expense over ten years.  We used the proceeds of these offerings to fund acquisitions, earnout payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes. On March 2, 2023, we closed and funded an offering of $950.0 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches.  The $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.50% Senior Notes are due 2033 (which we refer to as the 2033 Notes) and $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes are due 2053 (which we refer to as the 2053 Notes).  The weighted average interest rate is 5.05% per annum after giving effect to underwriting costs and a net hedge gain.  During 2019 through 2022, we entered into a pre‑issuance interest rate hedging transaction related to these notes.  We realized a net cash gain of approximately $112.7 million on the hedging transactions that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as a decrease to our reported interest expense over ten years.  We used the proceeds of these offerings to fund acquisitions, earnout payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes. On November 9, 2021, we closed and funded an offering of $750.0 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches.  The $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.40% Senior Notes are due 2031 (which we refer to as the 2031 November Notes) and $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.05% Senior Notes are due 2052 (which we refer to as the 2052 November Notes and together with the 2031 November Notes, the November Notes).  The weighted average interest rate is 2.80% per annum after giving effect to underwriting costs.  The November Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of May 20, 2021, as modified and supplemented in respect of the November Notes by an Officer’s Certificate pursuant to the indenture, dated as of November 9, 2021.  The relevant terms of the November Notes, the indenture and the Officer’s Certificate are further described under the caption “Description of Notes” in the prospectus supplement filed with the SEC on November 3, 2021.  We used the net proceeds of the November Notes offering to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable in connection with the Willis Re transaction. On May 20, 2021, we closed and funded an offering of $1,500.0 million of unsecured senior notes in two tranches.  The $650.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Senior Notes were due 2031 (which we refer to as the 2031 May Notes) and $850.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.50% Senior Notes are due 2051 (which we refer to as the 2051 May Notes and 58 together with the 2031 May Notes, the May Notes).  The weighted average interest rate is 3.13% per annum after giving effect to underwriting costs and the net hedge loss.  In 2018 and 2019, we entered into a pre-issuance interest rate hedging transaction related to these notes.  We realized a net cash loss of approximately $57.8 million on the hedging transactions that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as an increase to our reported interest expense over ten years. The offering of the May Notes was made pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC.  The relevant terms of the May Notes, the Indenture and the Officer’s Certificate are further described under the caption “Description of Notes” in the prospectus supplement dated May 13, 2021, filed with the SEC on May 17, 2021. The 2031 May Notes had a special optional redemption whereby, we had the option to redeem the 2031 May Notes, in whole and not in part, by providing notice of such redemption to the holders of the 2031 May Notes within 30 days following a Willis Re transaction termination event, at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2031 May Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest.  These notes were redeemed on August 13, 2021.  As a result of the redemption of this debt, we incurred a loss on extinguishment of debt of $16.2 million, which included the redemption price premium of $6.5 million, which is presented in cash flows from financing activities, and the unamortized discount amount on the debt issuance and the write-off of all the debt acquisition costs of $9.7 million, which is presented in cash flows from operating activities.  The 2051 May Notes are not subject to the special optional redemption.  We used the net proceeds of the 2051 May Notes offering to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable in connection with the Willis Re transaction. Note Purchase Agreement - During June 2023, we used operating cash to fund the $200.0 million Series N note maturity that had a fixed rate of 4.13% that was due June 24, 2023. During June 2023, we used operating cash to fund the prepayment of the $50.0 million Series CC note floating rate of 90 day LIBOR plus 1.40%, balloon that was originally due on June 13, 2024. During February 2023, we used operating cash to fund the $50.0 million Series E note maturity that had a fixed rate of 5.49% that was due February 10, 2023. On May 5, 2021, we closed and funded a private placement of $75.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes.  The unsecured senior notes were issued with an interest rate of 2.46% and are due in 2036.  We used the proceeds of this offering in part to fund acquisitions and general corporate purposes.  The weighted average interest rate is 3.98% after giving effect to a net hedging loss.  In 2018, we entered into a pre-issuance interest rate hedging transaction related to this private placement.  We realized a net cash loss of approximately $17.2 million on the hedging transactions that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as an increase in our reported interest expense over ten years of the total 15‑year notes. On February 10, 2021, we closed a private placement of $100.0 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes.  The unsecured senior notes were issued with an interest rate of 2.44% and are due in 2036.  We used the proceeds of these offerings in part to fund the $75.0 million February 10, 2021 Series D note maturity, and for acquisitions and general corporate purposes.  The weighted average interest rate is 3.97% after giving effect to a net hedging loss.  In 2018, we entered into a pre‑issuance interest rate hedging transaction related to this private placement.  We realized a net cash loss of approximately $22.9 million on the hedging transactions that will be recognized on a pro rata basis as an increase in our reported interest expense over ten years of the total 15‑year notes. Credit Agreemen t - On June 22, 2023, we entered into the new Credit Agreement (which we refer to as the Credit Agreement) with an administrative agent and a group of other lenders.  The Credit Agreement provides for a five-year unsecured revolving credit facility in the amount of $1,200.0 million (including a $75.0 million letter of credit sub-facility), which is also available in Pounds Sterling, Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars, New Zealand Dollars, Euros, Japanese Yen and any other currencies agreed by the lenders.  On November 7, 2023, we entered into the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement, pursuant to which we increased the commitments under the Credit Agreement to $1,700.0 million.  The Credit Agreement permits us to designate wholly-owned subsidiaries located in certain jurisdictions as additional borrowers, the obligations of which under the Credit Agreement will be guaranteed by the Company, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement.  Any subsidiary that guarantees any notes under the Company’s existing note purchase agreements is required to guarantee the obligations under the Credit Agreement.  There are currently no subsidiary borrowers or guarantors under the Credit Agreement. Loans borrowed under the Credit Agreement bear interest at a variable annual rate based on a customary benchmark rate for each available currency including Secured Overnight Financing Rate (which we refer to as SOFR) for loans in U .S. Dollars, or at our election solely for loans in U.S. Dollars, the base rate, plus in each case an applicable margin.  Interest rates on base rate loans and outstanding drawings on letters of credit under the Credit Agreement will be based on the Base Rate, as defined in the Credit Agreement, plus a margin of 0.00% to 0.375%, depending on the rating of our long-term senior unsecured debt.  Interest rates for SOFR loans and loans in currencies other than U.S. dollars under the Credit Agreement will be based on, as applicable, a SOFR 59 Daily Floating Rate, Term SOFR, Alternative Currency Daily Rate or Alternative Currency Term Rate, as defined in the Credit Agreement, plus a margin of 0.775% to 1.375%, depending on the rating of our long-term senior unsecured debt.  The annual facility fee related to the Credit Agreement is between 0.100% and 0.250% of the revolving credit commitment, depending on the rating of our long-term senior unsecured debt.  Subject to certain conditions stated in the Credit Agreement, we may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit Agreement at any time during the term of the Credit Agreement. Funds borrowed under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate and working capital purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants, as well as customary events of default, with corresponding grace periods, including, without limitation, payment defaults, cross-defaults to other agreements evidencing indebtedness and bankruptcy-related defaults.  We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2023. Concurrently, on June 22, 2023, we paid off and terminated all of our obligations under the Second Amended and Restated Multicurrency Credit Agreement, dated as of June 7, 2019. There were $245.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2023.  Due to the outstanding borrowing and letters of credit, $1,443.4 million remained available for potential borrowings under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2023. We use the Credit Agreement to post letters of credit and to borrow funds to supplement our operating cash flows from time to time.  During 2023, we borrowed an aggregate of $3,795.0 million and repaid $3,610.0 million under our Credit Agreement and under the Second Amended and Restated Multicurrency Credit Agreement.  During 2022, we borrowed an aggregate of $2,570.0 million and repaid $2,555.0 million under the Amended (and Second Amended) and Restated Multicurrency Credit Agreement which was terminated on June 22, 2023.  Principal uses of the 2023 and 2022 borrowings under the Credit Agreement were to fund acquisitions, earnout payments related to acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Premium Financing Debt Facility - On October 31, 2023, we entered into an amendment to our revolving loan facility (which we refer to as the Premium Financing Debt Facility) that provides funding for the three Australian (AU) and New Zealand (NZ) premium finance subsidiaries.  The Premium Financing Debt Facility is comprised of: (i) Facility B is separated into AU$390.0 million and NZ$25.0 million tranches (the NZ$ tranche will be decreased as of May 1, 2024 to NZ$10.0 million), (ii) Facility C, an AU$60.0 million equivalent multi‑currency overdraft tranche and (iii) Facility D, a NZ$15.0 million equivalent multi-currency overdraft tranche. The interest rates on Facility B are Interbank rates, which vary by tranche, duration and currency, plus a margin of 1.500% and 1.850% for the AU$ and NZ$ tranches, respectively.  The interest rates on Facilities C and D are 30 day Interbank rates, plus a margin of 0.830% and 0.990% for the AU$ and NZ$ tranches, respectively.  The annual fee for Facility B is 0.675% and 0.8325% for the undrawn commitments for the AU$ and NZ$ tranches, respectively.  The annual fee for Facility C is 0.77% and for Facility D is 0.90% of the total commitments of the facilities. The terms of our Premium Financing Debt Facility include various financial covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios.  We were in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2023.  The Premium Financing Debt Facility also includes customary provisions for transactions of this type, including events of default, with corresponding grace periods and cross-defaults to other agreements evidencing our indebtedness.  Facilities B, C and D are secured by the premium finance receivables of the Australian and New Zealand premium finance subsidiaries. At December 31, 2023, AU$365.0 million and NZ$0.0 million of borrowings were outstanding under Facility B, AU$45.9 million of borrowings outstanding under Facility C and NZ$13.7 million of borrowings were outstanding under Facility D, which in aggregate amount to US$289.0 million of borrowings outstanding under the Premium Financing Debt Facility.  Accordingly, as of December 31, 2023, AU$25.0 million and NZ$25.0 million remained available for potential borrowing under Facility B, and AU$14.1 million and NZ$1.3 million under Facilities C and D, respectively. Dividends - Our board of directors determines our dividend policy.  Our board of directors determines dividends on our common stock on a quarterly basis after considering our available cash from earnings, our anticipated cash needs and current conditions in the economy and financial markets. In 2023, we declared $478.8 million in cash dividends on our common stock, or $2.20 per common share.  On December 15, 2023, we paid a fourth quarter dividend of $0.55 per common share to shareholders of record as of December 1, 2023.  On January 24, 2024, we announced a quarterly dividend for first quarter 2024 of $0.60 per common share.  If the dividend is maintained at $0.60 per common share throughout 2024, this dividend level would result in an annualized net cash used by 60 financing activities in 2024 of approximately $519.8 million (based on the outstanding shares as of December 31, 2023), or an anticipated increase in cash used of approximately $46.2 million compared to 2023.  We can make no assurances regarding the amount of any future dividend payments. Shelf Registration Statement - On March 8, 2021 we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, registering the offer and sale from time to time, of an indeterminate amount of debt securities, guarantees, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts, or units.  The availability of the potential liquidity under this shelf registration statement depends on investor demand, market conditions and other factors.  We make no assurances regarding when, or if, we will issue any securities under this registration statement.  On November 15, 2022, we filed a second shelf registration statement on Form S-4 with the SEC, registering 7.0 million shares of our common stock that we may offer and issue from time to time in connection with future acquisitions of other businesses, assets or securities.  At December 31, 2023, 6.2 million shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement. Common Stock Repurchases - We have in place a common stock repurchase plan approved by our board of directors in July 2021 that authorizes the repurchase of up to $1.5 billion of common stock.  During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we did not repurchase shares of our common stock.  The plan authorizes the repurchase of our common stock at such times and prices, as we may deem advantageous, in transactions on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions.  We are under no commitment or obligation to repurchase any particular number of shares, and the plan may be suspended at any time at our discretion.  Funding for share repurchases may come from a variety of sources, including cash from operations, short-term or long-term borrowings under our Credit Agreement or other sources. Public Offering of Common Stock - On May 12, 2021, we entered into an Underwriting Agreement with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC to issue 9.0 million shares of our common stock in a public offering.  On May 12 2021, we agreed to price the offering of 9.0 million shares of our common stock at $142.00 and granted the underwriters in the offering a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 1.3 million shares of our common stock at the same price.  On May 12, 2021, the underwriters exercised the option to purchase an additional 1.3 million shares.  The offering closed on May 17, 2021 and 10.3 million shares of our common stock were issued for net proceeds, after underwriting discounts and other expenses related to this offering, of $1,437.9 million.  We used the net proceeds of this offering related to the 2051 Notes to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable in connection with the Willis Re transaction. At-the-Market Equity Program - On November 15, 2022, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, pursuant to which we may offer and sell, from time to time, up to 3,000,000 shares of our common stock through Morgan Stanley as sales agent.  We intend to use the net proceeds of sales under this program to fund future acquisitions from time to time or for general corporate purposes.  Pursuant to the agreement, shares may be sold by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions, including on the New York Stock Exchange, at market prices prevailing at the time of sale, at prices related to the prevailing market prices, or at negotiated prices, in block transactions, or as otherwise agreed upon by us and Morgan Stanley.  During the quarter ended December 31, 2023, we did not sell shares of our common stock under the program. Common Stock Issuances - Another source of liquidity to us is the issuance of our common stock pursuant to our stock option and employee stock purchase plans.  Proceeds from the issuance of common stock under these plans were $120.2 million in 2023 and $123.1 million in 2022.  On May 10, 2022, our stockholders approved the 2022 Long-Term Incentive Plan (which we refer to as the LTIP), which replaced our previous stockholder-approved 2017 Long-Term Incentive Plan.  All of our officers, employees and non‑employee directors are eligible to receive awards under the LTIP.  Awards which may be granted under the LTIP include non‑qualified and incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units and performance units, any or all of which may be made contingent upon the achievement of performance criteria.  Stock options with respect to 12.2 million shares (less any shares of restricted stock issued under the LTIP - 2.8 million shares of our common stock were available for this purpose as of December 31, 2023) were available for grant under the LTIP at December 31, 2023.  Our employee stock purchase plan allows our employees to purchase our common stock at 95% of its fair market value.  Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock related to these plans have contributed favorably to net cash provided by financing activities in the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, and we believe this favorable trend will continue in the foreseeable future. We have a qualified contributory savings and thrift 401(k) plan covering the majority of our domestic employees.  For eligible employees who have met the plan’s age and service requirements to receive matching contributions, we historically have matched 100% of pre-tax and Roth elective deferrals up to a maximum of 5.0% of eligible compensation, subject to federal limits on plan contributions and not in excess of the maximum amount deductible for federal income tax purposes.  Beginning with the match paid in 2021, the amount matched by the company will be discretionary and annually determined by management.  Employees must be employed and eligible for the plan on the last day of the plan year to receive a matching 61 contribution, subject to certain exceptions enumerated in the plan document.  Matching contributions are subject to a five-year graduated vesting schedule and can be funded in cash or company stock.  We expensed (net of plan forfeitures) $86.0 million and $73.8 million related to the plan in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  During 2022, our board of directors authorized the 5.0% employer matching contributions on eligible compensation to the 401(k) plan for the 2022 plan year to be funded with our common stock, which was funded in February 2023.  During 2023, our board of directors authorized the 5.0% employer matching contributions on eligible compensation to the 401(k) plan for the 2023 plan year to be funded with our common stock, which is expected to be funded in February 2024. Other Liquidity Matters Letters of Credit and Other Guarantees We have entered into a number of arrangements whereby our performance on certain obligations is guaranteed by a third party through the issuance of a letter of credit.  We had total letters of credit outstanding of $21.2 million at December 31, 2023 and $13.0 million at December 31, 2022.  These letters of credit secure our self-insurance deductibles on our own insurance programs, allow certain of our captive operations to meet minimum statutory surplus requirements, lease security deposits and collateral related to premium and claim funds held in a fiduciary capacity.  See Note 17 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of these obligations and commitments. Earnout Obligations Substantially all of the purchase agreements related to the acquisitions we do contain provisions for potential earnout obligations.  For all of our acquisitions made in the period from 2020 to 2023 that contain potential earnout obligations, such obligations are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and are included on that basis in the recorded purchase price consideration for the respective acquisition.  The amounts recorded as earnout payables are primarily based upon estimated future potential operating results of the acquired entities over a two- to three-year period subsequent to the acquisition date.  The aggregate amount of the maximum earnout obligations related to these acquisitions was $2,009.8 million, of which $1,294.2 million was recorded in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2023 based on the estimated fair value of the expected future payments to be made, of which approximately $564.8 million can be settled in cash or stock at our option and $729.4 million must be settled in cash. Apart from commitments, guarantees, and contingencies, as disclosed herein and in Note 17 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties.  See “Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2023 are comprised of principal payments on debt, interest payments on debt, operating leases, pension benefit plan and purchase obligations. Operating leases are primarily comprised of leased office space throughout the world.  As leases expire, we do not anticipate difficulty in negotiating renewals or finding other satisfactory space if the premise becomes unavailable.  In certain circumstances, we may have unused space and may seek to sublet such space to third parties, depending upon the demands for office space in the locations involved.  See Note 15 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of these operating lease obligations. Defined benefit pension plan obligations include estimates of our minimum funding requirements pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and other regulations.  We may make additional discretionary contributions.  See Note 13 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional information required to be disclosed relating to our defined benefit pension plan. Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding on us, and that specifies all significant terms, including the goods to be purchased or services to be rendered, the price at which the goods or services are to be rendered, and the timing of the transactions.  Most of our purchase obligations are related to purchases of information technology services, marketing arrangements or other service contracts.  We had no other cash requirements from known contractual obligations and commitments that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or 62 future material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  See Note 17 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of these contractual obligations. Outlook - We believe that we have sufficient capital and access to additional capital to meet our short- and long-term cash flow needs. Critical Accounting Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements.  We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions, including those relating to the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, right-of-use assets, investments (including our IRC Section 45 investments), income taxes, revenue recognition, deferred costs, stock-based compensation, claims handling obligations, retirement plans, litigation and contingencies.  We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances.  Such estimates and assumptions could change in the future as more information becomes known, which could impact the amounts reported and disclosed herein.  We believe the following significant accounting estimates may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.  See Note 1 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for other significant accounting policies.  See Note 2 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or potential future impact on the our financial results, if determinable. Revenue Recognition Description The primary source of revenues for our brokerage services is commissions from underwriting enterprises, based on a percentage of premiums paid by our clients, or fees received from clients based on an agreed level of service usually in lieu of commissions.  These commissions and fees revenues are substantially recognized at a point in time on the effective date of the associated policies when control of the policy transfers to the client, as well as deferring certain revenues to reflect delivery of services over the contract period.  Whether we are paid a commission or a fee, the vast majority of our services are associated with the placement of an insurance (or insurance-like) contract.  Accordingly, we recognize approximately 80% of our commission and fee revenues on the effective date of the underlying insurance contract.  The amount of revenue we recognize is based on our costs to provide our services up and through that effective date, including an appropriate estimate of our profit margin on a portfolio basis.  Based on the proportion of additional services we provide in each period after the effective date of the insurance contract, including an appropriate estimate of our profit margin, we recognize approximately 15% of our commission and fee revenues in the first three months, and the remaining 5% thereafter. For supplemental revenues certain underwriting enterprises may pay us additional revenues for the volume of premium placed with them and for insights into our sales pipeline, our sales capabilities or our risk selection knowledge.  These amounts are in excess of the commission and fee revenues discussed above, and not all business we place with underwriting enterprises is eligible for supplemental revenues.  Unlike contingent revenues, discussed below, these revenues are primarily a fixed amount or fixed percentage of premium of the underlying eligible insurance contracts.  For supplemental revenue contracts based on a fixed percentage of premium, our obligation to the underwriting enterprise is substantially completed upon the effective date of the underlying insurance contract and revenue is fully earned at that time.  For supplemental revenue contracts based on a fixed amount, revenue is recognized ratably over the contract period consistent with the performance of our obligations, almost always over an annual term. For contingent revenues certain underwriting enterprises may pay us additional revenues for our sales capabilities, our risk selection knowledge, or our administrative efficiencies.  These amounts are in excess of the commission or fee revenues discussed above, and not all business we place with participating underwriting enterprises is eligible for contingent revenues.  Unlike supplemental revenues, also discussed above, these revenues are variable, generally based on growth, the loss experience of the underlying insurance contracts, and/or our efficiency in processing the business.  We generally operate under calendar year contracts, but we do not receive these revenues from the underwriting enterprises until the following calendar year, generally in the first and second quarters, after verification of the performance indicators outlined in the contracts.  Accordingly, during each reporting period, we must make our best estimate of amounts we have earned using historical averages and other factors to project such revenues. See Revenue Recognition and Contracts with Customers in Notes 1 and 4 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements. 63 Judgments and Uncertainties For commissions and fees, these periods may be different than the underlying premium payment patterns of the insurance contracts, but the vast majority of our services are fully provided within one year of the insurance contract effective date.  For supplemental and contingent commissions, we base our estimates each period on a contract-by-contract basis where available.  In certain cases, it is impractical to assess a very large number of smaller contingent revenue contracts, so we use a historical portfolio estimate in aggregate.  Because our expectation of the ultimate contingent revenue amounts to be earned can vary from period to period, especially in contracts sensitive to loss ratios, our estimates might change significantly from quarter to quarter.  For example, in circumstances where our revenues are dependent on a full calendar year loss ratio, adverse loss experience in the fourth quarter could not only negate revenue earnings in the fourth quarter, but also trigger the need to reverse revenues previously recognized during the prior quarters.  Variable consideration is recognized when we conclude, based on all the facts and information available at the reporting date, that it is probable that a significant revenue reversal will not occur in future periods. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to recognize revenue.  As noted above, estimates are made based on historical experience and other factors.  The vast majority of our brokerage contracts and service understandings are for a period of one year or less, and historically, the difference between actual experience compared to estimated performance has not been significant to the quarterly or annual financial statements.  We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to recognize revenue during the past three fiscal years. Income Taxes Description We estimate total income tax expense based on statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in various jurisdictions in which we earn income.  Income tax includes an estimate for withholding taxes on earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be remitted to the U.S. but does not include an estimate for taxes on earnings considered to be indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiary.  Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse.  Valuation allowances are recorded when it is likely a tax benefit will not be realized for a deferred tax asset.  We record unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for known or anticipated tax issues based on our analysis of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due.  See Income Taxes in Notes 1 and 19 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements. Judgments and Uncertainties Changes in projected future earnings could affect the recorded valuation allowances in the future.  Our calculations related to income taxes contain uncertainties due to judgment used to calculate tax liabilities in the application of complex tax regulations across the tax jurisdictions where we operate.  Our analysis of unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties based on judgment used to apply the more likely than not recognition and measurement thresholds. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions Changes in tax laws and rates could affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future.  Other than those potential impacts, we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the tax related balances or valuation allowances. However, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities.  To the extent we prevail in matters for which unrecognized tax benefit liabilities have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our recorded unrecognized tax benefit liabilities, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected.  An unfavorable tax settlement would require use of our cash and generally result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution.  A favorable tax settlement would generally be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution. Impairment of Goodwill Description Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether a quantitative goodwill test is necessary.  If it is determined, based on qualitative factors, the fair value of the reporting unit may be more likely than not less than its carrying amount or if significant changes to macro-economic factors related to the reporting unit have occurred that could materially impact fair value, a quantitative goodwill impairment test would be required.  The quantitative test compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount.  Additionally, we can elect to forgo the qualitative assessment and perform the quantitative test.  Upon performing the quantitative test, if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill.  We have elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for goodwill.  However, we could 64 be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill outside of the required annual assessment if, among other things, we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of the business or a sustained decline in market capitalization. Judgments and Uncertainties We estimate the fair value of our reporting units considering the use of various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being an income approach (discounted cash flow method) and another technique being a market approach (guideline public company method), which use significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy.  We include assumptions about revenue growth, operating margins, discount rates and valuation multiples which consider our budgets, business plans, economic projections and marketplace data, and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction.  Assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. Generally, we utilize operating margin assumptions based on future expectations, operating margins historically realized in the reporting units’ industries and industry marketplace valuation multiples.  See Intangible Assets in Notes 1 and 7 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements. Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We have not made material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate impairment of goodwill during the last three years.  During fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, all of our material reporting units passed the impairment analysis. Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units and indefinite life intangible assets are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, market EBITDAC comparables and credit ratings.  While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units and indefinite life intangibles, it is possible a material change could occur.  If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, it could result in material impairments of our goodwill. Impairment of Amortizable Intangible Assets Description Amortizable intangible assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Examples include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use the asset, a change in its physical condition, or an unexpected change in financial performance. When evaluating amortizable intangible assets for impairment, we compare the carrying value of the asset to the asset’s estimated undiscounted future cash flows.  An impairment is indicated if the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset.  The impairment is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the asset. We recorded impairment charges related to amortizable intangible assets of $3.5 million, $2.0 million, and $17.6 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  See Intangible Assets in Notes 1 and 7 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements. Judgments and Uncertainties Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to judgment in assumptions, including useful lives and intended use of assets, observable market valuations, forecasted revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates based on budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and marketplace data that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows to determine fair value. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate the impairment of amortizable intangible assets during the last three fiscal years.  We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate impairments or useful lives of amortizable intangible assets.  However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. 65 Earnout Obligations Description Substantially all of the purchase agreements related to the acquisitions we do contain provisions for potential earnout obligations.  The amounts recorded as earnout payables, which are primarily based upon the terms of the purchase agreements and the estimated future operating results of the acquired entities over a two- to three-year period subsequent to the acquisition date, are measured at fair value as of the acquisition date and are included on that basis in the recorded purchase price consideration.  We will record subsequent changes in these estimated earnout obligations, including the accretion of discount, in our consolidated statement of earnings when incurred. Judgments and Uncertainties The fair value of these earnout obligations is based on the present value of the expected future payments to be made to the sellers of the acquired entities in accordance with the provisions outlined in the respective purchase agreements, which is a Level 3 fair value measurement.  In determining fair value, we estimate the acquired entity’s future performance using financial projections developed by management for the acquired entity and market participant assumptions that were derived for revenue growth and/or profitability.  Revenue growth rates generally ranged from 5.0% to 20.0% for our 2023 acquisitions.  We estimated future payments using the earnout formula and performance targets specified in each purchase agreement and the financial projections just described.  We then discounted these payments to present value using a risk-adjusted rate that takes into consideration market based rates of return that reflect the ability of the acquired entity to achieve the targets.  The discount rates generally ranged from 6.7% to 9.6% for our 2023 acquisitions. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions While management believes those expectations and assumptions are reasonable, they are inherently uncertain.  Changes in financial projections, market participant assumptions for revenue growth and/or profitability, or the risk-adjusted discount rate, would result in a change in the fair value of recorded earnout obligations.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on our 2023 business combinations. Business Combinations Description We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that once control of a business is obtained, 100% of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributed to noncontrolling interests, be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values.  Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. We use various models to determine the value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed such as discounted cash flow to value amortizable intangible assets. For significant acquisitions we may use independent third-party valuation specialists to assist us in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  See Note 3 to our 2023 consolidated financial statements for additional discussion on our 2023 business combinations. Judgments and Uncertainties Significant judgment is often required in estimating the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, particularly intangible assets.  We make estimates and assumptions about projected future cash flows including sales growth, operating margins, attrition rates, and discount rates based on historical results, business plans, expected synergies, perceived risk and marketplace data considering the perspective of marketplace participants. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment as different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives. Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions While management believes those expectations and assumptions are reasonable, they are inherently uncertain.  Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions, which could result in subsequent impairmen ts.