********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties – many of which are beyond our control – that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below, together with all the other information included in this Form 10-K, in evaluating us, our ordinary shares and our senior notes. If any of the events, risks or uncertainties below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Any such adverse effect may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline, and as a result, you could lose all or part of your investment in us. Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may also be materially and adversely affected by events, risks and uncertainties not known to us or events, risks and uncertainties that we currently believe to be immaterial. Economic, Market and Financial Risks Our business operations and performance have been, and are expected to continue to be, impacted by global macroeconomic factors. Ongoing macroeconomic challenges could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. Macroeconomic challenges, including ongoing supply chain disruptions and delays, material, electronic component and labor shortages, cost inflation, rising interest rates and volatility in the capital markets, have impacted, and may continue to impact, our business, our customers and our suppliers. These challenges may also make it more challenging for us to manufacture and deliver products to our customers, could cause periodic production interruptions and supply constraints, impact our ability to forecast and plan for future business activities and, if not adequately managed, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, demand for our products and solutions is impacted by the strength of institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets, which are sensitive to national, regional and local economic conditions. As a result, deterioration of these macroeconomic conditions (or weakness in these conditions existing for an extended period of time), a decline in general economic activity or recession in the U.S. or global economy could slow demand for new construction or remodeling projects and result in our customers cancelling or delaying orders, which in turn could erode average selling prices and result in declines in our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Increased prices and inflation could negatively impact our margin performance and our financial results. Elevated levels of inflation, including rising prices for raw materials, parts and components, freight, packaging, labor and energy, increases our costs to manufacture and distribute our products and services, and we may be unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. We do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against volatility in commodity prices; however, we utilize firm purchase commitments, where possible, to help mitigate risk. The pricing of some materials, parts and components we use is based on market prices. To mitigate this exposure, we may use annual price contracts to minimize the impact of inflation and to benefit from deflation. Additionally, we are exposed to fluctuations in other costs such as packaging, freight, labor and energy prices. If inflation in these costs increases beyond our ability to control for them through measures such as implementing operating efficiencies, or we are not able to increase prices to sufficiently offset the effect of various cost increases without negatively impacting customer demand, our margin performance and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Our global operations subject us to economic risks. Our businesses operate around the world in various geographic regions and product markets. Additionally, we procure various products, parts, components and services from supplier partners located throughout the world. Our global operations depend on products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in Australia, Canada, China, Europe, Mexico, New Zealand and the Middle East. The political, economic and regulatory environments in which we operate are becoming increasingly volatile and uncertain. Accordingly, we are subject to multiple risks that are inherent in operating and sourcing globally, including: • Changes to trade agreements, sanctions, import and export regulations, including imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas, and customs duties; • Changes in applicable tax regulations and interpretations; • Economic downturns; • Social and political unrest, instability, national and international conflict, including war, border closures, civil disturbances, terrorist acts and other geographical disputes and uncertainties; • Government measures to restrict business activity, for example, to prevent the spread of a communicable disease; • Changes in laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints in various jurisdictions; • Limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; 15 • Sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; • Difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • Difficulty in enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems; and • Difficulty in transporting materials, components and products. These risks have increased our cost of doing business in the U.S. and internationally. These risks may also increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, increase our effective tax rate, increase the cost of our products, limit our ability to sell products and services in certain markets, reduce our operating margin and cash flows and/or negatively impact our ability to compete. Our business relies on the institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets. Demand for our security products and solutions relies on the institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets, which are marked by cyclicality based on overall economic conditions, including consumer confidence and disposable income, corporate and government spending, work-from-home trends, availability of credit and demand for new housing and infrastructure. Weakness or instability in one or more of these markets may cause current and potential customers to delay or cancel major capital projects or otherwise choose not to make purchases, which could negatively impact the demand for our products and solutions and erode average selling prices. Currency exchange rate fluctuations have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. See "Part II, Item 7A. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Approximately 25% of our 2022 Net revenues were derived outside the U.S., and we expect sales to non-U.S. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated Net revenues. Although we may enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative fair values of currencies occur from time to time and in some instances, as was the case in 2022, have had a significant impact on our Net revenues. We do not hedge against all our currency exposure, and therefore, our results of operations will continue to be susceptible to impacts from currency fluctuations. We also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies into U.S. dollars for our Consolidated Financial Statements based on applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies may have a material impact on the value of these items in our Consolidated Financial Statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. Further, certain of our businesses may invoice customers in a currency other than its functional currency, or may be invoiced by suppliers in a currency other than its functional currency, which could result in unfavorable translation effects on these businesses and our results of operations. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. At December 31, 2022, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $1.4 billion and $110 million, respectively. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), we are required to annually assess our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. In addition, interim assessments must be performed for these and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Significant disruptions to our business or end market conditions, protracted economic weakness (including a potential economic downturn or recession), unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures or market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairment charges to our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible or other long-lived assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods when recognized. The capital and credit markets are important to our business. Continued instability in U.S. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent ratings agencies, could reduce our access to capital markets, increase our costs of borrowing or adversely impact our ability to obtain favorable financing terms in the future. In particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to execute potential merger and acquisition plans, make other investments or fully execute our business plans and strategy. Our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. Limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services, delay institutional, commercial and/or residential construction and remodeling projects and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. 16 There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. We had approximately $2.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2022. Included in this total was $69 million outstanding under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "2021 Revolving Facility") that permits borrowings of up to $500 million. A portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to servicing our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, payment of dividends, share repurchases or future business opportunities or other strategic investments. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control, such as the credit ratings assigned to us by independent ratings agencies or our ability to access capital markets on acceptable terms. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends, sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In such event, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Additionally, at December 31, 2022, our borrowings included a variable rate term loan facility (the "2021 Term Facility", and together with the 2021 Revolving Facility, the "2021 Credit Facilities"). The 2021 Credit Facilities had a combined outstanding variable rate balance of $306.5 million at December 31, 2022, which exposes us to variable interest rate risk. Applicable variable interest rates have increased throughout 2022, resulting in increased Interest expense. We are also exposed to the risk of continued rising interest rates to the extent we fund our short or long-term financing needs with variable-rate borrowings under the 2021 Revolving Facility. If variable base rates under the 2021 Credit Facilities continue to increase in the future, our Interest expense could increase as well. For more details about our interest rate exposure under the 2021 Credit Facilities, please see Part II. Item 7A. Strategic and Operational Risks Increased competition, including from technological developments, could adversely affect our business. The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants, including multi-national, regional and small, local companies. We primarily compete on the basis of quality, innovation, expertise, effective channels to market, breadth of product offering and price. We may be unable to effectively compete on all these bases. Further, in a number of our product offerings, we compete with our retail customers and technology partners who use their own private labels. If we are unable to anticipate evolving trends in the market or the timing and scale of our competitors’ activities and initiatives, including increased competition from private label brands, the demand for our products and services could be negatively impacted. In addition, we compete in an industry that is experiencing the convergence of mechanical, electronic and digital products. Technology and innovation play significant roles in the competitive landscape. Our success depends, in part, upon the research, development and implementation of new technologies and products including obtaining, maintaining and enforcing necessary intellectual property protections. Securing and maintaining key partnerships and alliances, recruiting and retaining highly skilled and qualified employee talent and having access to technologies, services, intellectual property and solutions developed by others will play a significant role in our ability to effectively compete. The continual development of new technologies by existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors with significant resources, could adversely affect our ability to sustain operating margins and desirable levels of sales volumes. To remain competitive, we must develop new products and service offerings and respond to new technologies in a timely manner. Our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. We must develop and commercialize new products and services that meet the varied and evolving needs of our customers and end-users in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. End users are continually adopting more advanced technologies in their facilities and homes, accelerated by the increasing adoption of IoT technologies and connected devices, which will require us to devote significant effort and resources to the development, maintenance and enhancement of the IT systems and other infrastructure required to support and/or enhance the functionality of our electronic products and solutions. The speed of development by our competitors and new market entrants is increasing. We cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. Investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. We also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. Changes in customer and consumer preferences and the inability to maintain beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. We have significant customers, particularly major retailers, although no one customer represented 10% or more of our total Net revenues in any of the past three fiscal years. The loss or material reduction of business, either due to a reduction in demand 17 from one or more of our significant customers, or our inability to timely meet any elevated level of customer demand for various reasons, the lack of success of sales initiatives or changes in customer preferences or loyalties for our products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, major customers who are volume purchasers are much larger than us and have strong bargaining power with their suppliers. This limits our ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. Furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. We also sell our products through various trade channels, including traditional retail and e-commerce channels. If we or our major customers are not successful in navigating the shifting consumer preferences to distribution channels such as e-commerce, our expected future revenues may be negatively impacted. If our products or solutions fail to meet certification and specification requirements, are defective, cause, or are alleged to have caused, bodily harm or injury, or otherwise fall short of end-users' needs and expectations, our business may be negatively impacted. The security and access control product markets we serve often have unique certification and specification requirements, reflecting local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs. While we strive to meet all certification and specification requirements, if any of our products or solutions do not meet such requirements, or contain, or are perceived to contain, defects or otherwise fall short of end-users' needs and expectations, fail to perform as intended, or are otherwise alleged to result in property damage, bodily injury and/or death we may become subject to personal injury lawsuits and/or product liability claims, and if found liable, may incur significant costs, which could negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, electronic security products and solutions are increasingly more sophisticated and technologically complex than the mechanical security products we sell and have an increased risk of design, cybersecurity or manufacturing defects, which could lead to recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs of inventory or other assets and significant warranty and other expenses. Product quality issues could also adversely affect the end-user experience, resulting in reputational harm, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and solutions, delay in new product and service introductions and lost sales. Further, adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could damage our reputation and negatively affect our sales. Our business and innovation strategies include making acquisitions of, and investments in, external companies. These acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful, consume significant resources or increase our exposure to cybersecurity, data privacy or other regulatory risks, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our long-term growth strategies include the acquisition of businesses or product lines to strengthen our industry position, enhance our existing set of products and services offerings or expand into adjacent markets. For example, in July 2022, we completed the acquisition of the Access Technologies business. However, we cannot provide assurance that we will identify or successfully complete acquisitions with suitable candidates in the future, nor can we provide assurance that completed or future acquisitions will be successful or otherwise achieve the anticipated strategic and financial benefits, including cost and revenue synergies. Acquisitions often place significant demands on management, operational and financial resources, which could decrease management’s capacity to focus on other important business strategies or divert resources from other parts of our business. Further, the success of future or completed acquisitions will depend, in large part, on the successful integration of operations, sales and marketing, information technology, finance and administrative operations. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to successfully integrate these new businesses. Additionally, the financing of future business acquisitions may increase our leverage, impact our credit rating and/or diminish our financial position and ability to re-invest in our existing businesses. Future acquisitions may also be dependent on our ability to access the capital and credit markets to obtain new debt or equity financing to fund the purchase price on terms that are acceptable to us. Some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be marginally profitable or unprofitable. For these businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we may need to improve their management, operations, products and market penetration or incur significant capital expenditures. We may not be successful in this regard, the costs of doing so may exceed our original estimates or we may encounter other potential difficulties. Acquisitions also involve numerous other risks, including: • Difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; • Inability to obtain regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; • Potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of us; • Difficulties competing in any new markets we may enter; • Assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities (including, but not limited to, regulatory, legal and product or personal liability claims) of acquired companies; 18 • Cybersecurity related vulnerabilities or data security incidents that may be present in the IT Systems of acquired companies, or emerge when integrating the acquired company into our IT Systems; • Dilution of interests of holders of our ordinary shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; • Labor disruptions, work stoppages or other employee-related issues, particularly if employees of the acquired companies are represented by labor unions or trade councils; and • Difficulty in integrating financial reporting systems and implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting appropriate for public companies of our size at companies that, prior to the acquisition, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies. Further, as part of our innovation strategy, from time to time we invest in start-up companies and/or development stage technology or other companies. In evaluating these opportunities, we follow a structured evaluation process that considers factors such as potential financial returns, new expertise in emerging technology and business benefits. Despite our best efforts to calculate potential return and risk, some or all of the companies we invest in may be unprofitable at the time of, and subsequent to, our investment. We may lose money in these investments, including the potential for future impairment charges on the investments, and the anticipated benefits of the technology and business relationships may be less than expected. We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our core business. We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our core business, including expanding our products or service offerings, seeking to expand our products and services into new international markets, investing in new and unproven technologies and forming new alliances with companies to develop and distribute our products and services. We can offer no assurance that any such business opportunities will prove successful. Certain international markets may be slower than our established markets in adopting our services and products, and our operations in such markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. Among other negative effects, our investment in new business opportunities may exceed the returns we realize. New investments could have higher cost structures than our current business, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital. In the event that working capital requirements exceed operating cash flow, we may be required to draw on the 2021 Revolving Facility or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available. Additionally, our pursuit of new business opportunities that diverge from our core business may expose us to different risks and uncertainties other than those described in this “Risk Factors” section or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to the risks outlined above, expansion into certain new markets may require us to compete with local businesses with greater knowledge of the market, including the tastes and preferences of end-users, and higher market shares. Our strategic initiatives, including enterprise excellence efforts among other significant capital expenditure projects, may not achieve the improvements or financial returns we expect. We utilize a number of tools to improve efficiency and productivity. Implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and may prove to be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected. Additionally, from time to time we undertake substantial capital projects for varying reasons, such as to increase production capacity or to insource certain products, parts or components. We invest in areas we believe best align with our business strategies and that will optimize future returns. However, there can be no assurance that all our planned enterprise excellence projects or other capital expenditures will be fully implemented, or if implemented, will realize the expected improvements or financial returns. We may not be able to effectively manage and implement restructuring initiatives or other organizational changes. We have, from time to time, restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce and manufacturing footprint, and may need to do so in the future, in response to market or product changes, performance issues, changes in strategy, acquisitions and/or other internal or external considerations. These restructuring activities and other organizational changes often result in increased restructuring costs, diversion of management’s time and attention from daily operations, cybersecurity and other operational risks and temporarily reduced productivity. If we are unable to successfully manage and implement restructuring and other organizational changes, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these activities or do so within the expected timeframe. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other organizational changes and our results of operations could be negatively affected. The effects of global climate change or other unexpected events, including global health crises, may disrupt our operations and have a negative impact on our business. The effects of global climate change, such as extreme weather conditions and natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects, or the occurrence of unexpected events including wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and other severe hazards in the countries where we operate or sell products and services, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These events could disrupt our operations by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing, cause physical damage or closure of our manufacturing sites or distribution centers, lead to loss of human capital and/or cause temporary or long-term disruption in the manufacturing or delivery of products and services to customers. These events and disruptions could also adversely affect our customers’ and 19 suppliers’ financial condition or ability to operate, resulting in reduced customer demand, delays in payments received or supply chain disruptions. Further, these events and disruptions could increase insurance and other operating costs, including impacting our decisions regarding construction of new facilities to select areas less prone to climate change risks and natural disasters, which could result in indirect financial risks passed through the supply chain or other price modifications to our products and services. Additionally, as we have experienced in recent years, the COVID-19 pandemic created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption, both for our business (and many of our customers and suppliers) and the U.S. and global economy more generally. It also led, both directly and indirectly, to significant operating challenges, including disruptions to our and our suppliers’ operations, shortages of electronic and other parts and components, freight delays, increased labor shortages and logistical challenges. Although most governments have eased or eliminated their restrictions on travel and social interactions, and lifted non-essential business closures, several jurisdictions in which we have operations, such as China, have public health and government mandates that restrict business activities. These mandates and restrictions have, and could continue to have, an impact on our business and operations, and on the operations of some of our suppliers. Global health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic or any other actual or threatened epidemic, pandemic, or outbreak and spread of a communicable disease or virus in the countries where we operate or sell products and provide services could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Further, any national, state or local government mandates or other orders taken to minimize the spread of a global health crisis could restrict our ability to conduct business as usual, as well as the business activities of our key customers and suppliers, including the potential for labor shortages. In particular, the ultimate extent of the impact of any epidemic, pandemic or other global health crisis on our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology and operational technology systems. We rely extensively on information technology and operational technology systems, networks and services including hardware, software, firmware and technological applications and platforms (collectively, "IT Systems") to manage and operate our business from end-to-end, including ordering and managing materials from suppliers, design and development, manufacturing, marketing, selling and shipping to customers, invoicing and billing, managing our banking and cash liquidity systems, managing our enterprise resource planning and other accounting and financial systems and complying with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. There can be no assurance that our current IT Systems will function properly. We have invested and will continue to invest in improving our IT Systems. Some of these investments are significant and impact many important operational processes and procedures. There is no assurance that newly implemented IT Systems will improve our current systems, improve our operations or yield the expected returns on the investments. In addition, the implementation of new IT Systems may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and cause disruptions in our operations and, if not properly implemented and maintained, negatively impact our business. If our IT Systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired. We currently rely on third-party service providers for many of the critical elements of our global information and operational technology infrastructure, and their failure to provide effective support for such infrastructure could increase our cybersecurity risk or otherwise negatively impact our business and financial results. We have outsourced many of the critical elements of our global information and operational technology infrastructure to third-party service providers in order to achieve efficiencies. If such service providers experience a disruption due to a cyberattack or other internal or external factors, or they do not perform or perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected efficiencies and may have to incur additional costs to address failures in providing service by the service providers. Depending on the function involved, such non-performance, ineffective performance or failures of service may lead to business disruptions, processing inefficiencies or security breaches. Disruptions or breaches of our information systems could adversely affect us. Despite our implementation of cybersecurity measures, which have focused on prevention, mitigation, resilience and recovery, our network and products, including access solutions, may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, malicious codes, malware, ransomware, phishing, social engineering, denial of service, hacking, break-ins and similar disruptions. Cybersecurity attacks and intrusion efforts are continuous and evolving, and in certain cases they have been successful at the most robust institutions. The scope and severity of risks that cyber threats present have increased dramatically and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, ransomware attacks, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data or premises, exploiting weaknesses related to vendors or other third parties that could be exploited to attack our systems, denials of service and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as we face regulatory, reputational and litigation risks resulting from potential cyber incidents, as well as the potential of incurring significant remediation costs. Further, while we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and exclusions, cover certain aspects of our cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover our losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. 20 Our daily business operations also require us to collect and/or retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to customers, employees, suppliers and business partners within our networking infrastructure including data from individuals subject to the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and/or customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect such data, the loss or breach of such data due to various causes including material security breaches, catastrophic events, extreme weather, natural disasters, power outages, system failures, computer viruses, improper data handling, programming errors, unauthorized access and employee error or malfeasance could result in wide reaching negative impacts to our business. As such, the ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals. In addition, we operate in an environment where there are different and potentially conflicting data privacy laws and regulations in effect or expected to go into effect in the future, including regulations related to devices connected through IoT, in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, and we must understand and comply with such laws and regulations while ensuring our data is secure. Our networking infrastructure and related assets may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers, employee error or malfeasance or other unforeseen activities. Such issues could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. To the extent that such disruptions occur, and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these disruptions in a timely manner, they may cause delays in the manufacture or shipment of our products and the cancellation of customer orders and, as a result, our business operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in a possible loss of business or brand reputation. Our ability to successfully grow and expand our business depends on our ability to recruit and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce. Our ability to successfully grow and expand our business is dependent upon our ability to recruit and retain a workforce with the skills necessary to develop, manufacture and deliver the products and services desired by our customers. We need highly skilled and qualified personnel in multiple areas, including engineering, sales, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, business development, strategy and management. We must therefore continue to effectively recruit, retain and motivate highly qualified, skilled and diverse personnel to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. A shortage of these employees for various reasons, including intense competition for skilled employees, labor shortages, increased labor costs, candidates’ preference to work remotely, changes in laws and policies regarding immigration and work authorizations or any government or public health mandates in jurisdictions where we have operations that may result in workforce attrition and difficulty with recruiting, may jeopardize our ability to grow and expand our business. We continue to experience increased labor shortages at some of our production and distribution facilities. While we have historically experienced some level of ordinary course turnover of employees, the COVID-19 pandemic increased turnover and the ensuing negative macroeconomic environment exacerbated labor shortages and contributed to further increases in employee turnover. Labor shortages and increased turnover rates have led to, and could in the future lead to, increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet customer demand and increased wage rates to attract and retain employees and could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate our production facilities or otherwise operate at full capacity. An overall or prolonged labor shortage, lack of skilled labor, increased turnover or sustained level of wage inflation could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Disruptions in our global supply chain, including product manufacturing and logistical services provided by our supplier partners, may negatively impact our business. We procure certain products, including raw materials and other commodities, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, as well as parts, components (including electronic components) and logistical services from supplier partners located throughout the world. Our ability to meet our customers' needs and achieve cost targets depends on our ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including supplier execution and certain sole supplier or sole manufacturing arrangements. Our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks including reduced control over product costs and delivery. Additionally, because not all of our supply arrangements provide for guaranteed supply and some key parts and components may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are also subject to supply and pricing risks, which could negatively impact our margin performance, results of operations, inventory levels and cash flows. If we are unable to effectively manage these relationships, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, shortages of materials, labor, electronic and other components, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, freight delays and other supply chain constraints and disruptions, or otherwise fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and deliver certain of our products to our customers could be impaired and our business could be harmed. 21 Legal and Compliance Risks We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputational matters. Our reputation and the reputation of our brands, including the perception held by our customers, end-users, business partners, investors, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business are influenced by various factors. There is an increased focus from our stakeholders, as well as regulatory authorities both within the U.S. and internationally, on ESG practices and disclosure. If we fail, or are perceived to have failed, in any number of ESG matters, such as environmental stewardship, DEI, good corporate governance, workplace conduct and support for local communities, or to effectively respond to changes in, or new, legal, regulatory or reporting requirements concerning climate change or other sustainability concerns, we may be subject to regulatory fines and penalties, and our reputation or the reputation of our brands may suffer. Further, we have made several public commitments regarding our intended reduction of carbon emissions, including a commitment to achieve carbon neutral emissions by 2050. Although we intend to meet these commitments, we may be required to expend significant resources to do so, which could increase our operational costs. Further, there can be no assurance of the extent to which any of our commitments will be achieved, or that any future investments we make to achieve such commitments will meet investor, legal and/or any other regulatory expectations and requirements. If we are unable to meet our commitments, we could incur adverse publicity and reaction from investors, advocacy groups or other stakeholders, which could adversely impact our reputation and brand perception. Such damage to our reputation and the reputation of our brands may negatively impact our business, demand for our products and services, our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, negative or inaccurate postings or comments on social media or networking websites about our company or our brands could generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or the reputation of our brands. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about product quality, safety, corporate social responsibility or other matters, sentiments toward the Company or our products could be negatively impacted, and our financial results could suffer. Our brands are important assets of our businesses, and violation of our trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. Our brands and trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to our success and competitive position. Unauthorized use of our trademarks may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with relationships with our customers and increase litigation costs. There can be no assurance that our on-going effort to protect our brand and trademark rights will prevent all violations. Material legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements imposed against us or our assets could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are currently, and may in the future become, involved in legal proceedings, claims and disputes incidental to the operation of our business in the ordinary course. Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, environmental, product and warranty liability, claims for property damage, physical harm or bodily injury, antitrust, intellectual property, data protection, privacy and labor and employment matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. As required by GAAP, we establish reserves based on our assessment of the probability of contingencies and whether we are able to reasonably estimate the expected range of loss. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other contingencies may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve, and we may incur additional costs or be required to make material payments beyond our previously recorded reserves. Allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties could negatively affect us. We may be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights by third parties. In particular, we often compete in areas having extensive intellectual property rights owned by others, and we have become subject to claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. In general, if it is determined that one or more of our technologies, products or services infringes the intellectual property rights owned by others, we may be required to cease marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost or to take other actions to avoid infringing such intellectual property rights. The litigation process is costly and subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. Adverse intellectual property litigation or claims of infringement against us may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We are subject to regulation under a variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies including laws related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption, export and import compliance, competition and anti-money laundering due to our global operations. We provide compliance training for our employees and have other controls and procedures in these areas. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any improper conduct could damage our reputation and subject us to, among other things, civil and 22 criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation, adverse publicity and a general loss of investor or public confidence. Our operations are subject to regulatory risks. Our U.S. and non-U.S. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including fire and building codes and EHS standards. We have incurred, and will be required to continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Changes to, or changes in interpretations of, current laws and regulations, including climate change legislation or other environmental mandates, could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. Altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. In the event a regulatory authority concludes that we are not or have not at all times been in full compliance with these laws or regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners of real property or operators of manufacturing facilities for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at such properties or at properties at which parties have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain U.S. federal and state laws and certain non-U.S. laws are retroactive, strict and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notifications from U.S. and non-U.S. governmental agencies, including the EPA and similar state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of current and formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial action. These agencies may require that we reimburse the government for its costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and cleanup of these sites, including by providing compensation for natural resource damage claims from such sites. For more information, see "Item 1. Business – Regulatory Matters." While we have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws and have accrued for costs related to current remedial efforts, our costs of compliance, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates. We may also be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cost recovery actions for remediation of facilities in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. As a global business, we have a relatively complex tax structure, and there is a risk that tax authorities will disagree with our tax positions. Since we conduct operations worldwide through our subsidiaries, we are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the countries in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between us and our affiliates be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm's length transaction and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the tax allocation. Although uniform transfer pricing standards are emerging in many of the countries in which we operate, there is still a relatively high degree of uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent that any tax authority disagrees with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties. Our tax returns are subject to review by taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we believe we have provided for all tax exposures, the ultimate outcome of a tax review could differ materially from our provisions. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Our future effective tax rate and cash tax obligations could be adversely affected by shifts in our mix of earnings in countries with varying statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities or changes in tax laws, regulations, interpretations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, interpretations and rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed, recommended or implemented changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our effective tax rate or cash tax obligations in countries where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. 23 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) has led international efforts in recent years to devise a permanent two-pillar solution to address the tax challenges arising from the digitization of the economy. Pillar One focuses on nexus and profit allocation. Pillar Two provides for a global minimum effective corporate tax rate of 15%, applied on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. We currently expect to be outside the scope of the Pillar One proposals. In December 2021, the OECD published detailed rules that define the scope of the Pillar Two proposal and, based on our current understanding of the minimum revenue thresholds contained in these rules, we expect to be within their scope and implementation. A number of countries are currently proposing to implement core elements of the Pillar Two proposal by the start of 2024, and on December 15, 2022, the European Union adopted a Council Directive which requires certain Pillar Two rules to be transposed into member states’ national laws starting in 2024. As a consequence, our global effective tax rate could be materially impacted by such legislation, or any resulting local country legislation enacted in response to any potential global minimum tax rates. Additionally, the European Commission has been investigating whether various tax regimes or private tax rulings provided by a country to particular taxpayers may constitute State Aid. We cannot currently predict the outcome of any of these potential changes or investigations in any jurisdiction, but if any of the above occurs and impacts us, this could increase our tax burden and/or effective tax rate. We continue to examine the impact the above items may have on our business, including their impact on the amount of tax we must pay. Risks Related to Our Incorporation in Ireland Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. The U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Act 2014 of Ireland, as amended, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S. In addition, Irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. Also, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash. At our annual general meeting of shareholders, our shareholders authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 33% of our issued ordinary shares and further authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 5% of such shares for cash without first offering them to our existing shareholders. Both of these authorizations will expire after a certain period unless renewed by our shareholders, and we cannot guarantee that the renewal of these authorizations will always be approved. If the Directors' authority to issue ordinary shares is not renewed, then we may be limited in our ability to use our shares, for example, as consideration for acquisitions. Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under the tax laws of many jurisdictions or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. The realization of any tax benefit related to our incorporation and tax residence in Ireland could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the tax authorities of many jurisdictions. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or our effective tax rate. Moreover, other legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments, which could increase our tax liability. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. While we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or our effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. In particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding our incorporation in Ireland, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. 24 Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, we are required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax of 25% from dividends paid to our shareholders. In the majority of cases, shareholders residing in the U.S. will not be subject to Irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain Irish dividend withholding tax forms. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could discourage the investment in our stock and adversely impact the price of our shares. Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax. Dividends paid in respect of our shares generally are not subject to Irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from Irish dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Allegion. Our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Allegion. Certain provisions in our Memorandum and Articles of Association, among other things, could prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association contains provisions to deter takeover practices, inadequate takeover bids and unsolicited offers. These provisions include, amongst others: • A provision of our Articles of Association which generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder (being (i) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of our voting shares or (ii) an affiliate or associate of us that has at any time within the last five years been the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of our voting shares), subject to certain exceptions; • Rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • The right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval in certain circumstances, subject to applicable law; and • The ability of our Board of Directors to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors. We believe these provisions will provide some protection to our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is in our best interests and our shareholders' best interests. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, several mandatory provisions of Irish law could prevent or delay an acquisition of us. For example, Irish law does not permit shareholders of an Irish public limited company to take action by written consent with less than unanimous consent. We also will be subject to various provisions of Irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in our shares in certain circumstances. Also, Irish companies, including us, may alter their Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association only with the approval of at least 75% of the votes of the company’s shareholders cast in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the company.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Organization We are a leading global provider of security products and solutions operating in two segments: Allegion Americas and Allegion International. We sell a wide range of security products and solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities worldwide, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, retail, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our leading brands include CISA, Interflex, LCN, Schlage, SimonsVoss and Von Duprin. Recent Developments Industry Trends and Outlook Throughout 2022 we experienced strong demand for our non-residential products and services in our Allegion Americas segment. Our ability to meet this elevated level of customer demand improved substantially as the year progressed, due in part to our actions taken to address industry-wide supply-chain challenges (particularly shortages of electronic components), as well as improving availability of non-electronic parts and materials. Further, in response to the persistent, elevated levels of inflation seen throughout the year, we implemented a series of pricing initiatives across our global businesses. Not only did these pricing initiatives significantly contribute to revenue growth in 2022, they also helped mitigate the inflationary pressures on our cost base. We expect this pricing momentum to continue to drive revenue growth and help offset the impact of inflation into 2023. While 2022 began with similar strong demand for our residential products in our Allegion Americas segment, macroeconomic conditions had a more challenging impact on demand as the year progressed. A combination of elevated inflation and lower consumer sentiment impacted sales volumes of residential products within our Allegion Americas segment. We also experienced a softening of demand throughout many of the Eurozone economies during the second half of 2022, reflecting increased economic and geopolitical concerns in this region, which impacted several of our businesses in our Allegion International segment. While supply chain challenges around the availability of electronic parts and components persist, and will likely continue to impact our ability to meet the elevated levels of demand for our electronic security products into 2023, we remain focused on providing exceptional service and innovation to our customers. Over the course of 2022, we began to realize the benefits from our measures taken to mitigate operational and logistical inefficiencies caused by the supply chain challenges, such as re-engineering product designs and configurations to accept alternate electronic components and developing alternate sources of supply. We continue to invest in business initiatives to drive future growth and add value through seamless access and explore various options to enhance financial performance while minimizing disruption to customers and our overall business. The macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and uncertainties noted above will likely continue to affect us in numerous and evolving ways, the full impact of which on our business, financial condition and results of operations will continue to depend on future developments that are beyond our control and we may not be able to accurately predict. These trends and uncertainties and their potential impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as other risks, trends and uncertainties that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations are described further under "Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors". 2022 and 2021 Significant Events Acquisition of the Access Technologies business On July 5, 2022, we completed the acquisition of the Access Technologies business for a closing purchase price of $923.1 million. This acquisition was financed by the net proceeds from the issuance of our 5.411% Senior Notes, together with borrowings under the 2021 Revolving Facility. The Access Technologies business has been integrated into our Allegion Americas segment The Access Technologies business is a leading manufacturer, installer and service provider of automatic entrance solutions in North America, primarily in the U.S. and Canada. Its diversified customer base centers on non-residential settings, including retail, healthcare, education, commercial offices, hospitality and government. This acquisition helps us create a more comprehensive portfolio of access solutions, with the addition of automated entrance solutions. Additionally, the Access 29 Technologies business adds an expansive service and support network throughout the U.S. and Canada, broadening our solutions to national, regional and local customers, and complementing our existing strengths in these non-residential markets. Since the acquisition date and through December 31, 2022, the Access Technologies business generated $185.9 million in Net revenues. Divestiture of Milre In September 2022, we sold Milre Systek Co. Ltd. ("Milre") in South Korea for an immaterial amount. As a result of the sale, we recorded a net loss on divestiture of $7.6 million. Financing activities On June 22, 2022, Allegion US Holding Company Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Allegion US Hold Co"), issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.411% Senior Notes due 2032 (the “5.411% Senior Notes”). The 5.411% Senior Notes require semi-annual interest payments on January 1 and July 1, beginning January 1, 2023, and will mature on July 1, 2032. We incurred and deferred $5.9 million of discounts and financing costs associated with the 5.411% Senior Notes, which will be amortized to Interest expense over their 10-year term, as well as $4.3 million of third party financing costs that were recorded within Interest expense on the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended December 31, 2022. On November 18, 2021, we entered into a new $750.0 million unsecured credit agreement, consisting of the $250.0 million 2021 Term Facility and the $500.0 million 2021 Revolving Facility. The proceeds of $250.0 million from the 2021 Term Facility were primarily used to repay in full our previously outstanding unsecured Term Facility. 2022 Dividends and Share Repurchases We paid quarterly dividends of $0.41 per ordinary share to shareholders on record as of March 16, 2022, June 16, 2022, September 16, 2022, and December 16, 2022, for a total of $143.9 million and repurchased approximately 0.5 million ordinary shares for approximately $61.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. 30 Results of Operations - For the years ended December 31 The discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in our results of operations for the years presented and form the basis used by management to evaluate the financial performance of the business. For a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, see “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 15, 2022. Net Revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased by 14.1%, or $404.5 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the following: The increase in Net revenues was driven by improved pricing across our major businesses, our acquisition of the Access Technologies business and higher volumes in our Allegion Americas segment. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, lower volumes in our Allegion International segment and a divestiture in each of the prior and current year. Increased pricing was the result of multiple pricing initiatives implemented to help mitigate the impact of the persistent, elevated levels of inflation. We will continue to monitor the inflationary pressures to our businesses and address them through pricing initiatives where appropriate. Pricing includes increases or decreases of price, including discounts, surcharges and/or other sales deductions, on our existing products and services. Volume includes increases or decreases of revenue due to changes in unit volume of existing products and services, as well as new products and services. Cost of Goods Sold For the year ended December 31, 2022, Cost of goods sold as a percentage of Net revenues increased to 59.6% from 58.0%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the following: 31 Cost of goods sold as a percentage of Net revenues increased primarily due to the impact inflation had on Cost of goods sold, which exceeded the beneficial impacts from pricing and productivity, lower gross margins associated with our acquired Access Technologies business, increased investment spending, higher restructuring and acquisition and integration costs year-over-year and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. These increases to Cost of goods sold as a percentage of Net revenues were partially offset by favorable product mix, due to increased volumes in the Allegion Americas segment. Inflation in excess of pricing and productivity includes the impact to Costs of goods sold from pricing, as defined above, in addition to productivity and inflation. Productivity represents improvements in unit costs of materials and cost reductions related to improvements to our manufacturing design and processes. Inflation includes unit costs for the current period compared to the average actual cost for the prior period, multiplied by current year volumes. Volume/product mix represents the impact due to increases or decreases of revenue due to changes in unit volume, including new products and services, including the effect of changes in the mix of products and services sold on Cost of goods sold. Selling and Administrative Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2022, Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net revenues decreased to 22.5% from 23.5%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the following: Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net revenues decreased primarily due to productivity improvements exceeding the impact of inflation, as well as favorable volume leverage and the beneficial impact from current and prior year acquisition and divestiture activity. These decreases were partially offset by a year-over-year increase in acquisition and integration expenses, which were primarily related to our acquisition of the Access Technologies business, and increased investment spending. Productivity in excess of inflation includes the impact from reductions in selling and administrative expenses due to productivity projects and current period costs of ongoing selling and administrative functions compared to the same ongoing expenses in the prior period. Volume leverage represents the contribution margin related to changes in sales volume, excluding the impact of price, productivity, mix and inflation. Expenses related to increased head count for strategic initiatives, new facilities or significant spending for strategic initiatives or new product and channel development, are captured in Investment spending in the table above. Operating Income/Margin Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased $56.2 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, and Operating margin decreased to 17.9% from 18.5%, due to the following: The increase in Operating income was driven by pricing improvements in excess of inflation and productivity, favorable volume/product mix and the contribution to Operating income from our acquired Access Technologies business. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, increased investment spending and a year-over-year increase in restructuring and acquisition and integration expenses, which were primarily related to our acquisition of the Access Technologies business. The decrease in Operating margin was primarily due to the year-over-year increase in restructuring and acquisition expenses, unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, increased investment spending and the dilutive impact to Operating 32 margin from our Access Technologies business. These decreases were partially offset by pricing improvements in excess of inflation and productivity, favorable volume/product mix and the positive impact to operating margin from recent divestitures. Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased $25.7 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to interest on our 5.411% Senior Notes and the 2021 Revolving Facility, as well as $4.3 million of third-party costs related to the financing of the Access Technologies business acquisition. The rise in interest rates over the course of 2022 also contributed to a higher weighted-average interest rate on our variable rate outstanding indebtedness. Loss on Divestiture As discussed above, in September 2022 we sold Milre for an immaterial amount, resulting in a net loss of $7.6 million. Other Income, net The components of Other income, net, for the years ended December 31 were as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2022, Other income, net decreased $32.4 million compared to 2021, primarily due to a non-operating investment gain of $20.7 in 2021 that did not recur in 2022. This gain is included within Other in the table above. Also contributing to the decrease in Other income, net, are a prior year gain of $6.4 million from the sale of an equity method investment that did not recur in 2022 and a decrease in other realized and unrealized investment gains year-over-year. Provision for Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2022, our effective tax rate was 10.9%, compared to 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the favorable resolutions of uncertain tax positions, changes in jurisdictional tax rates and other discrete tax benefits in 2021 that have not recurred in 2022 and the mix of income earned in higher tax rate jurisdictions. Review of Business Segments We operate in and report financial results for two segments: Allegion Americas and Allegion International. These segments represent the level at which our chief operating decision maker reviews our financial performance and makes operating decisions. Segment operating income is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for resource allocation, performance reviews and compensation. For these reasons, we believe Segment operating income represents the most relevant measure of Segment profit and loss. Our chief operating decision maker may exclude certain charges or gains, such as corporate charges and other special charges, to arrive at a Segment operating income that is a more meaningful measure of profit and loss upon which to base our operating decisions. We define Segment operating margin as Segment operating income as a percentage of the segment's Net revenues. 33 Segment Results of Operations - For the years ended December 31 Allegion Americas Our Allegion Americas segment is a leading provider of security products, services and solutions throughout North America. The segment sells a broad range of products and solutions including, locks, locksets, portable locks, key systems, door controls and systems, exit devices, doors, accessories, electronic security products, access control systems and software and service solutions to customers in commercial, institutional and residential facilities, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, retail, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. This segment’s primary brands are LCN, Schlage, Von Duprin and Stanley Access Technologies, which we utilize with permission in accordance with the terms of the Access Technologies acquisition agreement ("Stanley" is the property of Stanley Logistics L.L.C). Net revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased by 23.1%, or $479.4 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the following: The increase in Net revenues was driven by significantly improved pricing, higher volumes for our non-residential products and our Access Technologies business acquisition. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements and lower volumes for our residential products. Increased pricing was the result of multiple pricing initiatives implemented to help mitigate the impact of persistent, elevated levels of inflation. We will continue to monitor the inflationary pressures to our businesses and address them through pricing initiatives where appropriate. Net revenues from non-residential products (excluding Net revenues from our acquired Access Technologies business), increased by a low twenties percent compared to the prior year, driven by improved pricing and higher volumes. Strong demand throughout 2022 and improvements around the availability of materials and components, driven in part by our actions to mitigate these supply-chain challenges, helped drive the increase in volumes compared to 2021. Net revenues from residential products decreased by a low single digits percent compared to the prior year. Increased pricing was offset by lower volumes during the year. During the second half of 2022, we experienced a softening in market demand for our residential products, due in part to elevated inflation and lower consumer sentiment, which resulted in reduced sales volumes. Further, market conditions for new residential construction deteriorated over the latter half of 2022, due in part to a rapid and substantial increase in mortgage rates. Given these factors, we anticipate softness in demand for our residential products to continue into 2023. Growth in electronic security products and solutions is a metric monitored by management and a focus of our investors. Electronic products encompass both residential and non-residential products, and include all electrified product categories including, but not limited to, electronic and electrified locks, access control systems and electronic and electrified door controls and systems and exit devices. Net revenues from the sale of electronic products increased by a high teens percent compared to 2021, driven by improved pricing and higher volumes. While we continue to experience delays and shortages of electronic components from key suppliers, we expect continued growth from the sale of electronic products in 2023 given the combination of our pricing initiatives and our actions taken to mitigate these delays and shortages. 34 Operating income/margin Segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased $88.3 million, and Segment operating margin decreased to 24.0% from 25.3% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the following: The increase in Segment operating income was primarily driven by pricing improvements in excess of inflation and productivity, favorable volume/product mix and the contribution to Segment operating income from our acquired Access Technologies business. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, increased investment spending and a year-over-year increase in acquisition and integration expenses, which were primarily related to our acquisition of the Access Technologies business. The decrease in Segment operating margin was primarily due to the year-over-year increase in acquisition and integration expenses, the impact to Segment operating margin from our Access Technologies business, increased investment spending and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. These decreases were partially offset by favorable volume/product mix. Allegion International Our Allegion International segment provides security products, services and solutions primarily throughout Europe, Asia and Oceania. The segment offers end-users a broad range of products, services and solutions including locks, locksets, portable locks, key systems, door controls and systems, exit devices, doors, electronic security products, access control systems, time and attendance and workforce productivity solutions, among other software and service solutions. This segment’s primary brands are AXA, Bricard, Briton, CISA, Gainsborough, Interflex and SimonsVoss. Net revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022, decreased by 9.4%, or $74.9 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the following: The decrease in Net revenues was driven by lower volumes and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to most of the currencies in which we do business throughout our Allegion International segment. Both a prior year and current year divestiture also contributed slightly to the decrease in Net revenues. These decreases were partially offset by improved pricing. As discussed above, softening demand throughout much of the Eurozone in 2022 has impacted several of our businesses in our Allegion International segment. Additionally, COVID-19 related lockdowns in China throughout the year also contributed to lower volumes. While we anticipate pricing initiatives to continue to positively contribute to revenue growth in 2023, volume growth will likely continue to be tempered until prevailing macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions improve. Operating income margin Segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2022, decreased $14.1 million, and Segment operating margin decreased to 9.5% from 10.4% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the following: 35 The decreases in Segment operating income and Segment operating margin were primarily driven by unfavorable volume/product mix, unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, increased investment spending and a year-over-year increase in restructuring and acquisition expenses. These decreases were partially offset by pricing and productivity improvements in excess of inflation and both prior year and current year acquisition and divestiture activity. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Outlook, Sources and Uses Our primary source of liquidity is cash provided by operating activities. Cash provided by operating activities is used to invest in new product development and fund capital expenditures and working capital requirements. Our ability to generate cash from our operating activities, our unused availability under the 2021 Revolving Facility and our access to the capital and credit markets enable us to fund these capital needs, execute our long-term growth strategies and return value to our shareholders. Further, our business operates with strong operating cash flows, low leverage and low capital intensity, providing financial flexibility, including sufficient access to credit markets. Our short-term financing needs primarily consist of working capital requirements, restructuring initiatives, capital spending, dividend payments and principal and interest payments on our long-term debt. Long-term financing needs depend largely on potential growth opportunities, including potential acquisitions, repayment or refinancing of our long-term obligations and repurchases of our ordinary shares. Of our total outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2022, approximately 85% incurs fixed-rate interest and is therefore not exposed to the risk of rising variable interest rates. Based upon our operations, existing cash balances and unused availability under the 2021 Revolving Facility, as of December 31, 2022, we expect cash flows from operations to be sufficient to maintain a sound financial position and liquidity and to meet our financing needs for at least the next 12 months. Further, we do not anticipate any covenant compliance challenges with any of our outstanding indebtedness for at least the next 12 months. We also believe existing availability under the 2021 Credit Facilities and access to credit and capital markets are sufficient to achieve our longer-term strategic plans. The following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended December 31. For additional details, see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating activities : Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2022, decreased by $29.1 million compared to 2021, driven primarily by changes in working capital. Investing activities : Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022, increased by $962.5 million compared to 2021, primarily due to $923.1 million of cash paid for our acquisition of the Access Technologies business, as well as an increase of $18.6 million in capital expenditures compared to 2021. Financing activities : Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022, changed by $966.3 million compared to 2021, primarily due to the $600.0 million issuance of our 5.411% Senior Notes to help finance the acquisition of the Access Technologies business. Additionally, cash used to repurchase shares was $351.8 million lower in 2022 compared to 2021. 36 Capitalization At December 31, long-term debt and other borrowings consisted of the following: As of December 31, 2022, we have an unsecured Credit Agreement in place, consisting of the $250.0 million 2021 Term Facility, of which $237.5 million was outstanding at December 31, 2022, and the 2021 Revolving Facility (together with the 2021 Term Facility, the “2021 Credit Facilities”). The 2021 Credit Facilities mature on November 18, 2026. The 2021 Term Facility will amortize in quarterly installments at the following rates: 1.25% per quarter starting March 31, 2022 through March 31, 2025, 2.5% per quarter starting June 30, 2025 through September 30, 2026, with the balance due on November 18, 2026. Principal amounts repaid on the Term Facility may not be reborrowed. The 2021 Revolving Facility provides aggregate commitments of up to $500.0 million, which includes up to $100.0 million for the issuance of letters of credit. On July 1, 2022, we borrowed $340.0 million under the 2021 Revolving Facility to partially fund our acquisition of the Access Technologies business. We subsequently repaid $271.0 million, resulting in $69.0 million of borrowings outstanding on the 2021 Revolving Facility as of December 31, 2022. We also had $13.2 million of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2022. Outstanding borrowings under the 2021 Revolving Facility may be repaid at any time without premium or penalty, and amounts repaid may be reborrowed. Outstanding borrowings under the 2021 Credit Facilities accrue interest at our option of (i) a Bloomberg Short-Term Bank Yield Index (“BSBY”) rate plus an applicable margin, or (ii) a base rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement) plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin ranges from 0.875% to 1.375% depending on our credit ratings. At December 31, 2022, outstanding borrowings under the 2021 Credit Facilities accrued interest at BSBY plus a margin of 1.125%, resulting in an interest rate of 5.498%. The Credit Agreement also contains negative and affirmative covenants and events of default that, among other things, limit or restrict our ability to enter into certain transactions. In addition, the Credit Agreement requires us to comply with a maximum leverage ratio as defined within the agreement. As of December 31, 2022, our leverage ratio of approximately 2.5 was significantly below the covenant requirement, and we do not anticipate any potential concerns for at least the next 12 months. On June 22, 2022, we issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.411% Senior Notes due 2032 (the “5.411% Senior Notes”). The 5.411% Senior Notes require semi-annual interest payments on January 1 and July 1, beginning January 1, 2023, and will mature on July 1, 2032. We incurred and deferred $5.9 million of discounts and financing costs associated with the 5.411% Senior Notes, which will be amortized to Interest expense over their 10-year term, as well as $4.3 million of third party financing costs that were recorded within Interest expense. As of December 31, 2022, we also have $400.0 million outstanding of 3.200% Senior Notes due 2024 (the “3.200% Senior Notes”), $400.0 million outstanding of 3.550% Senior Notes due 2027 (the “3.550% Senior Notes”) and $400.0 million outstanding of 3.500% Senior Notes due 2029 (the “3.500% Senior Notes”, and all four senior notes collectively, the "Senior Notes"). The 3.200% Senior Notes, 3.550% Senior Notes and 3.500% Senior Notes all require semi-annual interest payments on April 1 and October 1 of each year, and will mature on October 1, 2024, October 1, 2027, and October 1, 2029, respectively. Historically, the majority of our earnings were considered to be permanently reinvested in jurisdictions where we have made, and intend to continue to make, substantial investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our global operations. At December 31, 2022, we analyzed our working capital requirements and the potential tax liabilities that would be incurred if certain subsidiaries made distributions and concluded that no material changes to our historic permanent reinvestment assertions were required. Scheduled future principal repayments on our outstanding indebtedness can be found in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Expected principal and interest payments related to our long-term indebtedness in 2023 amount to $12.6 million and $90.9 million, respectively, given our current level of indebtedness and effective interest rates as of December 31, 2022. 37 Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments In addition to the scheduled principal and interest payments discussed above, our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations: Purchase Commitments – We occasionally enter into short-term, firm purchase commitments to mitigate pricing risk related to certain of our commodity, parts and component purchases, which represent commitments under enforceable and legally binding agreements. Such purchase commitments are made in the normal course of business and are not anticipated to materially impact our liquidity or financial position over the next 12 months. Leases – We have numerous real estate and equipment leasing arrangements for which we are a lessee. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information as to the short and long-term lease liabilities included within the Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as future minimum lease payments for 2023 and future years. Defined Benefit Plans – Our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. We seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contributions and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. Global asset allocation decisions are based on a dynamic approach whereby a plan's allocation to fixed income assets increases as the funded status increases. We monitor plan funded status, asset allocation and the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans regularly in addition to investment manager performance. None of our defined benefit plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to volatility in the markets. At December 31, 2022, we had net pension liabilities of $12.1 million, which consist of plan assets of $490.7 million and benefit obligations of $502.8 million. It is our objective to contribute to our pension plans in order to ensure adequate funds are available to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. At December 31, 2022, the funded status of our U.S. pension plans increased to 97.8% from 97.2% at December 31, 2021. The funded status for our non-U.S. pension plans decreased to 97.4% at December 31, 2022 from 107.7% at December 31, 2021. The funded status for all of our pension plans at December 31, 2022 decreased to 97.6% from 103.0% at December 31, 2021. We currently expect to contribute approximately $12 million to our plans worldwide in 2023. Determining the costs and obligations associated with our defined benefit plans is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected returns on plan assets, employee mortality and turnover rates. Changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension benefit cost. An estimated 0.5% rate decline in the discount rate would have increased net periodic pension benefit cost by approximately $0.6 million in 2022, while a 0.5% rate decline in the estimated return on assets would have increased net periodic pension benefit cost by approximately $2.4 million. For further details on defined benefit plan activity, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes – At December 31, 2022, we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $45.2 million and $11.0 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax, although we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing over which these liabilities might be paid. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and tax authority disputes. Contingent Liabilities – We are involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related and product liability matters. We believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Guarantor Financial Information Allegion US Hold Co is the issuer of the 3.200% Senior Notes, 3.550% Senior Notes and 5.411% Senior Notes and is the guarantor of the 3.500% Senior Notes. Allegion plc (the “Parent”) is the issuer of the 3.500% Senior Notes and is the guarantor of the 3.200% Senior Notes, 3.550% Senior Notes and 5.411% Senior Notes. Allegion US Hold Co is directly or indirectly 100% owned by the Parent and each of the guarantees of Allegion US Hold Co and the Parent is full and unconditional and joint and several. The 3.200% Senior Notes, 3.550% Senior Notes and 5.411% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Allegion US Hold Co and rank equally with all of Allegion US Hold Co’s existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The guarantee of the 3.200% Senior Notes, 3.550% Senior Notes and 5.411% Senior Notes is the senior unsecured obligation of the Parent and ranks equally with all of the Parent’s existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The 3.500% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Parent and rank equally with all of the Parent’s existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The guarantee of the 3.500% Senior Notes is the senior unsecured obligation of Allegion US Hold Co and ranks equally with all of Allegion US Hold Co's existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. Each guarantee is effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness of the Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to indebtedness and other liabilities of the 38 subsidiaries of the Guarantor, none of which guarantee the notes. The obligations of the Guarantor under its Guarantee are limited as necessary to prevent such Guarantee from constituting a fraudulent conveyance under applicable law and, therefore, are limited to the amount that the Guarantor could guarantee without such Guarantee constituting a fraudulent conveyance; this limitation, however, may not be effective to prevent such Guarantee from constituting a fraudulent conveyance. If the Guarantee was rendered voidable, it could be subordinated by a court to all other indebtedness (including guarantees and other contingent liabilities) of the Guarantor, and, depending on the amount of such indebtedness, the Guarantor’s liability on its Guarantee could be reduced to zero. In such an event, the notes would be structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of the Guarantor. For further details, terms and conditions of the Senior Notes refer to the Company’s Forms 8-K filed October 2, 2017, September 27, 2019, and June 22, 2022. The following tables present the summarized financial information specified in Rule 1-02(bb)(1) of Regulation S-X for each issuer and guarantor. The summarized financial information has been prepared in accordance with Rule 13-01 of Regulation S-X. Selected Condensed Statement of Comprehensive Income Information (a) Transactions with related parties and subsidiaries include intercompany interest and fees. Selected Condensed Balance Sheet Information Critical Accounting Estimates Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. These estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from estimates. If updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical: • Goodwill – Goodwill is tested annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is, more likely than not, less than its carrying 39 amount. Recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and starts with a comparison of the carrying amount of a reporting unit to its estimated fair value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a goodwill impairment charge will be recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. As quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair values is based on two valuation techniques, a discounted cash flow model (income approach) and a market multiple of earnings (market approach), with each method being weighted in the calculation. The income approach relies on our estimates of revenue growth rates, margin assumptions and discount rates to estimate future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. These assumptions are subject to varying degrees of judgment and complexity. Estimates of future revenue growth rates and margin assumptions represent our best estimates of future cash flows given our expectations of market growth for the security products industry in the specific markets in which we operate, as well as factors such as our market positioning, brand strength, pricing and marketing efforts and other growth and productivity opportunities and initiatives. Discount rate assumptions represent our best estimates of market participant adjusted weighted-average costs of capital. Although these assumptions represent our best estimates as of the assessment date, certain factors could potentially create variances in these estimates, including, but not limited to: • Decreases in estimated market sizes or market growth rates due to greater than expected declines in volumes, pricing pressures or disruptive technology; • Declines in our market share and penetration assumptions due to increased competition or an inability to develop or launch new products; • The impacts of market volatility, including but not limited to, impacts of global pandemics, greater than expected inflation, supply chain disruption and delays, declines in pricing, reductions in volumes or fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • The level of success of on-going and future research and development efforts, including those related to acquisitions, and increases in the research and development costs necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and launch new products; and • Volatility in market interest rates that could impact the selection of an appropriate discount rate. The market approach requires determining an appropriate peer group, which is utilized to derive estimated fair values of our reporting units based on selected market multiples. The market approach reflects the market’s expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the selected peer group companies and the subject reporting units. While market multiples are based on observable, arm’s-length evidence of value, these assumptions are still subject to inherent uncertainty, as the peer-group companies may differ in significant ways from one or more of our reporting units in terms of size, growth or business characteristics. The critical accounting estimates and assumptions discussed above, include our estimates of revenue growth rates and margin assumptions, discount rates, our selection of an appropriate peer group and selected market multiples. These estimates and assumptions are considered critical, as they are subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity. The selection of an applicable peer group has not significantly changed in recent years. Forecasted revenue growth rates and margin assumptions are updated annually and often fluctuate from year to year due to a myriad of factors, such as our assessment of the macroeconomic conditions throughout the major markets in which we do business, navigating the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain challenges, elevated levels of inflation in recent years and pricing initiatives to offset inflation, market acceptance of new product innovation, investments in productivity projects, restructuring efforts, among other economic, strategic and operational factors impacting our businesses. Discount rate and market multiple assumptions are similarly updated annually, based on our best estimates of market participants, which typically include observable, arm's length-evidence of value, where possible. While we make every effort to estimate fair value as accurately as possible with the information available at the assessment date, changes in assumptions and estimates may affect the estimated fair value of the reporting unit and could result in impairment charges in future periods. During our most recent annual impairment analysis, none of our reporting units were determined to be at risk of impairment. • Indefinite-lived intangible assets – Similar to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate the fair value of the asset is, more likely than not, less than its carrying amount. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined on a relief from royalty methodology, which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. The present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. Any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. The critical assumptions utilized in our annual impairment analysis for indefinite-lived intangible assets are the royalty rates and discount rates, which often differ amongst our various indefinite-lived assets. We assess the appropriateness of each royalty rate assumption annually, based on our assessment of observable market royalty rates and an analysis of the profitability of the primary business that owns or otherwise uses the indefinite-lived asset. Discount rate assumptions typically consider the discount rate conclusions for 40 the reporting unit in which an underlying business operates, plus an incremental spread, where appropriate, to consider size, country or other company-specific risk. A significant change in any or a combination of the assumptions used to estimate fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values. • Income taxes – We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-U.S. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. The recoverability of our deferred tax assets, which we consider to be a critical estimate, is reviewed regularly by considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. Where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to future tax benefits. We establish valuation allowances against the realizability of any deferred tax assets based on our consideration of all available evidence, both positive and negative, using a “more likely than not” standard. This assessment considers the nature, frequency and amount of recent losses, the duration of statutory carryforward periods and tax planning strategies. Although our assessments of the valuation and recoverability of our deferred tax assets can change given a change in facts and circumstances (such as a change in a statutory tax rate), in making such judgments and estimates, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. The provision for income taxes also involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a tax authority with respect to that return. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters and will adjust our estimates if significant events so dictate. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the Provision for income taxes in the period the matter is finally resolved. • Business combinations – The accounting for business combinations involves a considerable amount of judgment and estimation, including the identification of and fair values determined for acquired intangible assets, which typically include trade names, customer relationships and completed technologies. The determination of fair values of acquired intangible assets involves projections of future revenues and cash flows that are either discounted at an estimated discount rate or measured at an estimated royalty rate; fair values of other acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including potential contingencies; and the useful lives of the acquired assets. Due to the level of judgment and estimation required, in the case of significant acquisitions, we normally obtain the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist in estimating fair values of acquired tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities. An income approach or market approach (or both) is utilized in accordance with accepted valuation models to determine fair value. The determination of fair value of acquired assets typically requires the use of assumptions that include projections developed using historical information, internal forecasts, available industry and market data, estimates of revenue growth rates, profitability, customer attrition and discount and royalty rates, which are estimated at the time of acquisition, considering the perspective of marketplace participants. While we believe expectations and assumptions utilized for historical business combinations have been reasonable, they are inherently uncertain, and unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances occasionally do occur, and may occur in the future, which could affect the accuracy and validity of such assumptions. For our acquisition of the Access Technologies business in 2022, we believe the critical assumptions that significantly impacted recorded amounts for identifiable intangible assets include the financial projections of future performance of the business, the royalty rate assumption utilized in determining the fair value of the finite-lived trade name asset and the allocation of revenues by customer type and attrition rate assumptions utilized in determining the fair value of the customer relationship asset. The royalty rate assumption utilized in the valuation of the trade name asset was determined based on a review of market royalty rates and an analysis of the Access Technologies business’ profitability. An increase or decrease of 1% in the royalty rate assumption would have resulted in an approximate $15 million change in the value ascribed to the trade name asset. The attrition rate assumption utilized in the valuation of the customer relationship asset was determined based on a detailed review of customer specific data for the Access Technologies business spanning multiple years, combined with our estimation of the likelihood of these trends continuing for the foreseeable future. An increase or decrease of 1% in the attrition rate assumption would have resulted in an approximate $15-20 million change in the value ascribed to the customer relationship asset. The impact of future business combinations on our financial condition or results of operations may also be materially impacted by the change in or initial selection of assumptions and estimates, in addition to events and circumstances 41 subsequent to the acquisition that are not reasonably anticipated when finalizing our purchase accounting estimates and assumptions. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements.