********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We discuss our expectations regarding future performance, events and outcomes in this Form 10-K, quarterly and annual reports, press releases and other written and oral communications. All statements except for historical and present factual information are “forward-looking statements” and are based on financial data and business plans available only as of the time the statements are made, which may become outdated or incomplete. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and investors must recognize that events could significantly differ from our expectations. You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below, together with all the other information included in this Form 10-K, in evaluating us, our ordinary shares and our senior notes. If any of the risks below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Any such adverse effect may cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline, and as a result, you could lose all or part of your investment in us. Our business may also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties not known to us or risks that we currently believe to be immaterial. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or other factors. Strategic and Operational Risks Our normal business operations have been, and are expected to continue to be, adversely impacted by the global COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 outbreak, which was declared by the WHO as a pandemic in March 2020, and preventative measures taken to contain or mitigate this pandemic have caused, and are continuing to cause, business slowdowns or shutdowns in various regions around the world. This pandemic has also caused, and may continue to cause, disruption to our global supply chain and business operations, in addition to the various effects noted elsewhere within the risk factors contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Actions taken to help limit the spread of COVID-19, such as general public health decrees or other government mandates to restrict business activities and travel, avoid large gatherings or to self-quarantine, have impacted and will likely continue to impact our ability to carry out business as usual, including the temporary suspension of some of our operations, shortages in materials, reduction in customer demand, increased absenteeism, costs associated with operational changes and an extended period of remote work arrangements for some of our employees which could increase cybersecurity risks and other operational risks. Conversely, as governments ease their restrictions and social interactions increase prior to the development and distribution of an effective vaccine or treatments for COVID-19, preventative and precautionary measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risk of increased infection and could result in increased illness among our employees, business partners and others, and lead to further business interruption. In addition, a significant number of our customers, suppliers, vendors and other business partners have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. While we cannot predict the impact that this pandemic will continue to have on our customers, suppliers, vendors and other business partners and each of their financial conditions, any material adverse effects on these parties could adversely impact us. The global economic uncertainty due to this pandemic has also negatively impacted, and may continue to adversely affect, our results of operations and financial condition. For example, this pandemic has led to changes in commercial real estate occupancy, increases in work-from-home arrangements, constraints on government and institutional budgets and an uncertain business climate, which have all contributed to declines and delays in new construction and renovation activity during 2020, including in many of the commercial and institutional construction markets we serve. These challenges may be significant and continue beyond the COVID-19 pandemic, and the rate and sustainability of future growth remains uncertain, as the long-term impacts of the pandemic and related market disruption are not yet known. Additionally, as a result of the global economic disruption and uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, interim impairment tests were performed on select goodwill and indefinite-lived trade name assets in the first quarter of 2020, resulting in impairment charges of approximately $96.3 million. If the on-going economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic proves to be more severe than estimated, the economic recovery takes longer to materialize or does not materialize as strongly as anticipated, this could result in further impairment charges in the future. Despite our efforts to manage and mitigate these impacts to the Company, their ultimate impact also depends on factors beyond our knowledge or control, including the duration and severity of this pandemic, third-party actions taken to contain its spread and mitigate its public health effects, the development, distribution and acceptance of an effective vaccine and the pace of global economic recovery following containment of the spread. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, and its ultimate impact on our business is highly uncertain and difficult to predict. The continued spread of COVID-19 may have further adverse impacts on our business, operations, customer demand, supply chain, cash flow generation, financial position and liquidity and may also exacerbate other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, our management is focused on mitigating the impacts of COVID-19 which has required, and will continue to require, a large investment of time and resources, which may divert attention and resources from other business matters. 16 Increased competition, including from technological developments, could adversely affect our business. The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants, including multi-national, regional and small, local companies. We primarily compete on the basis of quality, innovation, expertise, effective channels to market, breadth of product offering and price. We may be unable to effectively compete on all these bases. Further, in a number of our product offerings, we compete with our retail customers and technology partners who use their own private labels. If we are unable to anticipate evolving trends in the market or the timing and scale of our competitors’ activities and initiatives, including increased competition from private label brands, the demand for our products and services could be negatively impacted. In addition, we compete in an industry that is experiencing the convergence of mechanical, electronic and digital products.  Technology and innovation play significant roles in the competitive landscape. Our success depends, in part, upon the research, development and implementation of new technologies and products including obtaining, maintaining and enforcing necessary intellectual property protections. Securing and maintaining key partnerships and alliances, recruiting and retaining highly skilled and qualified employee talent and having access to technologies, services, intellectual property and solutions developed by others will play a significant role in our ability to effectively compete. The continual development of new technologies by existing and new competitors, including non-traditional competitors with significant resources, could adversely affect our ability to sustain operating margins and desirable levels of sales volumes. To remain competitive, we must develop new products and respond to new technologies in a timely manner. Our growth is dependent, in part, on the development, commercialization and acceptance of new products and services. We must develop and commercialize new products and services that meet the varied and evolving needs of our customers and end-users in order to remain competitive in our current and future markets and in order to continue to grow our business. The speed of development by our competitors and new market entrants is increasing. We cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be successfully commercialized in a timely manner, if ever, or, if commercialized, will result in returns greater than our investment. Investment in a product or service could divert our attention and resources from other projects that become more commercially viable in the market. We also cannot provide any assurance that any new product or service will be accepted by the market. Changes in customer and consumer preferences and the inability to maintain beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. We have significant customers, particularly major retailers, although no one customer represented 10% or more of our total Net revenues in any of the past three fiscal years. The loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives or changes in customer preferences or loyalties for our products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, major customers who are volume purchasers are much larger than us and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. This limits our ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. Furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. We also sell our products through various trade channels, including traditional retail and e-commerce channels. If we or our major customers are not successful in navigating the shifting consumer preferences to distribution channels such as e-commerce, our expected future revenues may be negatively impacted. If our products or solutions fail to meet certification and specification requirements, are defective, or otherwise fall short of end-users' needs and expectations, our business may be negatively impacted. The security and access control product markets we serve often have unique certification and specification requirements, reflecting local regulatory requirements and highly variable end-user needs. While we strive to meet all certification and specification requirements, if any of our products or solutions do not meet such requirements, or contain, or are perceived to contain, defects or otherwise fall short of end-users' needs and expectations, we may incur significant costs and our business, results of operations or financial condition may be negatively impacted. Additionally, as end-users have continued to adopt newer technologies in their facilities and homes, accelerated by the increasing adoption of IoT technologies, growth in sales of electronic security products and solutions are expected to outperform growth in sales of mechanical security products. Electronic security products and solutions are increasingly more sophisticated and technologically complex than the mechanical security products we sell, and have an increased risk of design or manufacturing defects, which could lead to product liability claims, recalls, product replacements or modifications, write-offs 17 of inventory or other assets and significant warranty and other expenses. Product quality issues can also adversely affect the end-user experience, resulting in reputational harm, loss of competitive advantage, poor market acceptance, reduced demand for products and solutions, delay in new product and service introductions and lost sales. Further, adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could damage our reputation and negatively affect our sales. Our business and innovation strategies include making acquisitions of, and investments in, external companies. These acquisitions and investments could be unsuccessful or consume significant resources, which could adversely affect our operating and financial results. We will continue to analyze and evaluate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our industry position or enhance our existing set of products and services offerings. We cannot provide assurance that we will identify or successfully complete acquisitions with suitable candidates in the future, nor can we provide assurance that completed acquisitions will be successful, including efficient integration and creation of synergies. Some of the businesses we may seek to acquire may be marginally profitable or unprofitable. For these businesses to achieve acceptable levels of profitability, we must improve their management, operations, products and market penetration. We may not be successful in this regard, and we may encounter other difficulties in integrating acquired businesses into our existing operations. Acquisitions may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, operating losses and expenses. Acquisitions also involve numerous other risks, including: • Diversion of management's time and attention from daily operations; • Difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; • Difficulties completing the transaction in a timely manner; • Difficulties realizing synergies expected to result from acquisitions; • Difficulties in obtaining and verifying the financial statements and other business information of acquired businesses; • Inability to obtain regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; • Potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of acquired companies or of us; • Difficulties competing in the new markets we enter; • Assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; • Dilution of interests of holders of our ordinary shares through the issuance of equity securities or equity-linked securities; and • Difficulty in integrating financial reporting systems and implementing controls, procedures and policies, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, appropriate for public companies of our size at companies that, prior to the acquisition, had lacked such controls, procedures and policies. Further, as part of our innovation strategy, from time to time we invest in start-up companies and/or development stage technology or other companies. In evaluating these opportunities, we follow a structured evaluation process that considers factors such as potential financial returns, new expertise in emerging technology and business benefits. Despite our best efforts to calculate potential return and risk, some or all of these companies we invest in may be unprofitable at the time of, and subsequent to, our investment. We may lose money in these investments, including the potential for future impairment charges on the investments, and the anticipated benefits of the technology and business relationships may be less than expected. We continually look to expand our services and products into new international markets, and as we do, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating services and products in such markets. In some instances, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of third-party and foreign business partners in such markets. Certain international markets may be slower than our established markets in adopting our services and products, and our operations in such markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investment. In addition to the risks outlined above, expansion into certain new markets may require us to compete with local businesses with greater knowledge of the market, including the tastes and preferences of end-users and businesses with dominant market shares. Any acquisitions or investments may ultimately not be successful, may harm our business or financial condition and/or result in impairment charges. We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our core business. We may pursue business opportunities that diverge from our core business, including expanding our products or service offerings, investing in new and unproven technologies and forming new alliances with companies to distribute our products and services. We can offer no assurance that any such business opportunities will prove successful. Among other negative effects, 18 our investment in new business opportunities may exceed the returns we realize. Additionally, any new investments could have higher cost structures than our current business, which could reduce operating margins and require more working capital. In the event that working capital requirements exceed operating cash flow, we may be required to draw on our revolving credit facility or pursue other external financing, which may not be readily available. Our enterprise excellence efforts may not achieve the improvements we expect. We utilize a number of tools to improve efficiency and productivity. Implementation of new processes to our operations could cause disruptions and may prove to be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected. There is no assurance that all of our planned enterprise excellence projects will be fully implemented, or if implemented, will realize the expected improvements. We may not be able to effectively manage and implement restructuring initiatives or other organizational changes. We have, from time to time, restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce and manufacturing footprint in response to market or product changes, performance issues, changes in strategy, acquisitions and/or other internal and external considerations. For example, we recently announced that effective January 1, 2021, our EMEA and Asia Pacific operating segments would be combined to form the new Allegion International segment. These restructuring activities and other organizational changes often result in increased restructuring costs, diversion of management’s time and attention from daily operations and temporarily reduced productivity. If we are unable to successfully manage and implement these and other organizational changes, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these activities or do so within the expected timeframe. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other organizational changes and our Net revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. Disruptions in our global supply chain, including product manufacturing and logistical services provided by supplier partners, may negatively impact our business. Our ability to meet our customers' needs and achieve cost targets depends on our ability to maintain key manufacturing and supply arrangements, including execution of supply chain optimizations and certain sole supplier or sole manufacturing arrangements. The loss or disruption of such manufacturing and supply arrangements could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have an adverse impact on our business. We procure certain products, components and logistical services from supplier partners located throughout the world. Our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays. If we are unable to effectively manage these relationships, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations or otherwise fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and deliver certain of our products to our customers could be impaired and our business could be harmed. The effects of global climate change or other unexpected events, including global health crises, may disrupt our operations and have a negative impact on our business. The effects of global climate change, such as extreme weather conditions and natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects, or the occurrence of unexpected events including wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and other severe hazards or global health crises, such as the outbreak of Ebola or the global COVID-19 pandemic, or other actual or threatened epidemic, pandemic, outbreak and spread of a communicable disease or virus, in the countries where we operate or sell products and provide services, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Extreme weather, natural disasters, power outages, global health crises or other unexpected events could disrupt our operations by impacting the availability and cost of materials needed for manufacturing, causing physical damage and partial or complete closure of our manufacturing sites or distribution centers, loss of human capital, temporary or long-term disruption in the manufacturing and supply of products and services and disruption in our ability to deliver products and services to customers. These events and disruptions could also adversely affect our customers’ and suppliers’ financial condition or ability to operate, resulting in reduced customer demand, delays in payments received or supply chain disruptions. Further, these events and disruptions could increase insurance and other operating costs, including impacting our decisions regarding construction of new facilities to select areas less prone to climate change risks and natural disasters, which could result in indirect financial risks passed through the supply chain or other price modifications to our products and services. In particular, the ultimate extent of the impact of any epidemic, pandemic or other global health crisis on our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, 19 including new information that may emerge concerning the duration and severity of such epidemic, pandemic or other global health crisis, actions taken to contain or prevent their further spread and the pace of global economic recovery following containment of the spread. We may be subject to risks relating to our information technology and operational technology systems. We rely extensively on information technology and operational technology systems, networks and services including hardware, software, firmware and technological applications and platforms (collectively, "IT Systems") to manage and operate our business from end-to-end, including ordering and managing materials from suppliers, design and development, manufacturing, marketing, selling and shipping to customers, invoicing and billing, managing our banking and cash liquidity systems, managing our enterprise resource planning and other accounting and financial systems and complying with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. There can be no assurance that our current IT Systems will function properly. We have invested and will continue to invest in improving our IT Systems. Some of these investments are significant and impact many important operational processes and procedures. There is no assurance that any newly implemented IT Systems will improve our current systems, improve our operations or yield the expected returns on the investments. In addition, the implementation of new IT Systems may cause disruptions in our operations and, if not properly implemented and maintained, negatively impact our business. If our IT Systems cease to function properly or if these systems do not provide the anticipated benefits, our ability to manage our operations could be impaired. We currently rely on third-party vendors for many of the critical elements of our global information and operational technology infrastructure and their failure to provide effective support for such infrastructure could negatively impact our business and financial results. We have outsourced many of the critical elements of our global information and operational technology infrastructure to third-party service providers in order to achieve efficiencies. If such service providers do not perform or do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected efficiencies and may have to incur additional costs to address failures in providing service by the service providers. Depending on the function involved, such non-performance, ineffective performance or failures of service may lead to business disruptions, processing inefficiencies or security breaches. Disruptions or breaches of our information systems could adversely affect us. Despite our implementation of cybersecurity measures which have focused on prevention, mitigation, resilience and recovery, our network and products, including access solutions, may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, malicious codes, malware, ransomware, phishing, social engineering, denial of service, hacking, break-ins and similar disruptions. Cybersecurity attacks and intrusion efforts are continuous and evolving, and in certain cases they have been successful at the most robust institutions. The scope and severity of risks that cyber threats present have increased dramatically and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data or premises, exploiting weaknesses related to vendors or other third parties that could be exploited to attack our systems, denials of service and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, as we face regulatory, reputational and litigation risks resulting from potential cyber incidents, as well as the potential of incurring significant remediation costs. Our daily business operations also require us to collect and/or retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to customers, employees, suppliers and business partners within our networking infrastructure including data from individuals subject to the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and/or customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect such data, the loss or breach of such data due to various causes including material security breaches, catastrophic events, extreme weather, natural disasters, power outages, system failures, computer viruses, improper data handling, programming errors, unauthorized access and employee error or malfeasance could result in wide reaching negative impacts to our business, and as such, the ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals. In addition, we operate in an environment where there are different and potentially conflicting data privacy laws and regulations in effect or expected to go into effect in the future, including regulations related to devices connected through IoT, in the various jurisdictions in which we operate, and we must understand and comply with such laws and regulations while ensuring our data is secure. 20 Our networking infrastructure and related assets may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers, employee error or malfeasance or other unforeseen activities. Such issues could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. To the extent that such disruptions occur and our business continuity plans do not effectively address these disruptions in a timely manner, they may cause delays in the manufacture or shipment of our products and the cancellation of customer orders and, as a result, our business operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in a possible loss of business or brand reputation. Our ability to successfully grow and expand our business depends on our ability to recruit and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce. Our ability to successfully grow and expand our business depends on the contributions and abilities of our employees and key management, including, for example, the ability of our sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. We must therefore continue to effectively recruit, retain and motivate key management, sales and other highly qualified, skilled and diverse personnel to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. A shortage of these key employees for various reasons, including changes in laws and policies regarding immigration and work authorizations in jurisdictions where we have operations, might jeopardize our ability to grow and expand our business. Economic, Market and Financial Risks Our global operations subject us to economic risks. We are incorporated in Ireland and operate in countries worldwide. Our global operations depend on products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in Australia, Canada, China, Europe, Korea, Mexico, New Zealand and the Middle East. The political, economic and regulatory environments in which we operate are becoming increasingly volatile and uncertain. Accordingly, we are subject to risks that are inherent in operating globally, including: • Changes to trade agreements, sanctions, import and export regulations, including imposition of burdensome tariffs and quotas, and customs duties; • Changes in applicable tax regulations and interpretations; • Economic downturns and social and political instability; • Changes in laws and regulations or imposition of currency restrictions and other restraints in various jurisdictions; • Limitation of ownership rights, including expropriation of assets by a local government, and limitation on the ability to repatriate earnings; • Sovereign debt crises and currency instability in developed and developing countries; • Difficulty in staffing and managing global operations; • Difficulty in enforcing agreements, collecting receivables and protecting assets through non-U.S. legal systems; and • Political unrest, national and international conflict, including war, border closures, civil disturbances and terrorist acts. These risks could increase our cost of doing business in the U.S. and internationally, increase our counterparty risk, disrupt our operations, disrupt the ability of suppliers and customers to fulfill their obligations, increase our effective tax rate, increase the cost of our products, limit our ability to sell products in certain markets, reduce our operating margin, reduce cash flow and negatively impact our ability to compete. Our business relies on the institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets. Demand for our security products and solutions relies on the institutional, commercial and residential construction and remodeling markets, which are marked by cyclicality based on overall economic conditions, including consumer confidence and disposable income, corporate and government spending, work-from-home trends, availability of credit and demand for new housing and infrastructure. Weakness or instability in one or more of these markets may cause current and potential customers to delay or cancel major capital projects, or otherwise choose not to make purchases, which could negatively impact the demand for our products and solutions and erode average selling prices. 21 Currency exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our results. We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in currency exchange rates. See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk." Approximately 30% of our 2020 Net revenues were derived outside the U.S., and we expect sales to non-U.S. customers to continue to represent a significant portion of our consolidated Net revenues. Although we may enter into currency exchange contracts to reduce our risk related to currency exchange fluctuations, changes in the relative fair values of currencies occur from time to time and may, in some instances, have a material impact on our results of operations. We do not hedge against all of our currency exposure and therefore, our business will continue to be susceptible to currency fluctuations. We also translate assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies into U.S. dollars for our Consolidated Financial Statements based on applicable exchange rates. Consequently, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar compared to other currencies may have a material impact on the value of these items in our Consolidated Financial Statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. Commodity shortages, price increases and higher energy prices could negatively affect our financial results. We rely on suppliers to secure commodities, including steel, zinc, brass and other non-ferrous metals, required for the manufacture of our products. A disruption of deliveries from our suppliers or decreased availability of commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe that available sources of supply will generally be sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. Nonetheless, the unavailability of some commodities could have a material adverse impact on our business. Volatility in the prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products and services, and we may not be able to pass on these costs to our customers. We do not currently use financial derivatives to hedge against this volatility; however, we utilize firm purchase commitments to mitigate risk. The pricing of some commodities we use is based on market prices. To mitigate this exposure, we may use annual price contracts to minimize the impact of inflation and to benefit from deflation. Additionally, we are exposed to fluctuations in energy prices due to the instability of current market prices. Higher energy costs increase our operating costs and the cost of shipping our products and supplying services to our customers around the world. Consequently, sharp price increases, the imposition of taxes or an interruption of supply could cause us to lose the ability to effectively manage the risk of rising energy prices and may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets and other long-lived assets. At December 31, 2020, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled approximately $819.0 million and $118.3 million, respectively. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), we are required to annually assess our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. In addition, interim assessments must be performed for these and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred. Significant disruptions to our business or end market conditions, protracted economic weakness, unexpected significant declines in operating results of reporting units, divestitures or market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairment charges to our goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible or other long-lived assets. Specifically, an unanticipated deterioration in Net revenues and/or operating margins generated by our newly created Allegion International segment could trigger future impairments. Any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the periods when recognized. The capital and credit markets are important to our business. Instability in U.S. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility or reductions in the credit ratings assigned to us by independent ratings agencies, could reduce our access to capital markets or increase the cost of funding our short and long-term credit requirements. In particular, if we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us, we may not be able to make certain investments or fully execute our business plans and strategy. Our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. Limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers or financial counterparties to access credit could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent 22 customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. We have approximately $1.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2020. In addition, we have a senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Facility") that permits borrowings of up to an additional $500 million. Volatility in the credit markets could adversely impact our ability to obtain favorable financing terms in the future. A portion of our cash flows from operations is dedicated to servicing our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures, payment of dividends, share repurchases or future business opportunities. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends, sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In such event, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Additionally, at December 31, 2020, our borrowings included a variable rate term loan facility indexed to LIBOR (the "Term Facility", and together with the Revolving Facility, the "Credit Facilities") with an outstanding balance of $238.8 million, which exposes us to variable interest rate risk. We are also exposed to the risk of rising interest rates to the extent that we fund our operations with short-term or variable-rate borrowings under our Revolving Facility. If LIBOR or other applicable base rates under our Credit Facilities increase in the future, our Interest expense could increase. Additionally, the regulator that oversees LIBOR has announced that it cannot guarantee LIBOR's availability after 2021. In the event LIBOR is discontinued, replaced, significantly changed or ceases to be recognized as an acceptable benchmark, there may be uncertainty or differences in the calculation of our applicable interest rate or required payment amounts for our Credit Facilities. This could also require different hedging strategies and require renegotiation of our existing Credit Facilities. While we do not currently anticipate the transition from LIBOR and the risks thereto to have a material adverse effect on us, it remains uncertain at this time. Legal and Compliance Risks We are subject to risks related to corporate social responsibility and reputational matters. Our reputation and the reputation of our brands, including the perception held by our customers, end-users, business partners, investors, other key stakeholders and the communities in which we do business are influenced by various factors. There is an increased focus from our stakeholders on environmental, social and governance ("ESG") practices and disclosure – and if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, in any number of ESG matters, such as environmental stewardship, inclusion and diversity, workplace conduct and support for local communities, our reputation or the reputation of our brands may suffer. Such damage to our reputation and the reputation of our brands may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, negative or inaccurate postings or comments on social media or networking websites about the Company or our brands could generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or the reputation of our brands. If we are unable to effectively manage real or perceived issues, including concerns about product quality, safety, corporate social responsibility or other matters, sentiments toward the Company or our products could be negatively impacted, and our financial results could suffer. Our brands are important assets of our businesses, and violation of our trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. Our brands and trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to our success and competitive position. Unauthorized use of our trademarks may not only erode sales of our products but may also cause significant damage to our brand name and reputation, interfere with relationships with our customers and increase litigation costs. There can be no assurance that our on-going effort to protect our brand and trademark rights will prevent all violations. 23 Material adverse legal judgments, fines, penalties or settlements could adversely affect our business. We are currently and may in the future become involved in legal proceedings and disputes incidental to the operation of our business. Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of these proceedings and other contingencies (including, without limitation, environmental, product liability, antitrust, intellectual property, data protection, privacy and labor and employment matters) that cannot be predicted with certainty. As required by GAAP, we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings and other contingencies may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve, and we may be required to make additional material payments. Allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties could negatively affect us. We may be subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property rights by third parties. In particular, we often compete in areas having extensive intellectual property rights owned by others and we have become subject to claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights of others. In general, if it is determined that one or more of our technologies, products or services infringes the intellectual property rights owned by others, we may be required to cease marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost or to take other actions to avoid infringing such intellectual property rights. The litigation process is costly and subject to inherent uncertainties, and we may not prevail in litigation matters regardless of the merits of our position. Adverse intellectual property litigation or claims of infringement against us may become extremely disruptive if the plaintiffs succeed in blocking the trade of our products and services and may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations could be impaired by adverse publicity or improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We are subject to regulation under a variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies including laws related to anti-corruption, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering due to our global operations. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any improper conduct could damage our reputation and subject us to, among other things, civil and criminal penalties, material fines, equitable remedies (including profit disgorgement and injunctions on future conduct), securities litigation and a general loss of investor confidence. Our operations are subject to regulatory risks. Our U.S. and non-U.S. operations are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including fire and building codes and environmental, health and safety standards. We have incurred, and will be required to continue to incur, significant expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Changes to, or changes in interpretations of, current laws and regulations could require us to increase our compliance expenditures, cause us to significantly alter or discontinue offering existing products and services or cause us to develop new products and services. Altering current products and services or developing new products and services to comply with changes in the applicable laws and regulations could require significant research and development investments, increase the cost of providing the products and services and adversely affect the demand for our products and services. In the event a regulatory authority concludes that we are not or have not at all times been in full compliance with these laws or regulations, we could be fined, criminally charged or otherwise sanctioned. Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners of real property or operators of manufacturing facilities for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous substances or materials at such properties or at properties at which parties have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal and remedial costs under certain U.S. federal and state laws and certain non-U.S. laws are retroactive, strict and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notification from U.S. and non-U.S. governmental agencies, including the EPA and similar state environmental agencies, that conditions at a number of current and formerly owned sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup and other possible remedial action. These agencies may require that we reimburse the government for its costs incurred at these sites or otherwise pay for the costs of investigation and cleanup of these sites, including by providing compensation for natural resource damage claims from such sites. For more information, see "Item 1. Business - Regulatory Matters." While we have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws and have accrued for costs related to current remedial efforts, our costs of compliance, or our liabilities arising from past or future 24 releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, may exceed our estimates. We may also be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cost recovery actions for remediation of facilities in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. As a global business, we have a relatively complex tax structure, and there is a risk that tax authorities will disagree with our tax positions. Since we conduct operations worldwide through our subsidiaries, we are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations in the countries in which we operate. Transfer pricing regulations generally require that, for tax purposes, transactions between us and our affiliates be priced on a basis that would be comparable to an arm's length transaction and that contemporaneous documentation be maintained to support the tax allocation. Although uniform transfer pricing standards are emerging in many of the countries in which we operate, there is still a relatively high degree of uncertainty and inherent subjectivity in complying with these rules. To the extent that any tax authority disagrees with our transfer pricing policies, we could become subject to significant tax liabilities and penalties. Our tax returns are subject to review by taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Although we believe that we have provided for all tax exposures, the ultimate outcome of a tax review could differ materially from our provisions. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Our future effective tax rate and cash tax obligations could be adversely affected by shifts in our mix of earnings in countries with varying statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities or changes in tax laws, regulations, interpretations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions on various tax-related assertions. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Furthermore, due to shifting economic and political conditions, tax policies, laws, interpretations and rates in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, which could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations, have recently proposed, recommended or implemented changes to existing tax laws or have enacted new laws that could significantly increase our effective tax rate or cash tax obligations in countries where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. Risks Related to Our Incorporation in Ireland Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. The U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. As such, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on U.S. federal or state civil liability laws, including the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws, or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Companies Act 2014 of Ireland, as amended, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S. In addition, Irish law allows shareholders to authorize share capital which then can be issued by a board of directors without shareholder approval. Also, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash. At our annual meeting of shareholders, our shareholders authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 33% of our issued ordinary shares and further authorized our Board of Directors to issue up to 5% of such shares for cash without first offering them to our existing shareholders. Both of these authorizations will expire after a certain period unless renewed by our shareholders, and we cannot guarantee that the renewal of these authorizations will always 25 be approved. If the Directors' authority to issue ordinary shares is not renewed, then we may be limited in our ability to use our shares, for example, as consideration for acquisitions. Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties, changes in our status under the tax laws of many jurisdictions or adverse determinations by taxing authorities could increase our tax burden or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results, as well as subject our shareholders to additional taxes. The realization of any tax benefit related to our incorporation and tax residence in Ireland could be impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the tax authorities of many jurisdictions. From time to time, proposals have been made and/or legislation introduced to change the tax laws of various jurisdictions or limit tax treaty benefits that if enacted could materially increase our tax burden and/or our effective tax rate. Moreover, other legislative proposals could have a material adverse impact on us by overriding certain tax treaties and limiting the treaty benefits on certain payments, which could increase our tax liability. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislation in any jurisdiction. While we monitor proposals that would materially impact our tax burden and/or our effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain proposals are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax law is challenged and determined to be incorrect. In particular, any changes and/or differing interpretations of applicable tax law that have the effect of disregarding our incorporation in Ireland, limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between jurisdictions, modifying or eliminating the deductibility of various currently deductible payments or increasing the tax burden of operating or being resident in a particular country, could subject us to increased taxation. Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax. In certain circumstances, we are required to deduct Irish dividend withholding tax of 25% from dividends paid to our shareholders. In the majority of cases, shareholders residing in the U.S. will not be subject to Irish withholding tax, and shareholders resident in a number of other countries will not be subject to Irish withholding tax provided that they complete certain Irish dividend withholding tax forms. However, some shareholders may be subject to withholding tax, which could discourage the investment in our stock and adversely impact the price of our shares. Dividends received by our shareholders may be subject to Irish income tax. Dividends paid in respect of our shares generally are not subject to Irish income tax where the beneficial owner of these dividends is exempt from Irish dividend withholding tax, unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Allegion. Our shareholders who receive their dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on the dividends unless the beneficial owner of the dividend has some connection with Ireland other than his or her shareholding in Allegion. Certain provisions in our Memorandum and Articles of Association, among other things, could prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association contains provisions to deter takeover practices, inadequate takeover bids and unsolicited offers. These provisions include, amongst others: • A provision of our Articles of Association which generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder (being (i) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of our voting shares or (ii) an affiliate or associate of us that has at any time within the last five years been the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of our voting shares), subject to certain exceptions; • Rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • The right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred shares without shareholder approval in certain circumstances, subject to applicable law; and • The ability of our Board of Directors to set the number of directors and to fill vacancies on our Board of Directors. We believe these provisions will provide some protection to our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors 26 determines is in our best interests and our shareholders' best interests. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, several mandatory provisions of Irish law could prevent or delay an acquisition of us. For example, Irish law does not permit shareholders of an Irish public limited company to take action by written consent with less than unanimous consent. We also will be subject to various provisions of Irish law relating to mandatory bids, voluntary bids, requirements to make a cash offer and minimum price requirements, as well as substantial acquisition rules and rules requiring the disclosure of interests in our shares in certain circumstances. Also, Irish companies, including us, may alter their Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association only with the approval of at least 75% of the votes of the company’s shareholders cast in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the company.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following section is qualified in its entirety by the more detailed information, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto, which appears elsewhere in this Annual Report. Overview Organization We are a leading global provider of security products and solutions operating in three geographic regions: Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. We sell a wide range of security products and solutions for end-users in commercial, institutional and residential markets worldwide, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. Our leading brands include CISA, Interflex, LCN, Schlage, SimonsVoss and Von Duprin. Recent Developments COVID-19 Pandemic In March 2020, a global pandemic was declared by the WHO related to COVID-19. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected the global economy, disrupted supply chains and created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets. The outbreak and spread of COVID-19 also resulted in a substantial curtailment of business activities worldwide, including the major geographic markets we serve. As part of the efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, federal, state and local governments have imposed various restrictions on the conduct of business and travel, such as stay-at-home orders, travel restrictions and quarantines. These measures, as well as changes in employee health and safety concerns and consumer spending patterns, trends and preferences, have led to widespread business closures and lower demand for our products, with the most pronounced negative impacts of these measures on our results of operations occurring during the second quarter of 2020. Further, changes in commercial real estate occupancy, constraints on government and institutional budgets and the uncertain business climate have led to declines and delays in new construction activity and discretionary projects, including in many of the commercial and institutional construction markets we serve. As the pandemic and resulting economic challenges have adversely impacted, and will likely continue to adversely impact us, we continue to closely monitor their effects on all aspects of our business and the markets in which we operate. Throughout the pandemic, our primary focus has been, and continues to be, the health and safety of employees, our business continuity plan, meeting the evolving needs of our customers and the well-being of the many communities around the world in which we operate. During the early months of the pandemic, we experienced temporary production shut-downs due either to government mandate or to help ensure employee safety, most notably in Italy and the Baja region of Mexico. However, the vast majority of our manufacturing facilities have remained open and operational throughout 2020, in part due to the numerous health and safety measures we adopted to promote the health and safety of our workforce and because many of our global operations have been deemed essential businesses. All of our global production and assembly facilities were operational as of December 31, 2020, and while we currently expect they will remain operational for the foreseeable future, such expectation is dependent upon future governmental actions, demand for our products, the stability of our global supply chain and our ability to continue to operate in a safe manner. We remain focused on business continuity and ensuring our facilities remain operational where safe and appropriate to do so. We will also continue to serve our customers when needed through our channel partners or inventory on hand. To the extent any additional temporary closures or adjustments to production are necessary, such measures will be implemented in a way that allows us to resume operations in an efficient and safe manner, while also minimizing disruption to customers and our overall business, including prudent measures to mitigate, to the extent possible, any financial impacts, although any additional local orders or decrees resulting in new temporary shut-downs will drive further unfavorable impacts to our operations, ability to serve our customers and potentially, our financial position and liquidity. The pandemic will likely continue to impact us in numerous and evolving ways that we may not be able to accurately predict; however, we will continue to closely monitor its impact on our business, employees, customers, suppliers, distribution channels and other business partners, and we believe that our actions taken to date, our financial flexibility and potential measures within our control will allow us to maintain a sound financial position and provide for adequate resources to fund our ongoing operating and financing needs. 32 Additionally, as a response to the COVID-19 pandemic, on March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act") was enacted and signed into law, which included measures to assist companies in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. One measure allowed companies to defer the remittance of the employer portion of the social security tax through December 31, 2020, with half the amount deferred required to be paid by December 31, 2021, and the other half by December 31, 2022. Through December 31, 2020, we have elected to defer approximately $13 million under this provision, which is classified in Accrued expenses and other current liabilities and Other noncurrent liabilities within our Consolidated Balance Sheet. A second measure of the CARES Act raised the limit on business interest deductions from 30% to 50% of adjusted taxable income for tax years 2019 and 2020. This increased interest limitation resulted in approximately $20 million of reduced cash tax payments in 2020. Each of these two measures has resulted in a benefit to our cash flows from operations for the year ended December 31, 2020; however, neither measure is expected to materially impact our effective tax rate, and no income tax effects have been recorded during the year ended December 31, 2020. The challenges and uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic and its potential impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as well as a number of other challenges and uncertainties that could affect our businesses are described further under Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors." 2020 and 2019 Significant Events Acquisitions In December 2020, we acquired Yonomi, Inc. ("Yonomi), a U.S. based smart home integration platform provider and innovation leader in IoT Cloud platforms. Yonomi has been integrated into our Americas segment. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets As a result of the global economic disruption and uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we performed interim impairment tests on the goodwill balances of our EMEA and Asia Pacific reporting units, as well as on certain indefinite-lived trade name assets in these two regions, during the first quarter of 2020. As discussed in Notes 5 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the results of these interim impairment tests indicated that the estimated fair value of our Asia Pacific reporting unit and three indefinite-lived trade names were impaired. Consequently, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges totaling $96.3 million were recorded. Further impairment charges were recorded in our Asia Pacific segment during the year ended December 31, 2020, including $2.6 million related to supply chain disruptions that reduced a brand's expected future cash flows and $2.8 million related to declines in volumes and pricing pressure for a separate subsidiary in the region. Loss on Assets Held for Sale The assets and liabilities of our QMI business met the criteria to be classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2020. Accordingly, QMI's net assets, which primarily included working capital and long-lived assets, were written down to fair value, estimated based on expected sales proceeds, less cost to sell, resulting in a Loss on assets held for sale of $37.9 million. Turkey and Colombia Divestitures In 2019, we closed our production facility in Turkey to help streamline our footprint in EMEA and subsequently sold certain of the production assets, which represented a business, for total proceeds of approximately $4.1 million. We recorded a loss on divestiture of $24.2 million ($25.5 million, net of tax), primarily driven by the reclassification of $25.0 million of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments to earnings upon sale. We also sold our interests in our Colombia operations in 2019 for a nominal amount, recording a net loss on divestiture of $5.9 million, of which $1.2 million related to the reclassification of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments to earnings upon sale. 2020 Dividends and Share Repurchases We paid quarterly dividends of $0.32 per ordinary share to shareholders on record as of March 17, 2020, June 16, 2020, September 16, 2020, and December 16, 2020. We paid a total of $117.3 million in cash for dividends to ordinary shareholders and repurchased approximately 1.9 million shares for approximately $208.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. 33 Other Financing Activities In 2019, we issued $400.0 million of 3.500% Senior Notes due 2029 (the "3.500% Senior Notes"). Net proceeds from the issuance of the 3.500% Senior Notes, along with cash on hand, were utilized to make a $400.0 million principal payment to partially pay down the Company's outstanding term loan facility (the "Term Facility") balance. As a result of this payment, we have satisfied our obligation to make quarterly installments on the Term Facility up to its maturity date, with the remaining outstanding balance of $238.8 million due on September 12, 2022. Subsequent Event Effective January 1, 2021, we have combined our EMEA and Asia Pacific operations into a new segment named Allegion International, in addition to renaming our Americas segment "Allegion Americas". The new Allegion International segment has been created to drive speed and efficiency, simplify our operating segments and optimize our non-U.S. operations. 34 Results of Operations - For the years ended December 31 The discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in our results of operations for the years presented and form the basis used by management to evaluate the financial performance of the business. For a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, see “Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 18, 2020. Net Revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by 4.7%, or $134.1 million, compared to the same period in 2019, due to the following: The decrease in Net revenues was principally driven by lower volumes across all regions, primarily due to the economic challenges stemming from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, particularly during the second quarter of 2020. The decrease was, to a lesser degree, due to the impact of the divestitures of our Colombia and Turkey businesses in 2019, as discussed above. These decreases were slightly offset by improved pricing and the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements. Pricing includes increases or decreases of price, including discounts, surcharges and/or other sales deductions, on our existing products and services. Volume includes increases or decreases of revenue due to changes in unit volume of existing products and services, as well as new products and services. Cost of Goods Sold For the year ended December 31, 2020, Cost of goods sold as a percentage of Net revenues increased to 56.7% from 56.1%, due to the following: 35 Costs of goods sold as a percentage of Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased primarily due to the impact of reduced volumes and product mix and, to a lesser extent, inflation in excess of pricing and productivity. Inflation in excess of pricing and productivity was driven by productivity challenges stemming from the temporary closures during the second quarter discussed above; labor inefficiencies, such as increased absenteeism; and, increased costs related to ensuring a safe and healthy work environment in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. These increases were partially offset by certain non-U.S. government incentives, which were included within inflation in excess of pricing and productivity, as well as the impacts of the divestitures discussed above, foreign currency exchange rate movements and a year-over-year decrease in restructuring expenses. The year-over-year decrease in restructuring expenses impacting Costs of goods sold is due to the prior year restructuring costs related to the closure of our production facility in Turkey in 2019. Inflation in excess of pricing and productivity includes the impact to Cost of goods sold from pricing, as defined above, in addition to productivity and inflation. Productivity represents improvements in unit costs of materials and cost reductions related to improvements to our manufacturing design and processes. Inflation includes unit costs for the current period compared to the average actual cost for the prior period, multiplied by current year volumes. Volume/product mix represents the impact due to increases or decreases of revenue due to changes in unit volume, including new products and services, including the effect of changes in the mix of products and services sold on Cost of goods sold. Selling and Administrative Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2020, Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net revenues decreased to 23.4% from 23.9%, due to the following: Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased primarily due to productivity benefits in excess of inflation and foreign currency exchange rate movements. These decreases were partially offset by unfavorable leverage due to lower volumes, increased investment spending and a year-over-year increase in restructuring and acquisition expenses. Productivity in excess of inflation includes the impact from reductions in selling and administrative expenses due to productivity projects and current period costs of ongoing selling and administrative functions compared to the same ongoing expenses in the prior period. Productivity in excess of inflation also reflects the benefits of certain non-U.S. government incentives, reductions in variable compensation and reductions or delays of other business spending in the current year, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Volume leverage represents the contribution margin related to changes in sales volume, excluding the impact of price, productivity, mix and inflation. Expenses related to increased head count for strategic initiatives, new facilities or significant improvements for strategic initiatives and new product development, are captured in Investment spending in the table above. Operating Income/Margin Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased $161.6 million from the same period in 2019, and Operating margin decreased to 14.8% from 19.8%, due to the following: 36 The decreases in Operating income and Operating margin were largely driven by our current year goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and loss on assets held for sale related to our QMI business. As a result of the global economic disruption and uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we determined a triggering event had occurred as of March 31, 2020, and performed interim impairment testing on the goodwill balances of our EMEA and Asia Pacific reporting units, as well as on certain indefinite-lived trade name assets in these two regions, which resulted in impairment charges totaling $96.3 million. Additional intangible asset impairments of $2.6 million and $2.8 million were recorded in our Asia Pacific segment in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, respectively. Further, as we concluded that the net assets of our QMI business met the criteria to be classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2020, they were written down to fair value, estimated based on expected sales proceeds, less cost to sell, which resulted in a loss of $37.9 million. The decreases in Operating income and Operating margin were also attributable to unfavorable volume/product mix, a year-over-year increase in restructuring and acquisition expenses and increased investment spending. These decreases were partially offset by pricing improvements and productivity in excess of inflation, foreign currency exchange rate movements and the impact of the divestitures discussed above. Interest Expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased $4.9 million compared to 2019, which is due to a lower weighted-average interest rate during the current year on our outstanding indebtedness and a $2.7 million prior year charge for the write-off of previously deferred financing costs related to the Term Facility, which did not recur in the current period. Loss on Divestitures In 2019, we closed our production facility in Turkey and subsequently sold certain of the production assets thereof, which represented a business, for total proceeds of approximately $4.1 million. We recorded a loss on divestiture of $24.2 million ($25.5 million, net of tax), primarily driven by the reclassification of $25.0 million of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments to earnings upon sale. We also sold our interests in our Colombia operations in 2019 for a nominal amount, recording a net loss on divestiture of $5.9 million, of which $1.2 million related to the reclassification of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments to earnings upon sale. Other (Income) Expense, net The components of Other (income) expense, net, for the years ended December 31 were as follows: 37 For the year ended December 31, 2020, Other (income) expense, net was favorable $16.8 million compared to 2019, primarily due to gains of $12.8 million related to the reclassification to earnings of accumulated foreign currency translation adjustments upon the liquidation of two legal entities in our EMEA region, which are included within Other in the table above, as well as favorable net periodic pension and postretirement benefit (income) cost, less service cost in 2020 compared to 2019. Provision for Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2020, our effective tax rate was 13.9%, compared to 15.4% for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the favorable mix of income earned in lower tax rate jurisdictions, partially offset by the unfavorable tax impact related to goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and the unfavorable year-over-year change in the amounts recognized for valuation allowances. Review of Business Segments We operate in and report financial results for three segments: Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, results for the Company's India operations have been included within the Asia Pacific segment results, due to an operational change. This change did not result in a material impact to Segment results of operations for either the EMEA or Asia Pacific segment. These segments represent the level at which our chief operating decision maker reviews company financial performance and makes operating decisions. Segment operating income (loss) is the measure of profit and loss that our chief operating decision maker uses to evaluate the financial performance of the business and as the basis for resource allocation, performance reviews and compensation. For these reasons, we believe that Segment operating income (loss) represents the most relevant measure of Segment profit and loss. Our chief operating decision maker may exclude certain charges or gains, such as corporate charges and other special charges, to arrive at a Segment operating income (loss) that is a more meaningful measure of profit and loss upon which to base our operating decisions. We define Segment operating margin as Segment operating income (loss) as a percentage of the segment's Net revenues. The segment discussions that follow describe the significant factors contributing to the changes in results for each segment included in Net earnings. Segment Results of Operations - For the years ended December 31 "N/M" = not meaningful 38 Americas Our Americas segment is a leading provider of security products and solutions in approximately 30 countries throughout North America, Central America, the Caribbean and South America. The segment sells a broad range of products and solutions including, locks, locksets, portable locks, key systems, door closers, exit devices, doors and door systems, electronic products and access control systems to end-users in commercial, institutional and residential facilities, including the education, healthcare, government, hospitality, commercial office and single and multi-family residential markets. This segment’s primary brands are LCN, Schlage, Steelcraft, Technical Glass Products ("TGP") and Von Duprin. Net revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by 4.6%, or $97.8 million, compared to the same period in 2019, due to the following: The decrease in Net revenues was principally driven by lower volumes due to the economic challenges stemming from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the impact of the divestiture of our Colombia business in 2019. These decreases were partially offset by improved pricing. Net revenues from residential products for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased mid-single digits compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily driven by higher volumes. Net revenues from non-residential products for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased high single digits compared to the prior year, primarily driven by lower volumes. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been changes in commercial real estate occupancy, constraints on government and institutional budgets and an overall uncertain business climate, which have led to declines and delays in new construction activity and discretionary projects in the non-residential construction markets we serve. These challenges are expected to continue in 2021, but the long-term impacts of the pandemic and related market disruption are not yet known. Additionally, as end-users have continued to adopt newer technologies in their facilities and homes, accelerated by the increasing adoption of the Internet of Things ("IoT"), growth in electronic security products and solutions has become an increased metric monitored by management and of focus to our investors. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Net revenues from the sale of electronic products in the Americas segment decreased mid-single digits compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily driven by lower volumes due to delays in discretionary projects. Electronic products include all electrified product categories including, but not limited to, electronic locks, access controls and electrified exit devices. Operating income/margin Segment operating income for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased $31.4 million, and Segment operating margin decreased to 28.8 % from 28.9 % compared to the same period in 2019, due to the following: The decreases in Segment operating income and Segment operating margin were primarily due to unfavorable volume/product mix, as well as increased investment spending and year-over-year increases in restructuring and acquisition expenses. These decreases were partially offset by pricing improvements and productivity in excess of inflation, foreign currency exchange rate movements and the impact of the divestiture of our Colombia business in 2019. As a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, certain of our facilities in the Americas experienced productivity challenges due to temporary closures and lower volume and demand, particularly during the second quarter; however, these productivity decreases were more than offset by reductions in variable compensation and reductions or delays of other business spending. 39 EMEA Our EMEA segment provides security products, services and solutions in approximately 80 countries throughout Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The segment offers end-users a broad range of products, services and solutions including, locks, locksets, portable locks, key systems, door closers, exit devices, doors and door systems, electronic products and access control systems, as well as time and attendance and workforce productivity solutions. This segment’s primary brands are AXA, Bricard, Briton, CISA, Interflex and SimonsVoss. This segment also resells LCN, Schlage and Von Duprin products, primarily in the Middle East. Net revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by 3.1%, or $17.9 million, compared to the same period in 2019, due to the following: The decrease in Net revenues was principally driven by lower volumes due to the economic challenges stemming from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, particularly during the second quarter, as well as the divestiture of our Turkey business in 2019. These decreases were partially offset by improved pricing and favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. Operating income (loss)/margin Segment operating income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2020, was unfavorable $39.7 million, and Segment operating margin decreased to ( 1.0 )% from 6.0 % compared to the same period in 2019, due to the following: Segment operating income (loss) was unfavorable primarily due to the loss on assets held for sale related to our QMI business, unfavorable volume/product mix and, to a lesser extent, increased investment spending and the impact of the divestiture of our Turkey business in 2019. These decreases were partially offset by pricing improvements and productivity in excess of inflation, foreign currency exchange rate movements, year-over-year decreases in restructuring and acquisition expenses and intangible asset impairment charges. Certain of our facilities in EMEA did experience productivity challenges as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic due to temporary closures and lower volume and demand, particularly during the second quarter in Italy; however, this was more than offset by the benefits of certain government incentives and reductions in variable compensation and other business spending. Pricing and productivity in excess of inflation also includes the impact of a $5.1 million environmental remediation charge incurred during the fourth quarter of 2020. Segment operating margin decreased primarily due to the loss on assets held for sale, unfavorable volume/product mix and increased investment spending. These decreases were partially offset by pricing improvements and productivity in excess of inflation, foreign currency exchange rate movements and year-over-year decreases in restructuring and acquisition expenses. 40 Asia Pacific Our Asia Pacific segment provides security products, services and solutions in approximately 15 countries throughout the Asia Pacific region. The segment offers end-users a broad range of products, services and solutions including, locks, locksets, portable locks, key systems, door closers, exit devices, electronic products and access control systems. This segment’s primary brands are Brio, Briton, FSH, Gainsborough, Legge, Milre and Schlage. Net revenues Net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased by 11.0%, or $18.4 million, compared to the same period in 2019, due to the following: The decrease in Net revenues was principally driven by lower volumes in our Korea business, declines attributable to the economic challenges stemming from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and weakness in end markets throughout the region. Unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements and lower pricing also contributed to the decrease in Net revenues during the current year. Operating income (loss)/margin Segment operating income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2020, was unfavorable $97.2 million, and Segment operating margin decreased to ( 65.1 )% from 0.3 % compared to the same period in 2019, due to the following: The decreases to Segment operating income (loss) and Segment operating margin were both primarily due to an $88.1 million goodwill impairment charge in the first quarter of 2020 and increased year-over-year intangible asset impairment charges, as well as unfavorable volume/product mix, year-over-year increases in restructuring and acquisition expenses and foreign currency exchange rate movements. These decreases were partially offset by productivity improvements in excess of lower pricing and inflation and decreased investment spending. Pricing and productivity in excess of inflation includes the impact of a $4.0 million gain on the sale of a building within the region during the fourth quarter of 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources and uses of liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash provided by operating activities. Cash provided by operating activities is used to invest in new product development and fund capital expenditures and working capital requirements and is expected to be adequate to service any future debt, pay any declared dividends and potentially fund acquisitions and share repurchases. Our ability to fund these capital needs depends on our ongoing ability to generate cash from our operating activities and to access our borrowing facilities (including unused availability under our Revolving Facility) and capital markets. Throughout 2020, we have closely monitored the developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the resulting uncertainties around customer demand, supply chain disruption, the availability and cost of materials, customer and supplier financial condition, levels of liquidity and our ongoing compliance with debt covenants. While our business and results of 41 operations have been negatively impacted by the pandemic and the resulting global economic slowdown, we have no required principal payments on our long-term debt until September 2022, maintain cash and cash equivalents of $480.4 million and have unused availability of $485.0 million under our Revolving Facility as of December 31, 2020. Further, our business operates with low capital intensity, providing financial flexibility during this time of continued uncertainty. We believe that our actions taken to date, future cash provided by operating activities, availability under our Revolving Facility, access to funds on hand and capital markets, as well as other potential measures within our control to maintain a sound financial position and liquidity, will provide adequate resources to fund our operating and financing needs. The following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended December 31. For additional details, please see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased $2.1 million compared to 2019. As discussed above, Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, included benefits totaling approximately $30 million due to measures included in the CARES Act. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased $20.9 million compared to 2019, primarily due to a decrease in capital expenditures. Financing activities Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020, decreased $20.3 million compared to 2019. The year over-year reductions in debt repayments and cash used to repurchase shares of $17.7 million and $17.2 million, respectively, were partially offset by a year-over-year increase in dividend payments to ordinary shareholders of $16.7 million. Capitalization At December 31, long-term debt and other borrowings consisted of the following: As of December 31, 2020, we have an unsecured Credit Agreement in place, consisting of a $700.0 million term loan facility (the “Term Facility”), of which $238.8 million is outstanding, and a $500.0 million revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Facility” and, together with the Term Facility, the “Credit Facilities”). The Credit Facilities mature on September 12, 2022. At inception, the Term Facility was scheduled to amortize in quarterly installments at the following rates: 1.25% per quarter starting December 31, 2017 through December 31, 2020, 2.5% per quarter from March 31, 2021 through June 30, 2022, with the balance due on September 12, 2022. Principal amounts repaid on the Term Facility may not be reborrowed. During the third 42 quarter of 2019, we made a $400.0 million principal payment to partially pay down the outstanding Term Facility balance. As a result of this payment, we have satisfied our obligation to make quarterly installments on the Term Facility up to the maturity date, with the remaining outstanding balance due on September 12, 2022. The Revolving Facility provides aggregate commitments of up to $500.0 million, which includes up to $100.0 million for the issuance of letters of credit. At December 31, 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding on the Revolving Facility, and we had $15.0 million of letters of credit outstanding. Commitments under the Revolving Facility may be reduced at any time without premium or penalty, and amounts repaid may be reborrowed. Outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facilities accrue interest at our option of (i) a LIBOR rate plus the applicable margin or (ii) a base rate plus the applicable margin. The applicable margin ranges from 1.125% to 1.500% depending on our credit ratings. At December 31, 2020, outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facilities accrue interest at LIBOR plus a margin of 1.250%, resulting in an interest rate of 1.51%. As of December 31, 2020, we also have $400.0 million outstanding of 3.200% Senior Notes due 2024 (the "3.200% Senior Notes"), $400.0 million outstanding of 3.550% Senior Notes due 2027 (the "3.550% Senior Notes") and $400.0 million outstanding of 3.500% Senior Notes due 2029 (the "3.500% Senior Notes", and all three senior notes collectively, the "Senior Notes"). The Senior Notes require semi-annual interest payments on April 1 and October 1 of each year, and will mature on October 1, 2024, October 1, 2027, and October 1, 2029, respectively. Historically, the majority of our earnings were considered to be permanently reinvested in jurisdictions where we have made, and intend to continue to make, substantial investments to support the ongoing development and growth of our global operations. At December 31, 2020, we have analyzed our working capital requirements and the potential tax liabilities that would be incurred if certain subsidiaries made distributions and concluded that no material changes to our historic permanent reinvestment assertions are required. Defined Benefit Plans Our investment objective in managing defined benefit plan assets is to ensure that all present and future benefit obligations are met as they come due. We seek to achieve this goal while trying to mitigate volatility in plan funded status, contributions and expense by better matching the characteristics of the plan assets to that of the plan liabilities. Global asset allocation decisions are based on a dynamic approach whereby a plan's allocation to fixed income assets increases as the funded status increases. We monitor plan funded status, asset allocation and the impact of market conditions on our defined benefit plans regularly in addition to investment manager performance. None of our defined benefit pension plans have experienced a significant impact on their liquidity due to volatility in the markets. For further details on pension plan activity, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations by required payment periods: Future interest payments on variable rate long-term debt are estimated based on the rate in effect as of December 31, 2020. As the timing and amounts of our future expected obligations under our defined benefit plans, income taxes, environmental and product liability matters are uncertain, they have not been included in the contractual cash obligations table above, but rather, are discussed below: Defined Benefit Pension and Postretirement ("OPEB") Plans At December 31, 2020, we had net pension liabilities of $20.2 million, which consist of plan assets of $796.9 million and benefit obligations of $817.1 million. It is our objective to contribute to our pension plans in order to ensure adequate funds are available in the plans to make benefit payments to plan participants and beneficiaries when required. At December 31, 2020, the funded status of our qualified pension plan for U.S. employees increased to 98.7% from 93.5% at December 31, 2019. The 43 funded status for our non-U.S. pension plans increased to 101.8% at December 31, 2020 from 101.1% at December 31, 2019. The funded status for all of our pension plans at December 31, 2020 increased to 97.5% from 95.3% at December 31, 2019. We currently project that approximately $11.4 million will be contributed to our plans worldwide in 2021. At December 31, 2020, we also had OPEB obligations of $5.2 million. We fund OPEB costs principally on a pay-as-you-go basis as medical costs are incurred by covered retiree populations. Benefit payments, which are net of expected plan participant contributions and Medicare Part D subsidies, are not expected to be material in 2021. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our pension and OPEB obligations. Income Taxes At December 31, 2020, we have total unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions of $41.2 million and $7.6 million of related accrued interest and penalties, net of tax. These liabilities have been excluded from the preceding table as we are unable to reasonably estimate the amount and period in which these liabilities might be paid. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding matters relating to income taxes, including unrecognized tax benefits and tax authority disputes. Contingent Liabilities We are involved in various litigation, claims and administrative proceedings, including those related to environmental, asbestos-related and product liability matters. We believe that these liabilities are subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for contingent liabilities and will likely be resolved over an extended period of time. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Guarantor Financial Information In March 2020, the SEC adopted amendments to the financial disclosure requirements applicable to registered debt offerings that include credit enhancements, such as subsidiary guarantees, in Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X. The amended rules focus on providing material, relevant and decision-useful information regarding guarantees and other credit enhancements, while eliminating certain prescriptive requirements. We adopted these amendments on March 31, 2020. Accordingly, summarized financial information has been presented only for the issuers and guarantors of our registered securities for the most recent fiscal year, and the location of the required disclosures has been moved outside the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and is provided below. Allegion US Holding Company Inc. ("Allegion US Hold Co") is the issuer of the 3.200% Senior Notes and 3.550% Senior Notes and is the guarantor of the 3.500% Senior Notes. Allegion plc (the “Parent”) is the issuer of the 3.500% Senior Notes and is the guarantor of the 3.200% Senior Notes and 3.550% Senior Notes. Allegion US Hold Co is 100% owned by the Parent and each of the guarantees of Allegion US Hold Co and the Parent is full and unconditional and joint and several. The 3.200% Senior Notes and the 3.550% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations of Allegion US Hold Co and rank equally with all of Allegion US Hold Co’s existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The guarantee of the 3.200% Senior Notes and the 3.550% Senior Notes is the senior unsecured obligation of the Parent and ranks equally with all of Allegion plc’s existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The 3.500% Senior Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Parent, are guaranteed by Allegion US Hold Co and rank equally with all of Allegion plc’s existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. Each guarantee is effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness of the Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness. The Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to indebtedness and other liabilities of the subsidiaries of the Guarantor, none of which guarantee the notes. The obligations of the Guarantor under its Guarantee are limited as necessary to prevent such Guarantee from constituting a fraudulent conveyance under applicable law and, therefore, are limited to the amount that the Guarantor could guarantee without such Guarantee constituting a fraudulent conveyance; this limitation, however, may not be effective to prevent such Guarantee from constituting a fraudulent conveyance. If the Guarantee was rendered voidable, it could be subordinated by a court to all other indebtedness (including guarantees and other contingent liabilities) of the Guarantor, and, depending on the amount of such indebtedness, the Guarantor’s liability on its Guarantee could be reduced to zero. In such an event, the notes would be structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other liabilities of the Guarantor. For further details, terms and conditions of the Senior Notes refer to the Company’s Form 8-K filed October 2, 2017 and Form 8-K filed September 27, 2019. 44 The following tables present the summarized financial information specified in Rule 1-02(bb)(1) of Regulation S-X for each issuer and guarantor. The summarized financial information has been prepared in accordance with Rule 13-01 of Regulation S-X. Selected Condensed Statement of Comprehensive Income Information (a) Transactions with related parties and subsidiaries include intercompany interest and fees. Selected Condensed Balance Sheet Information Critical Accounting Policies Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with those accounting principles requires management to use judgment in making estimates and assumptions based on the relevant information available at the end of each period. These estimates and assumptions have a significant effect on reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities because they result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions on matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from estimates. If updated information or actual amounts are different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in our results for the period in which they become known. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates and assumptions made by management that we consider critical: • Goodwill – Goodwill is tested annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not less than its carrying amount. Recoverability of goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level and starts with a comparison of the carrying amount of a reporting unit to its estimated fair value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. To the extent that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a goodwill impairment charge will be recognized for the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill. 45 As quoted market prices are not available for our reporting units, the calculation of their estimated fair values is based on two valuation techniques, a discounted cash flow model (income approach) and a market multiple of earnings (market approach), with each method being weighted in the calculation. The income approach relies on the Company’s estimates of revenue growth rates, terminal growth rates, margin assumptions and discount rates to estimate future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. The market approach requires determining an appropriate peer group, which is utilized to derive estimated fair values of our reporting units based on selected market multiples. The market approach reflects the market’s expectations for future growth and risk, with adjustments to account for differences between the selected peer group companies and the subject reporting units. As a result of the global economic disruption and uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we concluded a triggering event had occurred as of March 31, 2020, and accordingly, performed interim impairment testing on the goodwill balances of our EMEA and Asia Pacific reporting units. Given the high degree of market volatility and lack of reliable market data that existed as of March 31, 2020, we determined a discounted cash flow model (income approach) provided the best approximation of fair value of the EMEA and Asia Pacific reporting units for the purpose of performing these interim tests. This was a change in estimate, as historically our determination of reporting unit fair values has been estimated based on both an income and a market approach, as discussed above, with each method being weighted in the calculation. The results of the interim impairment testing indicated the estimated fair value of the Asia Pacific reporting unit was less than its carrying value, and consequently, a goodwill impairment charge of $88.1 million was recorded. As markets stabilized throughout the year, we reverted to utilizing both an income and market approach while performing our annual impairment test in the fourth quarter. The estimated fair values for each of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values by more than 20% for the annual 2020 goodwill impairment test, completed in the fourth quarter. Assessing the fair value of our reporting units includes, among other things, making key assumptions for estimating future cash flows and appropriate market multiples. These assumptions are subject to a high degree of judgment and complexity. We make every effort to estimate future cash flows as accurately as possible with the information available at the time the forecast is developed. However, changes in assumptions and estimates may affect the estimated fair value of the reporting unit and could result in impairment charges in future periods. Factors that have the potential to create variances in the estimated fair value of the reporting unit include, but are not limited to, the following: • Decreases in estimated market sizes or market growth rates due to greater-than-expected declines in volumes, pricing pressures or disruptive technology; • Declines in our market share and penetration assumptions due to increased competition or an inability to develop or launch new products; • The impacts of market volatility, including greater-than-expected declines in pricing, reductions in volumes or fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • The level of success of on-going and future research and development efforts, including those related to acquisitions, and increases in the research and development costs necessary to obtain regulatory approvals and launch new products; • Increases in the price or decreases in the availability of key commodities and the impact of higher energy prices; and • Increases in our market-participant risk-adjusted weighted-average cost of capital. • Indefinite-lived intangible assets – Similar to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually during the fourth quarter for impairment or when there is a significant change in events or circumstances that indicate the fair value of the asset is more likely than not less than its carrying amount. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is determined on a relief from royalty methodology, which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. The present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e. royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. Any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value is recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. During the first quarter of 2020, we concluded the global economic disruption and uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic to be a triggering event. Accordingly, interim impairment tests on certain indefinite-lived trade names were performed as of March 31, 2020. Based on these tests, it was determined that three of our indefinite-lived trade names in the EMEA and Asia Pacific segments were impaired, and impairment charges totaling $8.2 million were recorded. A significant increase in the discount rate, decrease in the terminal growth rate, decrease in the royalty rate or substantial reductions in future revenue projections could have a negative impact on the estimated fair values of any of our indefinite-lived intangible assets. 46 • Income taxes – We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We recognize future tax benefits, such as net operating losses and non-U.S. tax credits, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered in our judgment to be more likely than not. We regularly review the recoverability of our deferred tax assets considering our historic profitability, projected future taxable income, timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and the feasibility of our tax planning strategies. Where appropriate, we record a valuation allowance with respect to future tax benefits. The provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding our filing positions, timing and amount of income or deductions and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable resolution of these matters. We will adjust our estimates if significant events so dictate. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, the effect will be recorded in the provision for income taxes in the period that the matter is finally resolved. • Defined benefit plans – We provide several U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plan benefits to eligible employees and retirees. Our noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering non-collectively bargained U.S. employees provide benefits on an average pay formula while most plans for collectively bargained U.S. employees provide benefits on a flat dollar benefit formula. The non-U.S. pension plans generally provide benefits based on earnings and years of service. Determining the costs associated with such plans is dependent on various actuarial assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets, employee mortality and turnover rates. Actuarial valuations are performed to determine expense in accordance with GAAP. Actual results may differ from the actuarial assumptions and are generally recorded to Accumulated other comprehensive loss and amortized into earnings over future periods. We review our actuarial assumptions at each measurement date and make modifications to the assumptions as appropriate. The discount rate and expected return on plan assets are determined as of each measurement date. Discount rates for all plans are established using hypothetical yield curves based on the yields of corporate bonds rated AA quality. Spot rates are developed from the yield curve and used to discount future benefit payments. The expected return on plan assets reflects the average rate of returns expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. The expected return on plan assets is based on what is achievable given the plan’s investment policy, the types of assets held and the target asset allocation. We believe the assumptions utilized in recording our defined benefit obligations are reasonable based on input from our actuaries, outside investment advisors and information as to assumptions used by plan sponsors. Changes in any of the assumptions can have an impact on the net periodic pension benefit cost. An estimated 0.25% rate decline in the discount rate would increase net periodic pension benefit cost by approximately $1.1 million in 2021, while a 0.25% rate decline in the estimated return on assets would increase net periodic pension benefit cost by approximately $1.9 million. • Business combinations – The fair value of consideration paid in a business combination is allocated to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and goodwill. Acquired intangible assets primarily include indefinite-lived trade names, customer relationships and completed technologies. The accounting for business combinations involves a considerable amount of judgment and estimation, including the fair value of acquired intangible assets involving projections of future revenues and cash flows that are either discounted at an estimated discount rate or measured at an estimated royalty rate; fair value of other acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including potential contingencies; and the useful lives of the acquired assets. The assumptions used to determine the fair value of acquired intangible assets include projections developed using internal forecasts, available industry and market data, estimates of long-term growth rates, profitability, customer attrition and royalty rates, which are determined at the time of acquisition. An income approach or market approach (or both) is utilized in accordance with accepted valuation models for each acquired intangible asset to determine fair value. The impact of prior or future business combinations on our financial condition or results of operations may be materially impacted by the change in or initial selection of assumptions and estimates. 47 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 herein for a discussion of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements.