********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in other filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or, that we presently believe are not material, could also affect our business operations and financial results. Strategic Risks Changes in Consumer Demand — We are exposed to changes in consumer demand patterns and customer requirements in numerous industries. Sales of our products and services depend heavily on the volume of sales made by our customers to consumers. Alternative consumer preferences for products in the industries that we serve or the packaging formats in which such products are delivered, whether as a result of changes in cost, convenience or health, environmental and social concerns and perceptions, may result in a decline in the demand for certain of our products or the obsolescence of some of our existing products. Any new products that we produce may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our or our customers' inability to accurately predict customer demand, end user preferences or movements in industry standards, or to develop products that meet consumer demand in a timely and cost-effective manner. Changing preferences for products and packaging formats may result in increased demand for other products we produce. However, to the extent changing preferences are not offset by demand for new or alternative products, changes to consumer preferences could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Key Customers and Customer Consolidation — The loss of key customers, a reduction in their production requirements or consolidation among key customers could have a significant adverse impact on our sales revenue and profitability. Relationships with our customers are fundamental to our success, particularly given the nature of the packaging industry and the other supply choices available to customers. While we do not have a single customer accounting for more than ten percent of our net sales, customer concentration can be more pronounced within certain businesses. Consequently, the loss of any of our key customers or any significant reduction in their production requirements, or an adverse change in the terms of our supply agreements with them, could reduce our sales revenue and net profit. There is no assurance that existing customer relationships will be renewed at existing volume or price levels, or at all. Customers with operations subject to physical risks, including due to climate change, may relocate production to areas that are less impacted and such areas may be out of range of Amcor's production sites or supplying such relocated facilities may lead to additional costs. Any loss, change, or other adverse event related to our key customer relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, which effect may be material. In addition, over recent years certain of our customers have acquired companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our business with these customers. Such consolidation may be accompanied by pressure from customers for lower prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of products purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring customer and the company acquired. While we have generally been successful at managing customer consolidations, increased pricing pressures from our customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Competition — We face significant competition in the industries and regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business. We operate in highly competitive geographies and end use areas, each with varying barriers to entry, industry structures, and competitive behavior. We regularly bid for new and continuing business in the industries and regions in which we operate and we continue to change in response to consumer demand. We cannot predict with certainty the changes that may affect our competitiveness. The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may have a significant impact on our operating results. In addition, our competitors may develop a disruptive technology or other technological innovations that could increase their ability to compete for our current or potential customers. No assurance can be given that the actions of established or potential competitors will not have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our plans and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 13 Expanding Our Current Business — We may be unable to expand our current business effectively through either organic growth, including product innovation, or acquisitions. Our business strategy includes both organic expansion of our existing operations, particularly through efforts to strengthen and expand relationships with customers in emerging markets, product innovation, including to address changes in the industry or regulatory environments, and expansion through acquisitions. However, we may not be able to execute our strategy effectively for reasons within and outside our control. Our ability to grow organically may be limited by, among other things, extensive saturation in the locations in which we operate or a change or reduction in our customers’ growth plans due to changing economic conditions, strategic priorities, or otherwise. For many of our businesses, organic growth depends on product innovation, new product development, and timely responses to changing consumer demands and preferences. Consequently, failure to develop new or improved products in response to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner may hinder our growth potential, affect our competitive position, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, over the past decade, we have pursued growth through acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets in the right geographic regions and with the right participation strategy in the future, or to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to identify acquisition targets that meet our investment criteria and close such transactions on acceptable terms, our potential for growth by way of acquisition may be restricted, which could have an adverse effect on achievement of our strategy and the resulting expected financial benefits. We also may face challenges in integrating our acquisitions with our existing operations. These challenges could include difficulty in integrating or consolidating business processes and systems and challenges with integrating the business cultures which may lead to anticipated benefits of acquisitions not being realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected or involve more costs to do so. In addition, the process of integrating operations could result in an interruption of normal business operations. Operational Risks Global Economic Conditions — Challenging current and future global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions, have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business operations and financial results. Demand for our products and services is dependent on consumer demand for our packaging products, including packaged food, beverage, healthcare, personal care, agribusiness, industrial, and other consumer goods. As a result, general economic downturns in our key geographic regions and globally can adversely affect our business operations and financial results. The COVID-19 pandemic and Russia-Ukraine conflict have increased volatility in world economies. Current global economic challenges, including relatively high inflation and supply chain constraints in key regions in which we operate, are likely to continue to put pressure on our business. When challenging economic conditions exist, our customers may delay, decrease or cancel purchases from us, and may also delay payment or fail to pay us altogether. Suppliers may have difficulty filling our orders and distributors may have difficulty getting our products to customers, which may affect our ability to meet customer demands, and result in a loss of business. Weakened global economic conditions may also result in unfavorable changes in our product prices and product mix and lower profit margins. Although we take measures to mitigate the impact of inflation, including through pricing actions and productivity programs, if these actions are not effective our cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could materially and adversely be impacted. In addition, there could be a time lag between recognizing the benefit of our mitigating actions and when the inflation occurs and there is no assurance that our mitigating measures will be able to fully mitigate the impact of inflation. Political uncertainty may also contribute to the general economic conditions in one or more markets in which we operate. For example, in fiscal year 2022, political developments and general civil unrest in South Africa and the Russia-Ukraine conflict resulted in net expenses of $213 million, including impairment and restructuring expenses. Future unrest in other regions in which we operate could result in a material impact to our financial condition. Political developments can also disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate, and may cause us to lose customers, suppliers, and employees, and adversely impact profitability. 14 International Operations — Our international operations subject us to various risks that could adversely affect our business operations and financial results. We have operations throughout the world, including facilities located in emerging markets. In fiscal year 2022, approximately 73% of our sales revenue came from developed markets and 27% came from emerging markets. We expect to continue to expand our operations in the future, particularly in the emerging markets. Management of global operations is complex, particularly given the often substantial differences in the cultural, political, and regulatory environments of the countries in which we operate. In addition, many of the countries in which we have operations, including Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, India, Peru, Russia, South Africa, and Ukraine, have underdeveloped or developing legal, regulatory, or political systems, which are subject to dynamic change, including civil unrest. The profitability of our operations may be adversely impacted by, among other things: • changes in applicable fiscal or regulatory regimes; • changes in, or difficulties in interpreting and complying with, local laws, sanctions, and regulations, including tax, labor, foreign investment and foreign exchange control laws; • nullification, modification, or renegotiation of, or difficulties or delays in enforcing, contracts with clients or joint venture partners that are subject to local law; • reversal of current political, judicial, or administrative policies encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade, or relating to the use of local agents, representatives, or partners in the relevant jurisdictions; • pandemics, such as COVID-19, impacting various regions of the world unequally; or • changes in exchange rates and inflation, including hyperinflation, which may be further exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, sustained periods of legal, regulatory, or political instability in the emerging markets in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations, which effect may be material. The recent conflict between Russia and Ukraine has negatively impacted the global economy and led to various economic sanctions being imposed by the U.S., United Kingdom, European Union, and other countries against Russia. In advance of the conflict, we proactively suspended operations at our manufacturing site in Ukraine. We also operate three manufacturing facilities in Russia which we have classified as held for sale at June 30, 2022. We have recorded impairment charges related to our operations in Ukraine and Russia of $138 million in fiscal year 2022. It is not possible to predict the broader or longer-term consequences of this conflict. Further sanctions as well as steps taken by our customers, suppliers, or other stakeholders may disrupt our ability to sell our assets in Russia. Continued escalation of geopolitical tensions related to the conflict could result in the loss of property, supply chain disruptions, significant inflationary pressure on raw material prices and cost and supply of other resources (such as energy and natural gas), fluctuations in our customers’ buying patterns given regional shortages of food ingredients and other factors, credit and capital market disruption which could impact our ability to obtain financing, increase in interest rates, and adverse foreign exchange impacts. These broader consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. The international scope of our operations, which includes limited sales of our products to entities located in countries subject to certain economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, and the U.S. Department of State, and Trade and other applicable national and supranational organizations (collectively, "Sanctions"), and operations in certain countries that are from time to time subject to Sanctions, including those enacted as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, also requires us to maintain internal processes and control procedures. Failure to do so could result in breach by our employees of various laws and regulations, including those relating to money laundering, corruption, export control, fraud, bribery, insider trading, antitrust, competition, and economic sanctions, whether due to a lack of integrity or awareness or otherwise. Any such breach could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and result in reputational damage to our business, which effect may be material. Raw Materials — Price fluctuations or shortages in the availability of raw materials, energy and other inputs could adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer of packaging products, our sales and profitability are dependent on the availability and cost of raw materials and labor and other inputs, including energy. All of the raw materials we use are purchased from third parties and our primary inputs include polymer resins and films, inks and solvents, aluminum, and fiber-based carton board. Prices for these raw materials are subject to substantial fluctuations that are beyond our control due to factors such as changing economic conditions, pandemics, such as COVID-19, currency and commodity price fluctuations, resource availability, transportation costs, weather conditions and natural disasters, geopolitical risks, including war (such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict) and 15 instability, and other factors impacting supply and demand pressures. For example, we have seen disruptions in the supply of certain raw materials, such as specialty resins, and increased price volatility of certain raw materials across many of the regions in which we operate since the second half of fiscal year 2021. Additionally, changes in international trade policy in the countries in which we operate could materially impact the cost and supply of raw materials as duties are assessed on raw materials used in our production process and global supply of key raw materials is disrupted. For example, in 2018, the U.S. government imposed a 10% tariff on all aluminum imports into the United States from China and in July 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced an investigation to determine whether imports of aluminum from Thailand and South Korea circumvented the duties on Chinese aluminum. While we have largely been able to successfully manage through these supply disruptions and related price volatility, there is no assurance we will be able to successfully navigate through any ongoing and future disruptions. Increases in costs and disruptions in supply can have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Although we seek to mitigate these risks through various strategies, including by entering into contracts with certain customers which permit certain price adjustments to reflect increased raw material costs or by otherwise seeking to increase our prices to offset increases in raw material costs and seeking alternative sources of supply for key raw materials, there is no guarantee that we will be able to anticipate or mitigate commodity and input price movements or mitigate supply disruptions. In addition, there may be delays in adjusting prices to correspond with underlying raw material costs and corresponding impacts on our working capital and level of indebtedness and any failure to anticipate or mitigate against such movements could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, which effect may be material. Commercial Risks — We are subject to production, supply, and other commercial risks, including counterparty credit risks, which may be exacerbated in times of economic volatility. We face a number of commercial risks, including (i) operational disruption, such as mechanical or technological failures or forced closures due to pandemics or war (such as COVID-19 or the Russia-Ukraine conflict), each of which could, in turn, lead to production loss and/or increased costs, (ii) shortages in manufacturing inputs due to the loss of key suppliers or their inability to supply inputs and (iii) risks associated with development projects (such as cost overruns and delays). Supply shortages, fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping capacity, or other disruptions in our supply chain, including as a result of sourcing materials from a single supplier or those that may occur related to COVID-19 or other natural disasters, or war, could affect our ability to obtain timely delivery of raw materials, equipment and other supplies, and in turn, adversely impact our ability to supply products to our customers. Such disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have implemented employee safety measures across all our supply chain facilities, including proper hygiene, social distancing and temporary screening which at a minimum are in compliance with local government regulations. These measures may not be sufficient to prevent the spread of COVID-19 among our employees. Illness, travel restrictions, absenteeism, or other workforce disruptions could negatively impact our supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, or other business activities. Additionally, the insolvency of, or contractual default by, any of our customers, suppliers, and financial institutions, such as banks and insurance providers, may have a significant adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Such risks are exacerbated in times of economic volatility (such as economic volatility caused by COVID-19 and the Russia-Ukraine conflict), either globally or in the geographies and industries in which our customers operate. If a counterparty defaults on a payment obligation to us, we may be unable to collect the amounts owed and some or all of these outstanding amounts may need to be written off. If a counterparty becomes insolvent or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations in connection with a particular project, we may need to find a replacement to fulfill that party’s obligations or, alternatively, fulfill those obligations ourselves, which is likely to be more expensive. The occurrence of any of these risks, including any default by our counterparties, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, which effect may be material and result in a competitive disadvantage. Global Health Outbreaks — Our business and operations may be adversely affected by the ongoing Coronavirus pandemic ("COVID-19") or other similar pandemics. Our business and financial results may be negatively impacted by outbreaks of contagious diseases, including COVID-19. As a result of COVID-19, governmental authorities have implemented and, in certain regions, are continuing to implement numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, limitations on gatherings, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and business shutdowns. Measures providing for business shutdowns generally exclude essential services and the critical infrastructure supporting the essential services. We have experienced minimal disruptions to our operations to date as we have largely been deemed as providing essential services. 16 COVID-19 has in the past, and could in the future result in the temporary closure of our facilities, the facilities of our suppliers, or other suppliers in our supply chain. In limited cases to date, certain customers have shut down their operations temporarily to deal with the outbreak within their facilities, which has impacted their demand, and we may continue to experience volatility in demand from temporary customer shutdowns. In addition, COVID-19 has significantly impacted and may further impact the economies and financial markets of affected countries, including negatively impacting economic growth, the proper functioning of capital markets, supply chains, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. COVID-19 may result in a prolonged economic downturn, such as increased unemployment, decreases in capital spending, business shutdowns, or economic recessions, which could negatively affect demand for our customers’ products. Despite our efforts to manage these impacts, the extent to which COVID-19 or other pandemics impact our business and operations, including our ability to secure financing at attractive rates, is unknown and the effect could be material. Attracting and Retaining Skilled Workforce — If we are unable to attract and retain our global executive management team and our skilled workforce, we may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify, attract, develop, and retain skilled personnel in our global executive management team and our operations. We focus on our talent acquisition processes, as well as our onboarding and talent and leadership programs, to ensure our key new hires and skilled personnel’s efficiency and effectiveness aligns with Amcor’s values and ways of working. However, any failure to successfully transition key new hires and retain our skilled personnel in any of our operations and our global executive management team, could impact our ability to execute on our strategic plans, make it difficult to meet our performance objectives and be disruptive to our business. We are also impacted by regional labor shortages, inflationary pressures on wages, and an increasingly competitive labor market. While we have been successful to date in responding to regional labor shortages and maintaining plans for continuity of succession, there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage through future labor shortages or recruit, develop, assimilate, motivate, and retain employees in the future who actively promote and meet the standards of our culture. Operational EHS Risks — We are subject to costs and liabilities related to current and future environment, health and safety ("EHS") laws and regulations, as well as changes in the global climate, that could adversely affect our business. We are required to comply with EHS laws, rules, and regulations in each of the countries in which we operate and do business. Additionally, many of our products come into contact with the healthcare products and food and beverages they package and therefore, we are also subject to certain local and international standards related to such products. Compliance with these laws and regulations can require significant expenditure of financial and employee resources. In addition, changes to such laws, regulations and standards are made or proposed regularly, and some of the proposals, if adopted, might, directly or indirectly, result in a material reduction in the operating results of one or more of our operating units. For instance, an increase in legislation with respect to litter related to plastic packaging or related recycling programs may cause legislators in some countries and regions in which our products are sold to consider banning or limiting certain packaging formats or materials. Additionally, increased regulation of emissions linked to climate change, including greenhouse gas (carbon) emissions and other climate-related regulations, could potentially increase the cost of our operations due to increased costs of compliance (which may not be recoverable through adjustment of prices), increased cost of fossil fuel-based inputs and increased cost of energy intensive raw material inputs. However, any such changes are uncertain, and we cannot predict the amount of additional capital expenses or operating expenses that would be necessary for compliance. Federal, state, provincial, and local laws and requirements pertaining to workplace health and safety conditions are significant factors in our business to assure our people at all locations are able to go home safely every day. Changes to these laws and requirements may result in additional costs and actions across the affected country and/or region. Various government agencies may promulgate new or modified legislation, and implement special emphasis programs and enforcement actions that could impact specific Company operations covered by the respective program. Federal, state, provincial, foreign, and local environmental requirements relating to air, soil, and water quality, handling, discharge, storage, and disposal of a variety of substances, and climate change are also significant factors in our business and changes to such requirements generally result in an increase to our costs of operations. We may be found to have environmental liability for the costs of remediating soil or water that is, or was, contaminated by us or a third party at various facilities we own, used, or operate (including facilities that may be acquired by us in the future). Legal proceedings may result in the imposition of fines or penalties, as well as mandated remediation programs, that require substantial, and in some instances, unplanned capital expenditure. We have incurred in the past, and may incur in the future, fines, penalties, and legal costs relating to environmental matters, and costs relating to the damage of natural resources, lost property values, and toxic tort claims. Provisions are raised 17 when it is considered probable that we have some liability and the amount can be reasonably estimated. However, because the extent of potential environmental damage, and the extent of our liability for such damage, is usually difficult to assess and may only be ascertained over a long period of time, our actual liability in such cases may end up being substantially higher than the currently provisioned amount. Accordingly, additional charges could be incurred that would have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position, which may be material. The effects of climate change and greenhouse gas effects may adversely affect our business. A number of governmental bodies have introduced, or are contemplating introducing, regulatory change to address the impacts of climate change, which, where implemented, may have adverse impacts on our operations or financial results. Labor Disputes — We are subject to the risk of labor disputes, which could adversely affect our business. Although we have not experienced any significant labor disputes in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will not experience labor disputes in the future, including protests and strikes, which could disrupt our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Although we consider our relations with our employees to be good, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain a satisfactory working relationship with our employees in the future. Climate Change - Our business is subject to risks related to climate change which could negatively impact our business operations and financial results. Climate change may have a progressively adverse impact on our business and those of our customers, suppliers, and partners. Many of the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct business may be affected by natural disasters, including earthquakes, snowstorms, hurricanes, flooding, forest fires, and drought. Such events may have a physical impact on our facilities, inventory, suppliers, and equipment and any unplanned downtime at any of our facilities could result in unabsorbed costs that could negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which it experienced the downtime. Longer-term climate change patterns could significantly alter customer demand which is especially true for customers who rely on supply chains routinely impacted by weather. For example, agricultural supply chains would be impacted by increased levels of drought or flooding and customers in coastal regions would be impacted by frequent flooding. Information Technology and Cybersecurity Risks Information Technology — A failure or disruption in our information technology systems could disrupt our operations, compromise customer, employee, supplier, and other data, and could negatively affect our business. We rely on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and control systems to securely manage operations and various business functions, and on various technologies to process, store, and report information about our business, and to interact with customers, suppliers, and employees around the world. In addition, our information systems increasingly rely on cloud solutions which require different security measures. These measures cover technical changes to our network security, organization, and governance changes as well as alignment of third-party suppliers on market standards. As with all information technology systems, our systems may be susceptible to damage, disruption, information loss or shutdown due to a variety of factors including power outages, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, hardware failures, computer viruses, catastrophic events, telecommunications failures, user errors, unauthorized access, and malicious or accidental destruction, or theft of information or functionality. Cybersecurity Risk — The disruption of our operations or risk of loss of our sensitive business information could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Increased cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, ransomware, unauthorized access attempts, phishing, hacking, and other types of attacks pose a risk to the security and availability of our information technology systems, including those provided by third parties. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience actual and attempted cyber-attacks of our information technology systems and networks. Geopolitical turmoil, including as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, heightens the risk of cyber-attacks. While we have operational safeguards in place to detect and prevent cyber-attacks and to date have not experienced any significant impacts, our safeguards may not always be able to prevent a cyber-attack from impacting our systems which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, our customers and suppliers are susceptible to cyber-attacks and disruption to their information technology systems could result in reduced demand for our products or limit our ability to supply our products. We also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer controls. Despite our efforts to protect such information, our facilities and systems 18 and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber-attacks, misplaced or lost data, and programming and/or user errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information. Information system damages, disruptions, shutdowns, or compromises could result in production downtimes and operational disruptions, transaction errors, loss of customers, and business opportunities, violation of privacy laws and legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, negative publicity resulting in reputational damage, reimbursement or compensatory payments, and other costs, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, which affect may be material and result in a competitive disadvantage. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, our systems, networks, products, and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. Financial Risks Indebtedness and Credit Rating — A significant increase in our indebtedness or a downgrade in our credit rating could reduce our operating flexibility and increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. At June 30, 2022, we had $6.5 billion of debt outstanding and a $1.4 billion undrawn revolving credit facility and we  are not restricted in incurring, and may incur, additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our indebtedness is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows which is dependent, in part, on prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to maintain sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our debt commitments, our financial condition and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely impacted. We use cash provided by operations, commercial paper issuances, bank term loans, committed revolving credit facilities, debt issuances, and equity issuances to meet our funding needs. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on many factors, including our financial results, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the global economy. Any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt. Actions taken by the rating agencies include maintaining, upgrading or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for a possible future downgrade. If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, place us on a watch list, or if there are adverse market conditions, including disruptions in the commercial paper market, the impacts could include reduced access to the commercial paper, credit and capital markets, an increase in the cost of our borrowings or the fees associated with our bank credit facility, or an increase in the credit spread incurred when issuing debt in the capital markets. Refer to "Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Liquidity and Capital Resources," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our credit rating profile. In addition, a significant number of our operating subsidiaries are not guarantors of our indebtedness. In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves, or otherwise winds up, the assets of such subsidiary will be used to satisfy the claims of its creditors. The non-guarantor subsidiaries have no direct obligations in respect of our indebtedness and therefore, a direct claim against any non-guarantor subsidiary and any claims to enforce payment on our indebtedness will be structurally subordinated to all of the claims of the creditors of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. Exchange Rates — We are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk, both transactional and translational, which may negatively affect our financial performance. Transactional foreign exchange exposures result from exchange rate fluctuations, including in respect of the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Russian ruble and other currencies, including in Latin America, in which our costs are denominated, which may affect our business input costs and proceeds from product sales. Translational foreign exchange exposures result from exchange rate fluctuations in the conversion of entity functional currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, and may affect the reported value of our assets and liabilities and our income and expenses. In particular, our translational exposure may be impacted by movements in the exchange rate between the Euro, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Australian Dollar, the Chinese Yuan, and the Brazilian Real against the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates between transactional currencies may change rapidly due to a variety of factors. In addition, we have recognized foreign exchange losses related to the currency devaluation in Argentina and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. See Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding highly inflationary accounting. To the extent currency devaluation occurs across our business, we are likely to experience a lag in the timing to pass through U.S. dollar-denominated input costs across our business, which would adversely impact our margins and profitability. As such, we may be exposed to future exchange rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our 19 reported cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations, the effect of which may be material. Our Board of Directors has approved a hedging policy to limit and manage the risk of such foreign exchange fluctuations, however, if our hedges are not effective in mitigating our foreign currency risks, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Interest Rates — Rising interest rates increase our borrowing costs on our variable rate indebtedness and could have other negative impacts. As of June 30, 2022, approximately fifty percent of our indebtedness was subject to variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our debt service obligations increase on our variable rate indebtedness even though the amount borrowed remains the same. Increases in short-term interest rates will directly impact the amount of interest we pay. We manage exposure to interest rates by maintaining a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, monitoring global interest rates, and, where appropriate, entering into various derivative instruments. However, if our derivative instruments are not effective in mitigating our interest rate risk, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, rising interest rates could reduce the attractiveness of cash management programs we use, such as customer and supply chain finance programs, which could negatively impact our cash and working capital and increase our borrowings. Refer to Note 14, "Debt," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our variable rate borrowings. Also refer to "Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk," including interest rate risk, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets — A significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position. As of June 30, 2022, we had $6.9 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. We review our goodwill balance for impairment at least once a year and whenever events or a change in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred using the business valuation methods allowed in accordance with current accounting standards. Future changes in the cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause our goodwill and/or other intangible assets to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write down these assets for the amount of the impairment. In addition, if we make changes in our business strategy or if external conditions, such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, adversely affect our business operations, we may be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill or intangibles, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating results. If a significant write down is required, the charge would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and net worth. We have identified the valuation of intangible assets and goodwill as a critical accounting estimate. See "Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Internal Controls — If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting we may not be able to accurately report our financial results which may adversely affect investor confidence and adversely impact our stock price. We have been subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("SOX") since fiscal year 2020. While our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet the standards set forth in SOX, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements as any controls or procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance from misstatement. We identified two material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in connection with our listing on the NYSE in 2019 related to U.S. GAAP expertise and segregation of duties within key information technology systems which were remediated in fiscal years 2020 and 2021, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will not identify new material weaknesses in the future. Any newly identified material weaknesses could limit our ability to prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial results, lead to a loss of investor confidence, and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. Insurance — Our insurance policies, including our use of a captive insurance company, may not provide adequate protection against all of the risks we face. We seek protection from a number of our key operational risk exposures through the purchase of insurance. A significant portion of our insurance is placed in the insurance market with third-party re-insurers. Our policies with such third-party re-insurers cover a variety of risk exposures, including property damage. Although we believe the coverage provided by such policies is consistent with industry practice, they may not adequately cover certain risks and there is no guarantee that any 20 claims made under such policies will ultimately be paid or that we will be able to maintain such insurance at acceptable premium cost levels in the future. Additionally, we retain a portion of our insurable risk through a captive insurance company, Amcor Insurances Pte Ltd, which is located in Singapore. Our captive insurance company collects annual premiums from our business groups, and assumes specific risks relating to various risk exposures, including property damage. The captive insurance company may be required to make payment for insurance claims which exceed the captive's reserves, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Legal and Compliance Risks Intellectual Property — Our inability to defend our intellectual property rights or intellectual property infringement claims against us could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete effectively. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to protect and maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. We own a number of patents on our products, aspects of our products, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing, and we own, or have licenses to use, the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, and other unpatented proprietary technology. If we are unable to detect the infringement of our intellectual property or to enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may suffer. The use of our intellectual property by someone else without our authorization could reduce certain of our competitive advantages, cause us to lose sales or otherwise harm our business. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our intellectual property and proprietary information by relying on the patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as non-disclosure agreements. However, it may be possible for a third party to obtain our information without our authorization, independently develop similar technologies, or breach a non-disclosure agreement entered into with us. Our pending patent applications, and our pending trademark registration applications, may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks. Our competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. In addition, our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. Furthermore, many of the countries in which we operate, particularly the emerging markets, do not have intellectual property laws that protect proprietary rights as fully as the laws of the more developed jurisdictions in which we operate, such as the United States and the European Union. The costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights could also adversely impact our business. Similarly, while we have not received any significant claims from third parties suggesting that we may be infringing on their intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will not receive such claims in the future. If we were held liable for a claim of infringement, we could be required to pay damages, obtain licenses or cease making or selling certain products. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to us and divert the attention of management, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Failure to protect our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Litigation — Litigation, including product liability claims, or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations, and financial performance. We are, and in the future will likely become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Given our global footprint, we are exposed to more uncertainty regarding the regulatory environment. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is typically uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes of, or resolutions to, these proceedings could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments. In addition, actions we have taken or may take, or decisions we have made or may make, as a consequence of COVID-19 or the Russia-Ukraine conflict, may result in legal claims or litigation against us. Refer to "Item 3. - Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") Practices — Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, customers, and governments with respect to our ESG practices and commitments may impose additional costs on us or expose us to additional risks. 21 There is an increased scrutiny from shareholders, customers, and governments on corporate ESG practices. Our commitment to sustainability and ESG practices remains at the core of our business and we have established goals and targets related to our commitment. However, our ESG practices may not meet the standards of all of our stakeholders and advocacy groups may campaign for further changes. Many of our large, global customers are also committing to long-term targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within their supply chains. If we are unable to support customers in achieving these reductions, customers may seek out competitors who are better able to support such reductions. A failure, or perceived failure, to respond to expectations of all parties, including with meeting our own climate-related and other ESG target ambitions, could cause harm to our business and reputation and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. New government regulations could also result in new or more stringent forms of ESG oversight and disclosures which may result in increased expenditures for environmental controls, new taxes on the products we produce and significantly increase our compliance costs to meet new disclosure requirements. Environmental, Health, and Safety regulations — Changing government regulations in environmental, health, and safety matters, including climate change, may adversely affect our company. Numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been passed and anticipated in response to concerns about greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. We are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products. Increased environmental legislation or regulation, including regulations related to extended producer responsibility ("EPR"), could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw material cost, increased energy and freight costs, and new taxes on packaging products or result in reduced demand. It is possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. Government bans of, or restrictions on certain materials or packaging formats may close off markets to Amcor's business. Mandates to use certain types of materials, such as post-consumer recycled ("PCR") content, may lead to supply shortages and higher prices for those materials as current recycling rates may be insufficient to meet increased demand for PCR within and beyond the packaging industry. We could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. Additionally, a sizable portion of our business comes from healthcare packaging and food and beverage packaging, both highly regulated markets. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Tax Law Changes —Changes in tax laws or changes in our geographic mix of earnings could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operation. We are subject to income and other taxes in the many jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws and regulations are complex and the determination of our global provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. We are subject to routine examinations of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. Our future income taxes could also be negatively impacted by our mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate being different than anticipated given differences in statutory tax rates in the countries in which we operate. In addition, certain tax policy efforts, including any tax law changes resulting from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") and the G20's inclusive framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS"), could adversely impact our tax rate and subsequent tax expense. Despite the publication of the Anti Global Base Erosion model rules and initial commentary, there are many open points to be clarified and there is still significant uncertainty, which we will continue to monitor until a more conclusive assessment will be possible. Risks Relating to Being a Jersey, Channel Islands Company Listing Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares are issued under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, which may not provide the level of legal certainty and transparency afforded by incorporation in a U.S. jurisdiction and which differ in some respects to the laws applicable to other U.S. corporations. We are organized under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, a British crown dependency that is an island located off the coast of Normandy, France. Jersey is not a member of the European Union. Jersey, Channel Islands legislation regarding companies is largely based on English corporate law principles. The rights of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by Jersey law, including the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, and by the Amcor Articles of Association, as may be amended from time to time. These rights differ in some respects from the rights of other shareholders in corporations incorporated in the United States. Further, there can be no assurance that the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, will not change in the future or that they will serve to protect investors in a similar fashion afforded under corporate law principles in the U.S., which could adversely affect the rights of investors. 22 U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us. A significant portion of our assets are located outside of the United States and several of our directors and officers are citizens or residents of jurisdictions outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to successfully serve a claim within the United States upon those non-U.S. directors and officers, or to enforce judgments realized in the United States. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be directly enforceable outside of the U.S. and the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts outside of the U.S., including those in Australia and Jersey, may be subject to limitations. Investors may also have difficulties pursuing an original action brought in a court in a jurisdiction outside the U.S., including Australia and Jersey, for liabilities under the securities laws of the U.S. Additionally, our Articles of Association provide that while the Royal Court of Jersey will have non-exclusive jurisdiction over actions brought against us, the Royal Court of Jersey will be the sole and exclusive forum for derivative shareholder actions, actions for breach of fiduciary duty by our directors and officers, actions arising out of Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, or actions asserting a claim against our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The exclusive forum provision would not prevent derivative shareholder actions based on claims arising under U.S. federal securities laws from being raised in a U.S. court and would not prevent a U.S. court from asserting jurisdiction over such claims. However, there is uncertainty whether a U.S. or Jersey court would enforce the exclusive forum provision for actions claiming breach of fiduciary duty and other claims. 23

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Two Year Review of Results 28 Overview Amcor is a global leader in developing and producing responsible packaging for food, beverage, pharmaceutical, medical, home and personal-care, and other products. We work with leading companies around the world to protect their products and the people who rely on them, differentiate brands, and improve supply chains through a range of flexible and rigid packaging, specialty cartons, closures, and services. We are focused on making packaging that is increasingly light-weighted, recyclable and reusable, and made using an increasing amount of recycled content. During fiscal year 2022, Amcor generated $14.5 billion in sales from operations that spanned 221 locations in over 40 countries. Significant Items Affecting the Periods Presented Impact of COVID-19 We continue to monitor the impact of the ongoing 2019 Novel Coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic on all aspects of our business. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in intermittent regional government restrictions on the movement of people, goods, and non-essential services resulting in a period of historic uncertainty and challenges. We remain focused on our commitment to the health and safety of our employees as our first priority. We expect to continue to evaluate our response and related precautions until the COVID-19 pandemic has been fully resolved as a public health crisis. We have experienced minimal disruptions to our operations to date as we have largely been deemed as providing essential services. Our facilities have largely been exempt from government mandated closure orders and while governmental measures may be modified, we expect that our facilities will remain operational given the essential products we supply. However, despite our best efforts to contain the impact in our facilities, it remains possible that significant disruptions could occur as a result of the pandemic, including temporary closures of our facilities due to outbreaks of the virus among our workforce or government mandates. We continue to believe we are well-positioned to meet the challenges of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. However, we cannot reasonably estimate the duration and severity of this pandemic or its ultimate impact on the global economy and our operations and financial results. The ultimate near-term impact of the pandemic on our business will depend on the extent and nature of any future disruptions across the supply chain, the implementation of further social distancing measures and other government-imposed restrictions, as well as the nature and pace of macroeconomic recovery in key global economies. Raw Material, Inflation, and Supply Chain Trends During fiscal year 2022, we experienced persistent supply shortages and price volatility of certain resins and raw materials in both of our reportable segments as a result of market dynamics that first materialized in the second half of fiscal year 2021 and higher rates of regional inflation impacting energy, fuel, and labor costs. The underlying causes for the volatility can be attributed to a variety of factors, including the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in labor shortages and transportation constraints, energy shortages and weather disruptions impacting raw material supply in certain regions. The complex factors driving ongoing market volatility continue and could be further exacerbated by the continuation of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. We intend to continue to work closely with our suppliers and customers, leveraging our global capabilities and expertise to work through supply and other resulting issues. South Africa Fire On July 13, 2021, our Durban, South Africa, manufacturing facility was destroyed by fire associated with general civil unrest. The facility employed 350 individuals and no employees were injured as the facility had been closed in advance of the disturbance. In fiscal year 2022, we recorded $45 million in expense before insurance settlements, primarily related to inventory, property, and equipment losses from the fire and other related expenses. We have insurance for the majority of property and other losses resulting from the fire and have received $33 million in insurance settlements in fiscal year 2022. Russia-Ukraine Conflict Russia's invasion of Ukraine that began in February 2022 continues as of the date of the filing of this annual report. In advance of the invasion, we proactively suspended operations at our small manufacturing site in Ukraine. We also operate three manufacturing facilities in Russia. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, after a thorough review of our strategic options, we committed to sell our Russian operations, which resulted in a non-cash $90 million impairment charge. 29 Since our decision in March 2022 to scale back our Russian operations, we have remained committed to continuing to support our Russian and Ukraine employees and customers. We are proactively taking steps to mitigate the financial impact of exiting our Russian operations, including adjusting our European footprint to reallocate and consolidate volumes from Russia and Ukraine to leverage utilization and deliver enhanced efficiencies across Central and Western Europe, as well as taking actions to restructure our regional cost base. In addition to the $90 million in impairment charges on assets held for sale, we incurred $48 million in other impairment charges given the expectation that certain assets not held for sale in the conflict region will not be recoverable, and $62 million in restructuring and other costs in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. We expect approximately $30 million in additional restructuring and other costs in fiscal year 2023 related to our exit decision. For further information, refer to Note 4, "Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Expenses, net," Note 6, "Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations," and Note 7, "Restructuring" of "Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 2019 Bemis Integration Plan In connection with the acquisition of Bemis Company, Inc. ("Bemis"), we initiated restructuring activities in the fourth quarter of 2019 aimed at integrating and optimizing the combined organization. We have exceeded the targeted pre-tax synergies of $180 million by approximately 10% driven by procurement, supply chain and general and administrative savings as of June 30, 2022. The 2019 Bemis Integration Plan was completed by June 30, 2022, with final pre-tax integration cost amounting to $253 million. The total 2019 Bemis Integration Plan cost includes $213 million of restructuring and related expenses, net, and $40 million of general integration expenses. The net cash expenditures for the plan, including disposal proceeds, are $170 million, of which $40 million relates to general integration expenses. As part of this Plan, we have incurred $144 million in employee related expenses, $36 million in fixed asset related expenses, $39 million in other restructuring and $45 million in restructuring related expenses, partially offset by a gain on disposal of a business of $51 million. In fiscal year 2022, the Plan resulted in net cash outflows of $49 million of which $47 million were payments related to restructuring and related expenditures. The remaining cash outflow will be primarily incurred in fiscal year 2023. 2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan On August 21, 2018, we announced a restructuring plan in Amcor Rigid Packaging ("2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan") aimed at reducing structural costs and optimizing the footprint. The Plan included the closures of manufacturing facilities and headcount reductions to achieve manufacturing footprint optimization and productivity improvements, as well as overhead cost reductions. The 2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan was completed by June 30, 2021 with total pre-tax restructuring costs of $121 million, of which $78 million resulted in cash expenditures, with the main component being the cost to exit manufacturing facilities and employee related costs. For more information about our restructuring plans, refer to Note 7, "Restructuring." Equity Method Investment - AMVIG Holdings Limited ("AMVIG") We sold our equity method investment in AMVIG on September 30, 2020, realizing a net gain of $15 million, which was recorded in equity in income/(loss) of affiliated companies, net of tax in the consolidated statements of income. Prior to the sale and due to impairment indicators being present for the year ended June 30, 2020, we performed impairment tests by comparing the carrying value of our investment in AMVIG to the fair value of the investment, which was determined based on AMVIG's quoted share price. We recorded an impairment charge of $26 million in fiscal year 2020, as the fair value of the investment was below its carrying value. Refer to Note 8, "Equity Method and Other Investments." Highly Inflationary Accounting We have subsidiaries in Argentina that historically had a functional currency of the Argentine Peso. As of June 30, 2018, the Argentine economy was designated as highly inflationary for accounting purposes. Accordingly, beginning July 1, 2018, we began reporting the financial results of our Argentine subsidiaries with a functional currency of the U.S. dollar. The transition to highly inflationary accounting resulted in a negative impact on monetary balances of $16 million, $19 million, and $28 million that was reflected in the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. 30 Results of Operations The following is a discussion and analysis of changes in the results of operations for fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021. A discussion and analysis regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021, filed with the SEC on August 24, 2021 and incorporated by reference. Consolidated Results of Operations Net sales increased by $1,683 million, or by 13.1%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding the impact of disposed and ceased operations of $87 million, or (0.7%), negative currency impacts of $249 million, or (1.9%), and pass-through of raw material costs of $1,530 million, or 11.9%, the increase in net sales for the fiscal year 2022 was $490 million or 3.8%, driven by marginally favorable volumes of 0.4% and favorable price/mix of 3.4%. Net income attributable to Amcor plc decreased by $134 million, or by 14.3%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, mainly as a result of increased restructuring, impairment, and related expenses, net of $140 million, largely due to costs related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and higher tax charges of $39 million, offset by increased gross profit of $88 million. Diluted earnings per share ("Diluted EPS") decreased by $0.073, or by 12.1%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, with net income attributable to ordinary shareholders decreasing by 14.3% and the diluted weighted-average number of shares outstanding decreasing by 2.6%. The decrease in the diluted weighted-average number of shares outstanding was due to repurchase of shares under announced share buyback programs. Segment Results of Operations Flexibles Segment The Flexibles reportable segment develops and supplies flexible packaging globally. Net sales including intersegment sales increased by $1,111 million, or by 11.1%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding the impact of disposed and ceased operations of $87 million, or (0.8%), negative currency impacts of $248 million, or (2.5%), and pass-through of raw material costs of $1,091 million, or 10.9%, the increase in net sales including intersegment sales for fiscal year 2022 was $355 million, or 3.5%, driven by favorable price/mix. Adjusted earnings before interest and tax from continuing operations ("Adjusted EBIT") increased by $90 million, or by 6.3% in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding the impact of disposed and ceased operations of $4 million, or (0.2%) and negative currency impacts of $31 million, or 2.3%, the increase in Adjusted EBIT for fiscal year 2022 was $125 million, or 8.8%, driven by favorable price/mix of 8.0%, plant cost improvements of 2.4% and favorable volumes of 0.8%, partially offset by unfavorable selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") and other cost impacts of (2.4%). 31 Rigid Packaging Segment The Rigid Packaging reportable segment manufactures rigid packaging containers and related products. Net sales increased by $570 million, or by 20.2%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. Excluding positive currency impacts of $1 million, and pass-through of raw material costs of $439 million, or 15.6%, the increase in net sales including intersegment sales for the fiscal year 2022 was $132 million, or 4.7%, driven by favorable volumes of 2.8% and favorable price/mix of 1.9%. Adjusted EBIT decreased by $10 million, or by 3.3%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. With minor impacts from currency impacts, the decrease in Adjusted EBIT for fiscal year 2022 was $10 million, or 3.5%, driven by favorable price/mix of 20.5%, favorable volumes of 9.2%, unfavorable plant costs of (30.0%), and unfavorable selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A"), and other cost impacts of (3.2%). Consolidated Gross Profit Gross profit increased by $88 million, or by 3.2%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was primarily driven by the increase in net sales of 13.1% referred to above. Gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased to 19.4% for the fiscal year 2022, primarily due to the impact on the calculation from the pass through of higher raw material costs during the period. Consolidated Selling, General, and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses SG&A decreased by $8 million, or by 0.6%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, largely driven by favorable exchange rates. Consolidated Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Expenses, Net Restructuring, impairment, and related costs increased by $140 million, or by 148.9%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was primarily driven by the non-recurrence of a gain on disposal of a non-core European hospital supplies business of $52 million in fiscal year 2021, and charges related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict in fiscal year 2022, offset by the completion of the Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan in June 2021. Consolidated Other Income, Net 32 Other income, net decreased by $42 million, or by 56.0% , in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, mainly due to the non-reoccurrence of credits related to a favorable Brazil Supreme Court ruling on Brazil indirect tax in fiscal year 2021. Consolidated Interest Income Interest income increased by $10 million, or by 71.4%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021, mainly driven by yield improvements on Euro denominated commercial paper and improved rates on cash balances held by the Group. Consolidated Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $6 million, or by 3.9%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021 due to higher short-term variable rates. Consolidated Income Tax Expense Income tax expense increased by $39 million, or by 14.9%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. The increase was predominantly attributable to an increase in tax provisions for uncertain tax positions. 33 Presentation of Non-GAAP Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to non-GAAP financial measures: adjusted earnings before interest and taxes ("Adjusted EBIT"), adjusted net income, and net debt. Such measures have not been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). These non-GAAP financial measures adjust for factors that are unusual or unpredictable. These measures exclude the impact of significant tax reforms, certain amounts related to the effect of changes in currency exchange rates, acquisitions, and restructuring, including employee-related costs, equipment relocation costs, accelerated depreciation, and the write-down of equipment. These measures also exclude gains or losses on sales of significant property and divestitures, significant property and other impairments, net of insurance recovery, certain litigation matters, significant pension settlements, impairments in goodwill and equity method investments, and certain acquisition-related expenses, including transaction expenses, due diligence expenses, professional and legal fees, purchase accounting adjustments for inventory, order backlog, intangible amortization, changes in the fair value of deferred acquisition payments, and impacts related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. This adjusted information should not be construed as an alternative to results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use the non-GAAP measures to evaluate operating performance and believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to enable investors and other external parties to perform comparisons of our current and historical performance. A reconciliation of reported net income attributable to Amcor plc to Adjusted EBIT from continuing operations and adjusted net income from continuing operations for fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020 is as follows: (1) Material restructuring programs includes restructuring and related expenses for the 2019 Bemis Integration Plan for fiscal year 2022 and 2018 Rigid Packaging Restructuring Plan and the 2019 Bemis Integration Plan for fiscal years 2021 and 2020. Refer to Note 7, "Restructuring," for more information about our restructuring activities. 34 (2) Impairments in equity method investments include the impairment charges related to other-than-temporary impairments related to the investment in AMVIG. During the fiscal year 2021, we sold our interest in AMVIG. Refer to Note 8, "Equity Method and Other Investments," for more information about our equity method investments. (3) Includes costs associated with the Bemis transaction. Fiscal year 2021 includes a $19 million benefit related to Brazil indirect taxes resulting from a May 2021 Brazil Supreme Court decision. During fiscal year 2020, material acquisition costs and other includes $58 million amortization of Bemis acquisition related inventory fair value step-up and $88 million of Bemis transaction related costs and integration costs not qualifying as exit costs, including certain advisory, legal, audit, and audit related fees. (4) Amortization of acquired intangible assets from business combinations includes amortization expenses related to all acquired intangible assets from past acquisitions, including $26 million of sales backlog amortization for the fiscal year 2020 from the Bemis acquisition. (5) Impact of hyperinflation includes the adverse impact of highly inflationary accounting for subsidiaries in Argentina where the functional currency was the Argentine Peso. (6) Pension settlements in fiscal year 2022 relate to the purchases of group annuity contracts and transfer of pension plan assets and related benefit obligations. Refer to Note 13, "Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans," for more information. For fiscal year 2020, impact of pension settlements includes the amount of actuarial losses recognized in the consolidated statements of income related to the settlement of certain defined benefit plans, not including related tax effects. (7) Net (gain)/loss on disposals includes an expense of $10 million from the disposal of non-core assets for fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 11, "Fair Value Measurements," for more information. Fiscal year 2021 includes the gain realized upon the disposal of AMVIG and the loss upon disposal of other non-core businesses not part of material restructuring programs. Refer to Note 8, "Equity Method and Other Investments," for further information on the disposal of AMVIG and Note 5, "Divestitures," for more information about our other disposals. (8) Property and other losses, net includes property and related business losses primarily associated with the destruction of our Durban, South Africa facility during general civil unrest in July 2021, net of insurance recovery. (9) Russia-Ukraine conflict impacts include $138 million of impairment charges, $57 million of restructuring and related expenses, and $5 million of other expenses for fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 4,"Restructuring, Impairment, and Related Expenses, Net," and Note 7, "Restructuring," for further information. (10) Net tax impact on items (1) through (9) above. Reconciliation of Net Debt A reconciliation of total debt to net debt at June 30, 2022 and 2021 is as follows: 35 Supplemental Guarantor Information Amcor plc, along with certain wholly owned subsidiary guarantors, guarantee the following senior notes issued by the wholly owned subsidiaries, Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. and Amcor UK Finance plc. • 4.000% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2025 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • 3.100% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • 2.630% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2030 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • 2.690% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2031 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • 1.125% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2027 of Amcor UK Finance plc The six notes issued by Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. are guaranteed by its parent entity Amcor plc and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc., and Amcor UK Finance plc. The note issued by Amcor UK Finance plc is guaranteed by its parent entity, Amcor plc and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc., and Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. On June 30, 2022, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. entered into supplemental indentures governing Amcor Finance (USA), Inc.'s 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028 relating to the substitution of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. for Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and the assumption by Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. of the covenants of Amcor Finance (USA), Inc in the indenture and the securities. Both Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. remain as guarantors of the 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 and 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028. All guarantors fully, unconditionally, and irrevocably guarantee, on a joint and several basis, to each holder of the notes, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium and interest on, such note and all other amounts payable, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the notes and related indenture. The obligations of the applicable guarantors under their guarantees will be limited as necessary to recognize certain defenses generally available to guarantors (including those that relate to fraudulent conveyance or transfer, voidable preference, financial assistance, corporate purpose, or similar laws) under applicable law. The guarantees will be unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the guarantors and will rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt of each guarantor. None of our other subsidiaries guarantee such notes. The issuers and guarantors conduct large parts of their operations through other subsidiaries of Amcor plc. Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. is incorporated in Missouri in the United States, Amcor UK Finance plc is incorporated in England and Wales, United Kingdom, and the guarantors are incorporated under the laws of Jersey, Australia, the United States, and England and Wales and, therefore, insolvency proceedings with respect to the issuers and guarantors could proceed under, and be governed by, among others, Jersey, Australian, United States, or English insolvency law, as the case may be, if either issuer or any guarantor defaults on its obligations under the applicable Notes or Guarantees, respectively. Set forth below is the summarized financial information of the combined Obligor Group made up of Amcor plc (as parent guarantor), Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. and Amcor UK Finance plc (as subsidiary issuers of the notes and guarantors of each other’s notes), and Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. and Amcor Pty Ltd (as the remaining subsidiary guarantors). 36 Basis of Preparation The following summarized financial information is presented for the parent, issuer, and guarantor subsidiaries ("Obligor Group") on a combined basis after elimination of intercompany transactions between entities in the combined group and amounts related to investments in any subsidiary that is a non-guarantor. This information is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the combined group of companies in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Statement of Income for Obligor Group (in millions) (1) Includes $648 million of net intercompany income mainly attributable to intercompany dividends and intercompany interest income. Balance Sheet for Obligor Group (in millions) 37 Liquidity and Capital Resources We finance our business primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings from banks, and proceeds from issuances of debt and equity. We periodically review our capital structure and liquidity position in light of market conditions, expected future cash flows, potential funding requirements for debt refinancing, capital expenditures and acquisitions, the cost of capital, sensitivity analyses reflecting downside scenarios, the impact on our financial metrics and credit ratings, and our ease of access to funding sources. The COVID-19 pandemic and geopolitical tensions have not materially impacted our liquidity position, current and expected cash flows from operating activities, or available cash. We believe that our cash flows provided by operating activities, together with borrowings available under our credit facilities and access to the commercial paper market, backstopped by our bank debt facilities, will continue to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and other commitments, including dividends and purchases of our ordinary shares and CHESS Depositary Instruments under authorized share repurchase programs, into the foreseeable future. Overview Cash Flow Overview Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash inflows provided by operating activities increased by $65 million, or by 4%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. This increase was primarily due to higher net income, adjusted for non-cash items, in fiscal year 2022, partially offset by working capital outflows compared with fiscal year 2021. The variance in "Other, net" within net cash inflows provided by operating activities is primarily attributed to the timing of tax payments between periods. Net Cash (Used in)/Provided by Investing Activities Net cash outflows from investing activities increased by $294 million, or by 126%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. This increase was primarily due to higher disposal proceeds from the disposal of AMVIG, the European hospital supplies business and other non-core businesses in fiscal year 2021 and higher capital expenditures in fiscal year 2022. Capital expenditures were $527 million for fiscal year 2022, an increase of $59 million compared to $468 million for fiscal year 2021. The increase in capital expenditures was primarily due to the increased capital spending in the Flexibles segment. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash flows used in financing activities decreased by $288 million, or by 24%, in fiscal year 2022, compared to fiscal year 2021. This decrease is primarily due to higher cash net debt drawdowns compared with fiscal year 2021, partially offset by higher share buybacks and on-market purchases of own shares in fiscal year 2022. Net Debt We borrow from financial institutions and debt investors in the form of bank overdrafts, bank loans, corporate bonds, unsecured notes, and commercial paper. We have a mixture of fixed and floating interest rates and use interest rate swaps to provide further flexibility in managing the interest cost of borrowings. Short-term debt consists of bank debt with a duration of less than 12 months and bank overdrafts which are classified as current due to the short-term nature of the borrowings, except where we have the ability and intent to refinance and as such extend the debt beyond 12 months. The current portion of long-term debt consists of debt amounts repayable within a year after the balance sheet date. 38 Our primary bank debt facilities and notes are unsecured and subject to negative pledge arrangements limiting the amount of secured indebtedness we can incur to 10.0% of our total tangible assets, subject to some exceptions and variations by facility. In addition, the covenants of the bank debt facilities require us to maintain a leverage ratio not higher than 3.9 times. The negative pledge arrangements and the financial covenants are defined in the related debt agreements. As of June 30, 2022, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants under our bank debt facilities. Our net debt as of June 30, 2022 and June 30, 2021 was $5.7 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively. Available Financing As of June 30, 2022, we had undrawn credit facilities available in the amount of $1.4 billion. Our senior facilities are available to fund working capital, growth capital expenditures, and refinancing obligations and are provided to us by two bank syndicates. These facilities mature in April 2025 and April 2027, respectively, and the revolving tranches have two 12-month options available to management to extend the maturity date. As of June 30, 2022, the revolving senior bank debt facilities had an aggregate limit of $3.8 billion, of which $2.4 billion had been drawn (inclusive of amounts drawn under commercial paper programs reducing the overall balance of available senior facilities). On April 26, 2022, we terminated the previously existing senior bank debt facilities, and simultaneously, we entered into new three- and five-year syndicated facility agreements providing an aggregate limit of $3.8 billion. Subject to certain conditions, we can request the total commitment level under each agreement to be increased by up to $500 million. For further information, refer to Note 14, "Debt." On May 17, 2022, we issued U.S. dollar notes with a principal amount of $500 million and a contractual maturity in May 2025. The notes pay a coupon of 4.00% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears. On December 15, 2021, we redeemed U.S. private placement notes of a principal amount of $275 million at maturity. The notes carried an interest rate of 5.95%. On July 15, 2021, we redeemed U.S. dollar notes with a principal amount of $400 million that had a contractual maturity of October 15, 2021 and carried an interest rate of 4.50%. Dividend Payments In fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, we paid $732 million, $742 million, and $761 million, respectively, in dividends. Credit Rating Our capital structure and financial practices have earned us investment grade credit ratings from two internationally recognized credit rating agencies. These investment grade credit ratings are important to our ability to issue debt at favorable rates of interest, for various terms, and from a diverse range of markets that are highly liquid, including European and U.S. debt capital markets and from global financial institutions. Share Repurchases On August 17, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and CHESS Depositary Instruments ("CDIs"). In addition, on February 1, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an additional $200 million buyback of ordinary shares and CDIs. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022, we repurchased approximately $600 million, excluding transaction costs, or 49 million shares. The shares repurchased were canceled upon repurchase. Additionally, on August 17, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a further $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and/or CDIs in the next twelve months. We had cash outflows of $143 million, $8 million, and $67 million for the purchase of our shares in the open market during fiscal years 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, as treasury shares to satisfy the vesting and exercises of share-based compensation awards. As of June 30, 2022, 2021, and 2020, we held treasury shares at cost of $18 million, $29 million, and $67 million, representing 2 million, 3 million, and 7 million shares, respectively. 39 Material Cash Requirements Amcor’s material cash requirements for future periods from known contractual obligations are included below. We expect to fund these cash requirements primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings from banks, and proceeds from issuances of debt and equity. These amounts reflect material cash requirements for which we are contractually committed. • Debt obligations: Refer to Note 14, “Debt” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our debt obligations and the related timing of these expected payments. • Interest payments: Refer to Note 14, “Debt” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our interest payments and the related timing of the expected payments. • Operating and finance leases: Refer to Note 15, “Leases” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our lease obligations and the related timing of the expected payments. • Employee benefit plan obligations: Refer to Note 13, “Pension and Other Post-Retirement Plans” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our employee benefit plan obligations and the related timing of the expected payments. • Capital expenditures: As of June 30, 2022, we have $223 million in committed capital expenditures for the fiscal year 2023. • Other purchase obligations: Amcor has other purchase obligations, including commitments to purchase a specified minimum amount of goods, inclusive of raw materials, utilities, and other. These obligations are legally binding and non-cancellable. Where we are unable to determine the periods in which these obligations could be payable under these contracts, we present the cash requirement in the earliest period in which the minimum obligation could be payable. The estimated future cash outlays are approximately $1.6 billion, $550 million, $500 million, $300 million, and $100 million in fiscal years 2023, 2024, 2025, 2026, and 2027, respectively. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than as described under "Material Cash Requirements" as of June 30, 2022, we had no significant off-balance sheet contractual obligations or other commitments. Liquidity Risk and Outlook Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that we might encounter difficulty in settling our debts or otherwise meeting our obligations related to financial liabilities. We manage liquidity risk centrally and such management involves maintaining available funding and ensuring that we have access to an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of our business, the aim is to maintain flexibility within our funding structure through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, corporate bonds, unsecured notes, and commercial paper. The following guidelines are used to manage our liquidity risk: • maintaining minimum undrawn committed liquidity of at least $200 million that can be drawn at short notice; • regularly performing a comprehensive analysis of all cash inflows and outflows in relation to operational, investing, and financing activities; • generally using tradable instruments only in highly liquid markets; • maintaining a senior credit investment grade rating with a reputable independent rating agency; • managing credit risk related to financial assets; • monitoring the duration of long-term debt; • only investing surplus cash with major financial institutions; and • to the extent practicable, spreading the maturity dates of long-term debt facilities. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022, we terminated our 3-, 4-, and 5-year syndicated facility agreements. The three facility agreements collectively provided $3.8 billion of credit facilities. On the same day, we entered into three- and five-year syndicated facility agreements that each provide a revolving credit facility of $1.9 billion, $3.8 billion in total. The facilities are unsecured and have contractual maturities in April 2025 and April 2027, respectively. The agreements include customary terms and conditions for a syndicated facility of this nature, and the revolving tranches have two 12-month options available to management to extend the maturity date. As of June 30, 2022 and 2021, an aggregate principal amount of $2.4 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, was drawn under commercial paper programs. However, such programs are backstopped by committed bank syndicated loan facilities with maturities in April 2025 ($1.9 billion), and April 2027 ($1.9 billion), with an option to extend, under which we had $1.4 billion in unused capacity remaining as of June 30, 2022. 40 We expect long-term future funding needs to primarily relate to refinancing and servicing our outstanding financial liabilities maturing as outlined above and to finance our capital expenditure and payments for acquisitions that may be completed. We expect to continue to fund our long-term business needs on the same basis as in the past, i.e., partially through the cash flow provided by operating activities available to the business and management of the capital of the business, in particular through issuance of commercial paper and debt securities on a regular basis. We decide on discretionary growth capital expenditures and acquisitions individually based on, among other factors, the return on investment after related financing costs and the payback period of required upfront cash investments in light of our mid-term liquidity planning covering a period of four years post the current fiscal year. Our long-term access to liquidity depends on both our results of operations and on the availability of funding in financial markets. 41 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to retirement benefits, intangible assets, goodwill, and expected future performance of operations. Our estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following are critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. • the calculation of annual pension costs and related assets and liabilities; • valuation of intangible assets and goodwill; • calculation of deferred taxes and uncertain tax positions; and • valuation of assets and liabilities held for sale. Pension Costs Approximately 90% of our principal defined benefit plans are closed to new entrants and future accruals. The accounting for defined benefit pension plans requires us to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of the pension plans on our balance sheet. A substantial portion of our pension amounts relates to our defined benefit plans in the United States, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Net periodic pension cost recorded in fiscal year 2022 was $12 million, compared to pension cost of $15 million in fiscal year 2021 and $10 million in fiscal year 2020. We expect net periodic pension cost before the effect of income taxes for fiscal year 2023 to be approximately $9 million. For our sponsored plans, the relevant accounting guidance requires that management make certain assumptions relating to the long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates used to determine the present value of future obligations and expenses, salary inflation rates, mortality rates, and other assumptions. We believe that the accounting estimates related to our pension plans are critical accounting estimates because they are highly susceptible to change from period to period based on the performance of plan assets, actuarial valuations, market conditions, and contracted benefit changes. The selection of assumptions is based on historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of valuation, as well as independent studies of trends performed by our actuaries. However, actual results may differ substantially from the estimates that were based on the critical assumptions. The amount by which the fair value of plan assets differs from the projected benefit obligation of a pension plan must be recorded on the consolidated balance sheets as an asset, in the case of an overfunded plan, or as a liability, in the case of an underfunded plan. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise but are not recognized as components of pension cost are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income/(loss). Pension plan liabilities are revalued annually, or when an event occurs that requires remeasurement, based on updated assumptions and information about the individuals covered by the plan. Accumulated actuarial gains and losses in excess of a 10 percent corridor and the prior service cost are amortized on a straight-line basis from the date recognized over the average remaining service period of active participants or over the average life expectancy for plans with significant inactive participants. The service costs related to defined benefits are included in operating income. The other components of net benefit cost are presented in the consolidated statements of income separately from the service cost component and outside operating income. We review annually the discount rate used to calculate the present value of pension plan liabilities. The discount rate used at each measurement date is set based on a high-quality corporate bond yield curve, derived based on bond universe information sourced from reputable third-party indexes, data providers, and rating agencies. In countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds, we have used a government bond approach to set the discount rate. Additionally, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is derived for each benefit plan by considering the expected future long-term return assumption for each individual asset class. A single long-term return assumption is then derived for each plan based upon the plan's target asset allocation. 42 Pension Assumptions Sensitivity Analysis The following chart depicts the sensitivity of estimated fiscal year 2023 pension expense to incremental changes in the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on assets. Intangible Assets and Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, including intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but is instead tested annually or when events and circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. Our reporting units each contain goodwill that is assessed for potential impairment. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, which is defined as an operating segment, at the time of each acquisition based on the relative fair value of the reporting unit. We have six reporting units, of which five are included in our Flexibles Segment. The other reporting unit that is also a reportable segment is Rigid Packaging. Goodwill for our reporting units is reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of each year or whenever events and circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred during the year. When the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and estimated fair value of the reporting unit, adjusted for any tax benefits, limited to the amount of the carrying value of goodwill. In performing our impairment analysis, we may elect to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether a quantitative test is necessary. If we determine that a quantitative test is necessary, or elect to perform a quantitative test instead of the qualitative test, we derive an estimate of fair values for each of our reporting units using income approaches. The most significant assumptions used in the determination of the estimated fair value of the reporting units are revenue growth, projected operating income growth, terminal values, and discount rates. Our estimates associated with the goodwill impairment tests are considered critical due to the amount of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and the judgment required in determining fair value amounts, including projected future cash flows. Judgment is used in assessing whether goodwill should be tested more frequently for impairment than annually. Factors such as a significant decrease in expected net earnings, adverse equity market conditions, and other external events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russia-Ukraine conflict, may result in the need for more frequent assessments. Intangible assets consist primarily of purchased customer relationships, technology, trademarks, and software and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, which range from one to 20 years. We review these intangible assets for impairment as changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest that the remaining value is not recoverable. The test for impairment requires us to make estimates about fair value, most of which are based on projected future cash flows and discount rates. These estimates and projections require judgments as to future events, conditions, and amounts of future cash flows. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions We deal with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. The determination of uncertain tax positions is based on an evaluation of whether the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position taken or expected to be taken in the tax return will be sustained on tax audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The recognized tax benefits are measured as the largest benefit of having a more likely than not likelihood of being sustained upon settlement. Significant estimates are required in determining such uncertain tax positions and related income tax expense and benefit. Additionally, we are also required to assess the likelihood of recovering deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income which might result in the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, including operating loss, capital loss, and tax credit carryforwards if we do not reach 43 the more likely than not threshold based on all available evidence. Significant judgments and estimates, including expected future performance of operations and taxable earnings and the feasibility of tax planning strategies, are required in determining the need for and amount of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. If actual results differ from these estimates or there are future changes to tax laws or statutory tax rates, we may need to adjust valuation allowances or tax liabilities, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale Disposal groups held for sale are assessed for impairment by comparing their fair values less cost to sell to their carrying values. The fair values of disposal groups held for sale are estimated using accepted valuation techniques which include earnings multiples, discounted cash flows, and indicative bids. A number of significant estimates and assumptions are involved in the application of these techniques, including the forecasting of sales, expenses, and a variety of other factors. We consider historical experience, guidance received from third parties, and all other information available at the time the estimates are made to derive fair value. However, the fair value that is ultimately realized upon the divestiture of a business may significantly differ from the estimated fair value recognized in our consolidated financial statements, especially for disposal groups located within countries at war. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 3, "New Accounting Guidance" of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about new accounting pronouncements. 44