********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following factors, as well as factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in other filings by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently believe are not material could also affect our business operations and financial results. Strategic Risks Changes in Consumer Demand — Demand for our products could be affected by a variety of factors, including changes in economic environment and regulations. Sales of our products and services depend heavily on the volume of sales made by our customers to consumers. Alternative consumer preferences for products in the industries that we serve or the packaging formats in which such products are delivered, whether as a result of changes in cost, economic environments, regulatory developments (including end user taxes), convenience or health, environmental, and social concerns, and perceptions, such as pressure to reduce packaging waste and the use of petrochemical components, may result in a decline in the demand for certain of our products or the obsolescence of some of our existing products. Any new products we produce may fail to meet sales or margin expectations due to various factors, including our or our customers' inability to accurately predict customer demand, end user preferences or movements in industry standards, or to develop products that meet consumer demand in a timely and cost-effective manner. Changing preferences for products and packaging formats may result in increased demand for other products we produce. However, if changing preferences are not offset by demand for new or alternative products, changes in consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Key Customers and Customer Consolidation — The loss of key customers, a reduction in their production requirements or consolidation among key customers could have a significant adverse impact on our sales revenue and profitability. Relationships with our customers are fundamental to our success, particularly given the nature of the packaging industry and other supply choices available to customers. While we do not have a single customer accounting for more than 10% of our net sales, customer concentration can be more pronounced within certain businesses. Consequently, the loss of any of our key customers or any significant reduction in their production requirements, or an adverse change in the terms of our supply agreements with them, could reduce our sales revenue and net profit. In addition, geopolitical tensions, wars, and terrorism can impact local demand for our products. Although we have been largely successful in maintaining customer relationships in the past, there is no assurance that existing customer relationships will be renewed at existing volume, product mix, or price levels, or at all. Customers with operations subject to physical risks, including those caused by natural disasters and adverse weather conditions related to climate change, may relocate production to less affected areas, which could be beyond the range of Amcor's production sites. Supplying such relocated facilities may lead to additional costs. New regulations can also affect our relationships with customers. Any loss, change, or other adverse event related to our key customer relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Furthermore, in recent years, some of our customers have acquired companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our business with these customers. Such consolidation may be accompanied by pressure from customers for lower prices, reflecting the increase in the total volume of products purchased or the elimination of a price differential between the acquiring customer and the acquired company. While we have generally been successful in managing customer consolidations, increased pricing pressures from our customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Competition — We face significant competition in the industries and regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business. We operate in highly competitive geographies and end use areas, each with varying barriers to entry, industry structures, and competitive behavior. We regularly bid for new and continuing business in the industries and regions in which we operate, and we continually adapt to changes in consumer demand. While we cannot predict with certainty the changes that may impact our competitiveness, the main methods of competition in the general packaging industry include price, innovation, sustainability, service, and quality. 12 The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may have a significant impact on our operating results. Additionally, our competitors may develop or utilize disruptive technologies or other technological innovations that could increase their ability to compete for our current or potential customers. Our failure to adequately respond to the actions that established or potential competitors take could materially affect our ability to implement our plans and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Expanding Our Current Business — We may be unable to expand our current business effectively through organic growth, including product innovation, investments, or acquisitions. Our business strategy includes both organic expansion of our existing operations, particularly through efforts to strengthen and expand relationships with customers in emerging markets, product innovation (including to address changes in the industry or regulatory environments) and expansion through investments and acquisitions. However, we may not be able to execute our strategy effectively for reasons within and outside our control. Our ability to grow organically may be limited by, among other things, extensive saturation in the locations in which we operate or a change or reduction in our customers’ growth plans due to changing economic conditions, strategic priorities, or otherwise. For many of our businesses, organic growth depends on product innovation, new product development, and timely responses to changing consumer demands and preferences. Consequently, failure to develop new or improved products in response to changing consumer preferences in a timely manner may hinder our growth potential, impact our competitive position, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, we have pursued growth through acquisitions, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets in the right geographic regions and with the right participation strategy in the future, or to complete such acquisitions on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to identify acquisition targets that meet our investment criteria and close such transactions on acceptable terms, our potential for growth by way of acquisition may be restricted, which could have a material adverse effect on the achievement of our strategy and the resulting expected financial benefits. We also may face challenges in integrating acquisitions with our existing operations. These challenges could include difficulties in integrating or consolidating business processes and systems, as well as challenges in integrating business cultures, which may result in synergies from acquisitions not being fully realized or taking longer to realize than expected or incurring additional costs to do so. Further, in pursuing growth through acquisitions, we face additional risks common with an acquisition strategy, including failure to identify significant contingencies or legal liabilities in the due diligence process, diversion of management's attention from existing business, and interruptions to normal business operations resulting from the process of integrating operations. We have also invested in companies in which we do not exercise control. Our investment partners or other parties that hold the remaining ownership interests in companies that we do not control may not have interests that are aligned with our goals. We have incurred losses in our equity method investments in the past, and the recognition of our proportionate share of our investees' results in the future could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our equity method investments are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of our investment is not recoverable. If we determine that an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired, the resulting impairment charge could adversely affect our results of operations. We have recognized impairment losses in the past in connection with our investments and we may be required to do so again in the future. Operational Risks Global Economic Conditions — Challenging global economic conditions, have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our business operations and financial results. Demand for our products and services depends on consumer demand for our packaging products, including packaged food, beverages, healthcare, personal care, agribusiness, industrial, and other consumer goods. Geopolitical events, such as increased trade barriers or restrictions on global trade, political, financial, or social instability, wars, civil or social unrest, natural disasters, or health crises, could result in general economic downturns, such as a recession or economic slowdown, and could adversely affect our business operations and financial results. Recent global economic challenges, including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the Middle East conflict, increasing tensions between China and Taiwan, and relatively high inflation and interest rates, may continue to put pressure on our business. Current and future unrest in regions where we operate, and political developments, could have a material impact on our financial condition. 13 When challenging economic conditions exist, our customers may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases from us, and may also delay payments or fail to pay us altogether. For example, during the first half of fiscal year 2024, our net sales were impacted by volume declines primarily attributed to destocking and lower consumer demand. Suppliers may also have difficulties filling our orders and we may have difficulties getting our products to customers, which may affect our ability to meet customer demands and result in a loss of business. Weakened global economic conditions may also result in unfavorable changes in our product prices and product mix and lower profit margins. Although we take measures to mitigate the impact of inflation, including through pricing actions and productivity programs, if these actions are not effective, our cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, there could be a time lag between recognizing the benefit of our mitigating actions and the impact of inflation and there is no guarantee that our mitigating measures will fully offset the impacts of inflation. International Operations — Our international operations subject us to various risks that could adversely affect our business operations and financial results. We have operations throughout the world, including facilities in emerging markets. In fiscal year 2024, approximately 73% of our sales revenue came from developed markets and 27% came from emerging markets. We expect to continue to expand our operations in the future, including in the emerging markets. Managing global operations is complex, particularly due to substantial differences in the cultural, political, and regulatory environments of the countries where we operate. In addition, many countries where we have operations, including Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia, India, and Peru, have legal, regulatory, or political systems, that are dynamic and subject to change. The profitability of our operations may be adversely impacted by, among other things: • changes in applicable fiscal or regulatory regimes; • changes in, or difficulties in interpreting and complying with, local laws, sanctions, and regulations, including tax, labor, foreign investment, and foreign exchange control laws; • nullification, modification, or renegotiation of, or difficulties or delays in enforcing contracts with clients or joint venture partners that are subject to local law; • reversal of current political, judicial, or administrative policies encouraging foreign investment or foreign trade, or related to the use of local agents, representatives, or partners in relevant jurisdictions; • trade restrictions, sanctions, and quotas; • wars, acts of terrorism, social and ethnic unrest, and geopolitical events; • pandemics and other health crises impacting different regions of the world unequally; • difficulties associated with nationalization or expropriation of assets, or expatriating or repatriating cash generated or held abroad; and • changes in exchange rates and inflation, including hyperinflation. Furthermore, prolonged periods of economic, legal, regulatory, or political instability in the emerging markets where we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine has negatively impacted the global economy and led to various economic sanctions being imposed by the U.S., the European Union, the United Kingdom, and other countries against Russia. It is not possible to predict the broader or longer-term consequences of this conflict. Continued escalation of geopolitical tensions, including the conflict in the Middle East and tensions between China and Taiwan, could result in the loss of property, supply chain disruptions, significant inflationary pressure on raw material prices and other resources (such as energy and natural gas), fluctuations in our customers’ buying patterns given regional shortages of food ingredients and other factors, credit and capital market disruption which could impact our ability to obtain financing, increase in interest rates, and adverse foreign exchange impacts. These broader consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. Our international operations involve limited sales to entities located in countries subject to economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, the U.S. Department of State, and the U.S. Department of Commerce and other applicable national and supranational organizations (collectively, "Sanctions"). We also operate in certain countries that are occasionally subject to Sanctions, which require us to maintain internal processes and control procedures. Failure to do so could result in breach by our employees of various laws and regulations, including those relating to money laundering, corruption, export control, fraud, bribery, insider trading, antitrust, competition, and economic sanctions, whether due to a lack of integrity or awareness or otherwise. Any such breach could result in sanctions (including fines and penalties) and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and reputation. 14 Raw Materials — Price fluctuations or shortages in the availability of raw materials, energy, and other inputs could adversely affect our business. As a manufacturer of packaging products, our sales and profitability are dependent on the availability and cost of raw materials, labor, and other inputs, including energy. All of the raw materials we use are purchased from third parties, and our primary inputs include polymer resins and films, paper, inks, solvents, adhesives, aluminum, and chemicals. Prices for these raw materials are subject to substantial fluctuations that are beyond our control due to factors such as changing economic conditions (including inflation), currency and commodity price fluctuations, resource availability and other supply chain challenges, transportation costs, geopolitical risks (including the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine, and in the Middle East), pandemics and other health crises, an increase in the demand for products manufactured from recycled materials, weather conditions and natural disasters, environmental regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity and deforestation, human rights due diligence regulations, and other factors impacting supply and demand pressures. For example, energy prices have fluctuated significantly in the past few years and may fluctuate in the future which could negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, changes in international trade policies in the countries in which we operate could materially impact the cost and supply of raw materials as duties are assessed on raw materials used in our production process and the global supply of key raw materials is disrupted. For example, in fiscal year 2024, the U.S. government assessed retroactive duties on a small number of our aluminum imports into the U.S. where it was determined that the rollstock originated from China. The introduction of new duties, tariffs, quotas, or other similar trade restrictions may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. While we have largely been able to successfully manage through any supply disruptions and related price volatility in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully navigate any future disruptions. Increases in costs and disruptions in supply can have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We seek to mitigate these risks through various strategies, including entering into contracts with certain customers that permit price adjustments to reflect increased raw material and other costs or by otherwise seeking to increase our prices to offset increases in raw material and other costs and seeking alternative sources of supply for key raw materials. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to anticipate or mitigate commodity and input price movements or supply disruptions. In addition, there may be delays in adjusting prices to correspond with underlying raw material costs and corresponding impacts on our working capital and level of indebtedness and any failure to anticipate or mitigate against such movements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Commercial Risks — We are subject to production, supply, and other commercial risks, including counterparty credit risks, which may be exacerbated in times of economic volatility. We face a number of commercial risks, including (i) operational disruption, such as mechanical or technological failures, disruptions due to natural disasters, geopolitical conflicts, or health crises, each of which could lead to production loss and/or increased costs, (ii) shortages in manufacturing inputs due to the loss of key suppliers or their inability to supply inputs, and (iii) risks associated with development projects (such as cost overruns and delays). Supply or workforce shortages, fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping capacity, or other disruptions in our supply chain, including sourcing materials from a single supplier or those that may occur related to wars, geopolitical tensions, natural disasters, health crises, or new regulations, could affect our ability to obtain timely delivery of raw materials, equipment, and other supplies, and in turn, adversely impact our ability to supply products to our customers. Additionally, severe weather events and other adverse effects of climate change could have negative effects on agricultural productivity, leading customers to face both availability and price challenges with agricultural commodities, which may impact the demand for our products. For example, in fiscal year 2023, adverse weather conditions in the United States reduced cattle herds, leading to a rise in meat prices, which ultimately contributed to lower meat packaging sales volumes which continued in the first half of fiscal year 2024. The potential magnitude of these commercial risks on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be material. Additionally, the insolvency of, or contractual default by, any of our customers, suppliers, and financial institutions, such as banks and insurance providers, may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Such risks are exacerbated in times of economic volatility, either globally or in the geographies and industries in which our customers, suppliers, or financial institutions operate. If a counterparty defaults on its payment obligation to us, we may be unable to collect the amounts owed, and some or all of these outstanding amounts may need to be written off. If a counterparty becomes insolvent or is otherwise unable to meet its obligations in connection with a particular project, we may need to find a 15 replacement to fulfill that party’s obligations or, alternatively, fulfill those obligations ourselves, which may be more expensive. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, which may result in a competitive disadvantage. Health Crises — Our business and operations may be adversely affected by pandemics, epidemics, or other disease outbreaks. Our business and financial results may be negatively impacted by outbreaks of contagious diseases. Health crises have resulted in the past and could in the future result in supply chain disruptions due to the temporary closure of our facilities, the facilities of our suppliers, or other suppliers in our supply chain, the shut-down of customers’ operations, volatility in raw material costs, and labor shortages and may have broader global economic or geopolitical implications. In addition, any major animal disease outbreak could adversely impact the demand for our packaging. While we have established protocols to manage these potential impacts, the extent to which health crises may impact our business and operations is unknown and the effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be material. Attracting, Motivating, and Retaining Skilled Workforce and Managing Key Transitions — If we are unable to attract, motivate, and retain our global executive management team and our other skilled workforce, and manage key transitions, we may be adversely affected. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify, attract, motivate, develop, and retain skilled and diverse personnel in our global executive management team and our operations. We focus on our talent acquisition processes, as well as our onboarding and talent and leadership programs, to ensure that our key new hires and skilled personnel’s efficiency and effectiveness align with Amcor’s values and ways of working. In March 2024, we announced the retirement of our Chief Executive Officer Ron Delia and the appointment of Peter Konieczny as our Interim Chief Executive Officer. Our Board of Directors has launched a search process for a permanent Chief Executive Officer. Any failure to successfully transition key roles could impact our ability to execute on our strategic plans, make it difficult to meet our performance objectives, and be disruptive to our business. In addition, there is no assurance that our Board of Directors will be successful in finding a permanent Chief Executive Officer in a timely manner which may create additional uncertainty among our employees, customers, suppliers, lenders, and investors, and which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and share price. We are also impacted by regional labor shortages, inflationary pressures on wages, a competitive labor market, changing demographics, and changing work-life balance expectations. While we have been successful to date in responding to regional labor shortages and maintaining plans for continuity of succession, there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage future labor shortages or recruit, develop, assimilate, motivate, and retain employees in the future who actively promote and meet the standards of our culture. Labor Disputes — Our business could be adversely affected by labor disputes and an inability to renew collective bargaining agreements at acceptable terms. Approximately 43% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although we have not experienced any significant labor disputes in recent years, we have experienced isolated work stoppages from time to time. We may experience labor disputes in the future, including protests and strikes, which could disrupt our business operations and have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may also be unable to renegotiate collective bargaining agreements at acceptable terms. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid. Although we consider our relations with our employees to be good, we may be unable to maintain a satisfactory working relationship with our employees in the future. We may also be adversely affected by strikes and other labor disputes by the employees of our suppliers, customers, and other parties. Physical Impacts of Climate Change - Our business is subject to physical risks related to climate change which could negatively impact our business operations and financial results. Climate change may have a progressively adverse impact on our business and those of our customers, suppliers, and partners. Many of the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct business may be affected by natural disasters, including snowstorms, extreme heat, hurricanes, flooding, forest fires, deforestation, loss of biodiversity, earthquakes, and drought. Such events may have a physical impact on our facilities, workforce, inventory, suppliers, and equipment and any unplanned downtime at any of our facilities could result in unabsorbed costs that could negatively impact 16 our results of operations. Additionally, climate change may result in higher insurance premiums or the inability to insure certain risks. Longer-term climate change patterns could significantly alter supplier availability or customer demand, which is especially true for suppliers and customers who rely on supply chains routinely impacted by weather. For example, agricultural supply chains could be impacted by increased levels of drought or flooding and customers in coastal regions could be impacted by frequent flooding. Information Technology and Cybersecurity Risks Cybersecurity Risk — The disruption of our operations or risk of loss of our sensitive business information could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Increased cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, ransomware, unauthorized access attempts, phishing, hacking, and other types of attacks pose a risk to the security and availability of our information technology systems, including those provided by third parties. Emerging artificial intelligence technologies may intensify these cybersecurity risks. In addition to traditional attacks, we face threats from sophisticated nation-state and nation-state-supported actors who engage in attacks, including advanced persistent threat intrusions. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience actual and attempted cyber-attacks on our information technology systems by threat parties of all types (including nation-states, criminal enterprises, individuals, or advanced persistent threat groups). Geopolitical turmoil, including as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, evolution, scope, and sophistication of cyber-attacks, accessibility of our data by third parties through interconnected networks, and an increase in work-from-home arrangements heighten the risk of cyber-attacks. We have operational safeguards in place to detect and prevent cyber-attacks, such as employee training, monitoring of our networks and systems, ensuring strong data protection standards, and maintaining and upgrading security systems but it is virtually impossible to entirely eliminate this risk. To date, we have not experienced any significant impacts. However, our safeguards may not always be able to prevent a cyber-attack from impacting our systems and we may not be able to successfully and timely execute our business recovery protocol, which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Further, as cybersecurity threats continue to evolve, we may be required to make significant investments to modify or enhance our systems to improve our ability to respond and recover. In addition, our customers, suppliers, and third-party service providers are susceptible to cyber-attacks and disruption to their information technology systems, which could result in reduced demand for our products or limit our ability to supply our products. We also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer controls. Data privacy laws and regulations continue to evolve and impose more complex and stringent requirements especially in the U.S., Europe, and China, which increases the complexity of our processes and associated costs. Despite our efforts to protect such information and to comply with privacy and data protection laws and regulations, our facilities and systems and those of our customers, suppliers, and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber-attacks, misplaced or lost data, and programming and/or user errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential, or personal data or information, the improper use of our systems and networks, and the manipulation and destruction of data. Information system damages, disruptions, shutdowns, or compromises could result in production downtimes and operational disruptions, transaction errors, loss of customers and business opportunities, violation of privacy laws and legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, negative publicity resulting in reputational damage, reimbursement or compensatory payments, and other costs, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, which affect may be material and result in a competitive disadvantage. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, our systems, networks, products, and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. Information Technology — A failure or disruption in our information technology systems could disrupt our operations, compromise customer, employee, supplier, and other data, and could negatively affect our business. We rely on the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our information technology and control systems to securely manage operations and various business functions, and on various technologies to process, store, and report information about our business, and to interact with customers, suppliers, and employees around the world. In addition, our information systems rely on internal information technology systems and third-party systems, including cloud solutions, which require different security measures. These measures cover technical changes to our network security, organization, and governance changes as well as alignment of third-party suppliers on market standards. As with all information technology systems, our systems may be susceptible to damage, disruption, information loss, or shutdown due to a variety of factors including power outages, failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, hardware failures, cyber-attacks (e.g., phishing, ransomware, computer viruses), natural disasters, telecommunications failures, user errors, unauthorized access, and malicious or accidental 17 destruction, or catastrophic events. Infrastructure changes, including migration to new data centers or cloud solutions, updates or patches to our core software infrastructure, and changes in our data processing pipelines could lead to significant business disruptions due to human error in our deployment processes or third-party software errors. While we have established and regularly test our business disaster recovery plan, there is no guarantee that it will resolve issues resulting from those disruptions in a timely manner. We may suffer material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Financial Risks Indebtedness and Credit Rating — A significant increase in our indebtedness or a downgrade in our credit rating could reduce our operating flexibility, increase our borrowing costs, and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of June 30, 2024, we had $6.7 billion of debt outstanding, including borrowings of $1.4 billion under revolving credit facilities in an aggregate principal amount of $3.8 billion, and we are not restricted in incurring, and may incur, additional indebtedness in the future. Increased indebtedness could have significant consequences for our business and any investment in our securities, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; requiring more of our cash flows from operations to be used to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness, thus limiting our cash flows available to fund our operations, capital expenditures and other future business opportunities or the return of cash to our shareholders. Our ability to pay interest and repay the principal of our indebtedness is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flows, which is dependent, in part, on prevailing economic and competitive conditions and certain legislative, regulatory, and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to maintain sufficient cash flows from operations to meet our debt commitments, and related covenants, our financial condition and results of operations are likely to be materially adversely impacted. Additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. For example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. We use cash provided by operations, commercial paper issuances, bank term loans, committed and uncommitted revolving credit facilities, asset divestitures, debt issuances, and equity issuances to meet our funding needs. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on many factors, including our financial results, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the global economy. Any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt. Actions taken by the rating agencies include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or assigning a negative outlook, as occurred in May 2024 when one rating agency lowered its outlook from “stable” to “negative”, for a possible future downgrade. If rating agencies downgrade our credit rating, place us on a watch list, or if there are adverse market conditions, including disruptions in the commercial paper market, the impacts could include reduced access to commercial paper, credit, and capital markets, an increase in the cost of our borrowings or the fees associated with our bank credit facilities, or an increase in the credit spread incurred when issuing debt in the capital markets. While we have not experienced a significant financial impact from the negative outlook assigned by one credit rating agency, there is no assurance it will not have a significant impact in the future. Our desire to maintain the Company's investment grade rating may also cause us to take certain actions designed to improve our cash flow, including sale of assets, suspension or reduction of our dividend, or share buybacks, and reductions in capital expenditures and working capital. Refer to Item 7. "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Liquidity and Capital Resources," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our credit rating profile. In addition, a significant number of our operating subsidiaries are not guarantors of our indebtedness. In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves, or otherwise winds up, the assets of such subsidiary will be used to satisfy the claims of its creditors. The non-guarantor subsidiaries have no direct obligations in respect of our indebtedness, and therefore, a direct claim against any non-guarantor subsidiary and any claims to enforce payment on our indebtedness will be structurally subordinated to all of the claims of the creditors of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. Interest Rates — Rising interest rates increase our borrowing costs on our variable rate indebtedness and could have other negative impacts. As of June 30, 2024, approximately 30% of our indebtedness was subject to variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on our variable rate indebtedness increase even when the amount borrowed remains the same. In order to dampen inflation, central bank s around the world, including the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank, have continued to maintain higher interest rates in fiscal year 2024 and this directly impacted and will continue to impact the amount of interest we pay on our variable rate obligations. Furthermore, sustained or continued increases in interest 18 rates could increase the costs of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing fixed rate debt as well as variable rate indebtedness, negatively impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flow. We manage exposure to interest rates by maintaining a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, monitoring global interest rates, and, where appropriate, entering into various derivative instruments. However, if our derivative instruments are not effective in mitigating our interest rate risk, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, continued increases in interest rates could reduce the attractiveness of cash management programs we use, such as customer and supply chain finance programs, which could negatively impact our cash and working capital and increase our borrowings. Refer to Note 13, "Debt," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our variable rate borrowings. Also refer to "Item 7A. - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," including interest rate risk, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Exchange Rates — We are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk, both transactional and translational, which may negatively affect our reported cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. Transactional foreign exchange exposures are associated with transactions in currencies other than the entity's functional currency. Translational foreign exchange exposures result from exchange rate fluctuations in the conversion of entity functional currencies to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, and may affect the reported value of our assets and liabilities and our income and expenses. In particular, our translational exposure may be impacted by movements in the exchange rate between the Euro, the Brazilian Real, the Swiss Franc, the Chinese Yuan, and the United Kingdom Pound Sterling against the U.S. dollar. Refer to "Item 7A. - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," including foreign exchange risk, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Exchange rates between transactional currencies may change rapidly due to a variety of factors. In addition, we have recognized foreign exchange losses related to the currency devaluation in Argentina and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. For example, in December 2023, Argentina's government devalued the Argentine peso relative to the U.S. dollar by approximately 55% following the election of a new President which adversely impacted the results and operations of our businesses in Argentina. Refer to Note 2, "Significant Accounting Policies," of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding highly inflationary accounting. To the extent currency devaluation occurs across our business, we are likely to experience a lag in the timing to pass through U.S. dollar-denominated input costs across our business, which would adversely impact our margins and profitability. As such, we may be exposed to future exchange rate fluctuations, and such fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our reported cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. Our Board of Directors has approved a hedging policy to limit and manage the risk of such foreign exchange fluctuations, however, if our hedges are not effective in mitigating our foreign currency risks, if we are under-hedged, or if a hedge provider defaults on their obligations under hedging arrangements, it could have a material adverse impact on our reported cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets — A significant write-down of goodwill and/or other intangible assets would have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial position. As of June 30, 2024, we had $6.7 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. We review our goodwill balance for impairment at least once a year and whenever events or a change in circumstances indicate that an impairment may have occurred using the appropriate business valuation methods in accordance with current accounting standards. Future changes in the cost of capital, market multiples, market growth, expected cash flows, or other factors may cause our goodwill and/or other intangible assets to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge in our results of operations to reduce the value of these assets to their fair value. Furthermore, if we make changes to our business strategy or if external conditions adversely affect our business operations, we could be required to record an impairment charge for goodwill and/or intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have identified the valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets as a critical accounting estimate. Refer to "Item 7. - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Internal Controls — If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results which may adversely affect investor confidence and adversely impact our stock price. 19 We have been subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("SOX") since fiscal year 2020. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and while they meet the standards set forth in SOX, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, as any controls or procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance against misstatement. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties, or litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, and we may be required to restate previously published financial information, which could lead to a material adverse effect on our operations, loss of investor confidence, and a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. Insurance — Our insurance policies, including our use of a captive insurance company, may not provide adequate protection against all of the risks we face. We seek protection from a number of our key operational risk exposures through the purchase of insurance. A significant portion of our insurance is placed in the insurance market with third-party reinsurers. Our policies with such third-party reinsurers cover a variety of risk exposures, including property damage and business interruption. Although we believe the coverage provided by such policies is consistent with industry practice, the insurance coverage does not insure us against all risks in our operations or all claims we may receive and there is no guarantee that any claims made under such policies will ultimately be paid or that we will be able to maintain such insurance at acceptable premium cost levels in the future. Additionally, we retain a portion of our insurable risk through a captive insurance company, Amcor Insurances Pte. Ltd., which is located in Singapore. Our captive insurance company collects annual premiums from our business groups and assumes specific risks relating to various risk exposures, including property damage. The captive insurance company may be required to make payments for insurance claims that exceed the captive's reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Legal and Compliance Risks Intellectual Property — Our inability to defend our intellectual property rights or intellectual property infringement claims against us could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete effectively. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to protect and maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. We own a number of patents on our products, aspects of our products, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing, and we own, or have licenses to use, the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, and other unpatented proprietary technology. If we are unable to detect the infringement of our intellectual property or to enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may suffer. The unauthorized use of our intellectual property by someone else could reduce certain of our competitive advantages, cause us to lose sales, or otherwise harm our business. We attempt to protect and restrict access to our intellectual property and proprietary information by relying on the patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as non-disclosure agreements. However, it may be possible for a third-party to obtain our information without authorization, independently develop similar technologies, or breach a non-disclosure agreement entered into with us. Our pending patent applications and our pending trademark registration applications may not be allowed, or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents or trademarks. Our competitors might avoid infringement by designing around our intellectual property rights or by developing non-infringing competing technologies. In addition, our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. Furthermore, many of the countries in which we operate, particularly emerging markets, do not have intellectual property laws that protect proprietary rights as fully as the laws of more developed jurisdictions, such as the United States and the European Union. The costs associated with protecting our intellectual property rights could also adversely impact our business. Similarly, while we have not received any significant claims from third parties suggesting that we may be infringing, directly or indirectly, on their intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that we will not receive such claims in the future. If we were held liable for a claim of infringement, we could be required to pay damages, obtain licenses, or cease making, using or selling certain products or technologies. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and divert the attention of management, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary 20 licenses on reasonable terms or at all. Failure to protect our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Litigation — Litigation, including product liability claims and litigation related to Environmental, Social and Governance ("ESG") impacts, or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. We are, and in the future will likely become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, including product liability claims, which may lead to financial or reputational damages. We may be exposed to litigation related to the environmental, health, and human rights impacts of our operations, products, and sourcing activities, as well as our external communications related to such topics. Given our global footprint, we are exposed to uncertainty regarding the regulatory environment. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory actions and inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is typically uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes of, or resolutions to, these proceedings could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments. ESG Practices — Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from investors, customers, suppliers, and governments with respect to our ESG practices and commitments may impose additional costs on us or expose us to additional risks. There is increased scrutiny from investors, customers, suppliers, governments, and other stakeholders on corporate ESG practices. Our commitment to sustainability and ESG practices remains at the core of our business, and we have established related goals and targ ets. For example, we have made a public commitment to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and have set interim emissions targets which have been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative ("SBTi"). Howe ver, our ESG practices may not meet the standards of all of our stakeholders, and advocacy groups may campaign for further changes. Many of our large, global customers are also committing to long-term targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within their supply chains. If we are unable to support our customers in achieving these reductions, customers may seek out competitors who are better able to support such reductions. A failure, or perceived failure, to respond to expectations of all parties, including with meeting our own climate-related and other ESG target ambitions, could cause harm to our business and reputation and have a negative impact on the trading price of our common stock. Moreover, not all of our competitors establish, or will be legally required to establish, climate or other ESG sustainability targets and goals at levels comparable to ours, which could result in competitors having lower supply chain, operating or compliance costs as well as  reduced reputational and legal risks associated with not meeting such goals. ESG Regulations — Changing ESG government regulations , including climate-related rules, may adversely affect our company. Numerous ESG-related legislative and regulatory initiatives, including those related to our products, operations, and sourcing activities, have been passed and are likely to continue to be introduced in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. These new ESG-related regulations are evolving rapidly, and the regulations being enacted are often not harmonized across the jurisdictions in which we operate, increasing the complexity and cost of compliance and exposing us to increased legal risks associated with compliance. Our failure to comply with ESG regulatory reporting requirements could result in fines, loss of reputation, and other negative impacts which could be material and the cost of compliance may negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, increased regulation of emissions linked to climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions and other climate-related regulations, could potentially increase the cost of our operations due to increased costs of compliance (which may not be recoverable through adjustment of prices), increased cost of fossil fuel-based inputs and increased cost of energy intensive raw material inputs. We could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. However, any such changes are uncertain, and we cannot predict the amount of additional capital expenses or operating expenses that would be necessary for compliance. Increased environmental legislation or regulation, including regulations related to extended producer responsibility ("EPR"), could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw material costs, increased energy and freight costs, new taxes on packaging products which could reduce demand for our products, and result in increased litigation. It is possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. Government bans of, or restrictions on, certain materials or packaging formats may close off markets to Amcor's business. For example, governmental authorities in the U.S., Europe and in other countries have become increasingly focused on the contamination of soil, air, and water exacerbated by the use of non-degradable chemicals, including per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ("PFAS"). Various U.S. states have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, laws to restrict the use of PFAS in various applications, including in 21 packaging materials. While we believe we are in compliance with existing regulations, the cost of compliance in the future to modify our products may be significant and adversely impact our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Increased social legislation or regulation, including requirements related to human rights due diligence and modern slavery reporting, could result in increased costs of compliance resulting from enhanced efforts to assess and remediate potential human rights risk across our global operations and supply chain. Gaps in our ability to identify potential human rights violations could lead to negative publicity or loss of business. We are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products. Plastic bans or mandates to reduce plastic use may require shifts to more costly alternative materials or additional investment in the redesign of existing products and these costs might not be able to be passed on to our customers. Mandates to use certain types of materials, such as post-consumer recycled ("PCR") content, may lead to supply shortages and higher prices for those materials as current recycling rates may be insufficient to meet increased demand for PCR within and beyond the packaging industry. Additionally, a sizable portion of our business comes from healthcare packaging and food and beverage packaging, both highly regulated markets. Therefore, we are also subject to certain local and international standards related to such products. Compliance with these laws and regulations can require a significant expenditure of financial and employee resources. A failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could adversely affect our reputation, our results of operations or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines, and civil and criminal liability. Operational EHS Risks — We are subject to costs and liabilities related to environment, health and safety ("EHS") laws and regulations, as well as changes in the global climate, that could adversely affect our business. We are required to comply with EHS laws, rules, and regulations in each of the countries in which we operate and do business. Federal, state, provincial, and local laws and requirements pertaining to workplace health and safety conditions are significant factors in our business to ensure our people at all locations are able to go home safely every day. Changes to these laws and requirements may result in additional costs and actions across the affected country and/or region. Various government agencies may promulgate new or modified legislation and implement special emphasis programs and enforcement actions that could impact specific Amcor operations covered by the respective programs. Federal, state, provincial, foreign, and local environmental requirements relating to air, soil, and water quality, handling, discharge, storage, and disposal of a variety of substances, are also significant factors in our business, and changes to such requirements generally result in an increase to our costs of operations. We may be found to have environmental liability for the costs of remediating soil or water that is, or was, contaminated by us or a third-party at various facilities we own, used, or operate (including facilities that may be acquired by us in the future). For instance, an increase in legislation with respect to litter related to plastic packaging or related recycling programs may cause legislators in some countries and regions in which our products are sold to consider banning or limiting certain packaging formats or materials or applying taxes or fees on some types of our products. Legal proceedings may result in the imposition of fines or penalties, as well as mandated remediation programs, that require substantial, and in some instances, unplanned capital expenditures. We have incurred in the past and may incur in the future, fines, penalties, and legal costs relating to environmental matters, and costs relating to the damage of natural resources, lost property values, and toxic tort claims. Provisions are raised when it is considered probable that we have some liability, and the amount can be reasonably estimated. However, because the extent of potential environmental damage and the extent of our liability for such damage, is usually difficult to assess and may only be ascertained over a long period of time, our actual liability in such cases may end up being substantially higher than the currently provisioned amount. Accordingly, additional charges could be incurred that would have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position, which may be material. Tax Law Changes — Changes in tax laws or changes in our geographic mix of earnings could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to income and other taxes in the many jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws and regulations are complex and the determination of our global provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. We are subject to routine examinations of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax. Our future income taxes could also be negatively impacted by our mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate being different than anticipated given differences in statutory tax rates in the countries in which we operate. In addition, we may be adversely impacted by certain tax policy efforts, including any tax law 22 changes resulting from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") and the G20's inclusive framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS"), which has proposed a 15% global minimum tax applied on a country-by-country basis (the "Pillar Two rule"), and many countries (including countries in which we operate) have enacted or begun the process of enacting laws adopting the Pillar Two rule. The first component of the Pillar Two rule applies to us from July 1, 2024. While we do not currently expect the Pillar Two rule to have a material impact on our effective tax rate, our analysis is ongoing as the OECD continues to release guidance and as countries begin implementing legislation. Future developments could change our current assessment, and it is possible that the Pillar Two rule could adversely impact our tax rate and subsequent tax expense. Risks Relating to Being a Jersey, Channel Islands Company Listing Ordinary Shares Our ordinary shares are issued under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, which may not provide the level of legal certainty and transparency afforded by incorporation in a U.S. jurisdiction and which differ in some respects to the laws applicable to U.S. corporations. We are organized under the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, a British crown dependency that is an island located off the coast of Normandy, France. Jersey is not a member of the European Union. Jersey, Channel Islands legislation regarding companies is largely based on English corporate law principles. The rights of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by Jersey law, including the Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, and by the Amcor Articles of Association, as may be amended from time to time. These rights differ in some respects from the rights of other shareholders in corporations incorporated in the United States. Further, there can be no assurance that the laws of Jersey, Channel Islands, will not change in the future or that they will serve to protect investors in a similar fashion afforded under corporate law principles in the U.S., which could adversely affect the rights of investors. U.S. shareholders may not be able to enforce civil liabilities against us. A significant portion of our assets is located outside of the United States and several of our directors and officers are citizens or residents of jurisdictions outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to successfully serve a claim within the United States upon those non-U.S. directors and officers, or to enforce judgments realized in the United States. Judgments of U.S. courts may not be directly enforceable outside of the U.S. and the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts outside of the U.S., including those in Australia and Jersey, may be subject to limitations. Investors may also have difficulties pursuing an original action brought in a court in a jurisdiction outside the U.S., including Australia and Jersey, for liabilities under the securities laws of the U.S. Additionally, our Articles of Association provide that while the Royal Court of Jersey will have non-exclusive jurisdiction over actions brought against us, the Royal Court of Jersey will be the sole and exclusive forum for derivative shareholder actions, actions for breach of fiduciary duty by our directors and officers, actions arising out of Companies (Jersey) Law 1991, as amended, or actions asserting a claim against our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The exclusive forum provision would not prevent derivative shareholder actions based on claims arising under U.S. federal securities laws from being raised in a U.S. court and would not prevent a U.S. court from asserting jurisdiction over such claims. However, there is uncertainty whether a U.S. or Jersey court would enforce the exclusive forum provision for actions claiming breach of fiduciary duty and other claims. 23

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following is a discussion and analysis of changes in the results of operations for fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. A discussion and analysis regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2023, compared to fiscal year 2022 that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be found in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2023, filed with the SEC on August 17, 2023 and incorporated by reference. Two Year Review of Results 28 Overview Amcor is a global leader in developing and producing responsible packaging solutions across a variety of materials for food, beverage, pharmaceutical, medical, home and personal-care, and other products. We work with leading companies around the world to protect products, differentiate brands, and improve supply chains. We offer a range of innovative, differentiating flexible and rigid packaging, specialty cartons, closures and services. We are focused on making packaging that is increasingly recyclable, reusable, lighter weight, and made using an increasing amount of recycled content. In fiscal year 2024, 41,000 Amcor people generated $13.6 billion in annual sales from operations that span 212 locations in 40 countries. Significant Developments Affecting the Periods Presented Economic and Market Conditions After experiencing more challenging market conditions in calendar year 2023 which impacted both fiscal year 2023 and fiscal year 2024 with softer consumer and customer demand and increased destocking, customer volume trajectory sequentially improved in the second half of fiscal year 2024 with a return to volume growth in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024. The improvement in the second half of fiscal year 2024 is attributed primarily to the abatement of destocking across many end markets and higher customer demand in parts of our business. While we continue to be impacted by softer consumer demand and customer order volatility in certain markets, and higher inflation in certain areas, such as labor costs, we have flexed our cost base to adjust to market conditions. Higher inflation, especially in Europe and the United States over the last two fiscal years, has led central banks to rapidly raise interest rates to dampen inflation which has resulted in higher interest expense on our variable rate debt, particularly on U.S. dollar and Euro denominated debt. The underlying causes for the market volatility experienced can be attributed to a variety of factors, such as geopolitical tension and conflicts, higher inflation in many economies impacting consumption and consumer demand, and customer destocking following a period of supply chain constraints. In this context, we have remained focused on taking price and cost actions to offset inflation, aligning our cost base with market dynamics, and managing working capital. Russia-Ukraine Conflict / 2023 Restructuring Plan Russia's invasion of Ukraine that began in February 2022 continues as of the date of the filing of this annual report. In advance of the invasion, we proactively suspended operations at our small manufacturing site in Ukraine. We also operated three manufacturing facilities in Russia ("Russian business") until their sale on December 23, 2022, for net cash proceeds of $365 million. In addition, we repatriated approximately $65 million in cash held in Russia as part of the transaction. We recorded a pre-tax net gain on sale of $215 million. The carrying value of the Russian business had previously been impaired by $90 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2022. On February 7, 2023, we announced that we expect to invest $110 million to $130 million of the sale proceeds from the Russian business in various cost savings initiatives to partly offset divested earnings from the Russian business (the "2023 Restructuring Plan" or the "Plan"). We expect total Plan cash and non-cash net expenses to total approximately $220 million, of which approximately $130 million is expected to result in net cash expenditures. Of the remaining cash received from the sale of the Russian business, we allocated $100 million to repurchase shares and the remainder was used to reduce debt. From the initiation of the Plan through June 30, 2024, we have incurred $82 million in employee related expenses, $31 million in fixed asset related expenses, $47 million in other restructuring expenses, and $21 million in restructuring related expenses. To date, the Plan has resulted in approximately $70 million of net cash outflows. Management initiated other restructuring actions in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022 to help mitigate the impact of the Russian sale. Management expects to realize an annualized pre-tax benefit of approximately $50 million from structural cost reduction actions taken as a result of all Russia related restructuring by the end of fiscal year 2025. For further information, refer to Note 4, "Restructuring, Impairment, and Other Related Activities, Net," and Note 6, "Restructuring" of "Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." 29 Highly Inflationary Accounting We have subsidiaries in Argentina that historically had a functional currency of the Argentine Peso. As of June 30, 2018, the Argentine economy was designated as highly inflationary for accounting purposes. Accordingly, beginning July 1, 2018, we began reporting the financial results of our Argentine subsidiaries with a functional currency of the Argentine Peso at the functional currency of the parent, which is the U.S. dollar. Following the governmental election in the second quarter of fiscal year 2024, Argentina devalued the Argentine Peso by approximately 55% against the U.S. dollar and the Argentine peso has since been relatively stable against the U.S. dollar. Highly inflationary accounting resulted in a negative impact of $53 million and $24 million in foreign currency transaction losses that were reflected in the consolidated statements of income for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2024, and 2023, respectively. Our operations in Argentina represented approximately 2% of our consolidated net sales and annual adjusted earnings before interest and tax in the last two fiscal years. 30 Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations Net sales decreased by $1,054 million, or 7%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. Excluding the positive currency impacts of $171 million, the negative impacts from the pass-through of lower raw material costs of $220 million, and the negative impact from the disposed Russian business of $156 million, the remaining decrease in net sales for fiscal year 2024 was $849 million, or 6%, reflecting 5% lower sales volumes and an unfavorable price/mix impact of 1%. Net income attributable to Amcor plc decreased by $318 million, or 30%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. This is mainly due to the non-recurrence of the pre-tax net gain of $215 million on disposal of the Russian business in fiscal year 2023, a decrease in other income/(expenses), net of $61 million, primarily from the adverse impact on monetary balances from highly inflationary accounting in Argentina, and higher net interest expense of $51 million, offset by a decrease in income tax expense of $30 million. Diluted earnings per share ("Diluted EPS") decreased by $0.200, or 28%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023, with the net income attributable to ordinary shareholders of Amcor plc decreasing by 30% due to the above items and the diluted weighted-average number of shares outstanding decreasing by 2% in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. The decrease in the diluted weighted-average number of shares outstanding was largely due to the repurchase of shares under previously announced share buyback programs. Segment Results of Operations Flexibles Segment Net sales decreased by $822 million, or 7%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. Excluding the positive currency impacts of $141 million, the negative impacts from the pass-through of lower raw material costs of approximately $180 million, and the negative impact from the disposed Russian business of $156 million, the remaining variation in net sales for fiscal year 2024 was a decrease of approximately $625 million, or 6%. This stems from unfavorable sales volumes of 4%, mainly reflecting lower market and customer demand and destocking most notably within the first half of the year, and unfavorable price/mix impact of 2%. Adjusted earnings before interest and tax ("Adjusted EBIT") decreased by $34 million, or 2% in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. Excluding positive currency impacts of $15 million and the negative net impact from the disposed Russian business of $50 million, the remaining variation in Adjusted EBIT for fiscal year 2024 was an increase of $1 million, reflecting the net positive effect of 7% from favorable operating cost performance more than offsetting unfavorable volumes, but largely offset by net negative price/mix of 7%. 31 Rigid Packaging Segment Net sales decreased by $232 million, or 7%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. Excluding the positive currency impacts of $30 million and the negative impact from the pass-through of lower raw material costs of approximately $40 million, the remaining variation in net sales for fiscal year 2024 was a decrease of approximately $225 million, or 6%, reflecting unfavorable volumes of 8%, partly offset by price/mix benefits of approximately 2%. Adjusted EBIT decreased by $6 million, or 2%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. Excluding the positive currency impacts of $3 million, the remaining variation in adjusted EBIT for fiscal year 2024 was a decrease of $9 million, or 4%, reflecting the net negative effect of 13% from unfavorable volumes and favorable operating cost performance, partly offset by favorable price/mix of 9%. Consolidated Gross Profit Gross profit decreased by $13 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. The decrease was primarily driven by the impact of the disposed Russian business and lower volumes. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 19.9% for fiscal year 2024, driven by an improvement in operating cost performance. Consolidated Selling, General, and Administrative ("SG&A") Expenses SG&A increased by $14 million, or 1%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase was primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation of $15 million. Consolidated Restructuring, Impairment and Other Related Activities, Net Restructuring, impairment, and other related activities, net changed by $201 million, or 193%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. The change was mainly a result of a pre-tax net gain of $215 million on the disposal of the Russian business in fiscal year 2023, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring and related expenses, net, of $14 million in the current year, primarily related to the 2023 Restructuring Plan. Consolidated Other Income/(Expenses), Net Other income/(expenses), net changed by $61 million, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023, primarily from the $53 million adverse impact on monetary balances from highly inflationary accounting in Argentina. 32 Consolidated Interest Income Interest income increased by $7 million, or 23%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023, driven by increased interest rates on cash balances. Consolidated Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $58 million, or 20%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023, primarily driven by increased interest rates on U.S. dollar and Euro denominated variable rate debt. Consolidated Income Tax Expense Income tax expense decreased by $30 million, or 16%, in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023, primarily due to lower earnings. The higher effective tax rate for fiscal year 2024 is largely attributable to the non-taxable gain on the disposal of the Russian business in the comparative period. 33 Presentation of Non-GAAP Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to non-GAAP financial measures: adjusted earnings before interest and taxes ("Adjusted EBIT"), earnings before interest and tax ("EBIT"), adjusted net income, and net debt. Such measures have not been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). These non-GAAP financial measures adjust for factors that are unusual or unpredictable. These measures exclude the impact of certain amounts related to the effect of changes in currency exchange rates, acquisitions, and restructuring, including employee related costs, equipment relocation costs, accelerated depreciation, and the write-down of equipment. These measures also exclude gains or losses on sales of significant property and divestitures, significant property and other impairments, net of insurance recovery, certain regulatory and litigation matters, significant pension settlements, impairments in goodwill and equity method investments, and certain acquisition-related expenses, including transaction and integration expenses, due diligence expenses, professional and legal fees, purchase accounting adjustments for inventory, order backlog, intangible amortization, changes in the fair value of contingent acquisition payments and economic hedging instruments on commercial paper, CEO transition costs, and impacts related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict. Note that while amortization of acquired intangible assets is excluded from non-GAAP adjusted financial measures, the revenue of the acquired entities and all other expenses unless otherwise stated, are reflected in Adjusted EBIT and adjusted net income and the acquired assets contribute to revenue generation. This adjusted information should not be construed as an alternative to results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We use the non-GAAP measures to evaluate operating performance and believe that these non-GAAP measures are useful to enable investors and other external parties to perform comparisons of our current and historical performance. A reconciliation of reported net income attributable to Amcor plc to Adjusted EBIT and adjusted net income for fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022 is as follows: (1) 2018/2019 Restructuring programs include restructuring and related expenses for the 2019 Bemis Integration Plan for fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 6, "Restructuring," for more information. 34 (2) Amortization of acquired intangible assets from business combinations includes amortization expenses related to all acquired intangible assets from past acquisitions. (3) Impact of hyperinflation includes the adverse impact of highly inflationary accounting for subsidiaries in Argentina where the functional currency was the Argentine Peso. (4) Net loss on disposals, excluding the disposal of our Russian business, includes an expense of $10 million from the disposal of non-core assets in fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 10, "Fair Value Measurements," for more information. (5) Property and other losses, net in fiscal year 2023 includes property claims and losses of $5 million and $3 million of net insurance recovery related to the closure of our South African business. Fiscal year 2022 includes business losses primarily associated with the destruction of our Durban, South Africa facility during general civil unrest in July 2021, net of insurance recovery. (6) Restructuring and other related activities, net in fiscal year 2024 primarily includes costs incurred in connection with the 2023 Restructuring Plan. Fiscal year 2023 includes a pre-tax net gain on the sale of our Russian business of $215 million, incremental costs of $18 million, and restructuring and related expenses of $107 million incurred in connection with the conflict. Fiscal year 2022 includes $138 million of impairment charges, $57 million of restructuring and related expenses, and $5 million of other expenses. Refer to Note 4, "Restructuring, Impairment, and Other Related Activities, Net," and Note 6, "Restructuring," for further information. (7) CEO transition costs primarily reflect accelerated compensation, including share-based compensation, granted to our former Chief Executive Officer who retired from that role in April 2024, and other transition related expenses. (8) Other in fiscal year 2024 includes fair value losses of $16 million on economic hedges, retroactive foil duties, certain litigation reserve adjustments, and pension settlements, partially offset by changes in contingent purchase consideration. Fiscal year 2023 includes other restructuring, acquisition, litigation, and integration expenses of $13 million, pension settlement expenses of $5 million, and fair value gains of $16 million on economic hedges. Fiscal year 2022 includes costs associated with the Bemis transaction and pension settlement expenses of $8 million. (9) Net tax impact on items (1) through (8) above. Reconciliation of Net Debt A reconciliation of total debt to net debt at June 30, 2024 and 2023 is as follows: 35 Supplemental Guarantor Information Amcor plc, along with certain wholly owned subsidiary guarantors, guarantee the following senior notes issued by the wholly owned subsidiaries, Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc., Amcor UK Finance plc, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc., and Amcor Group Finance plc. • $500 million, 4.000% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2025 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • $300 million, 3.100% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • $600 million, 3.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2026 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • $500 million, 4.500% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2028 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • $500 million, 2.630% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2030 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • $800 million, 2.690% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2031 of Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. • €500 million, 1.125% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2027 of Amcor UK Finance plc • €500 million, 3.950% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2032 of Amcor UK Finance plc • $500 million, 5.625% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2033 of Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. • $500 million, 5.450% Guaranteed Senior Notes due 2029 of Amcor Group Finance plc The six notes issued by Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. are guaranteed by its parent entity, Amcor plc, and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc., Amcor Group Finance plc, and Amcor UK Finance plc. The two notes issued by Amcor UK Finance plc are guaranteed by its parent entity, Amcor plc, and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc., Amcor Finance (USA), Inc., and Amcor Group Finance plc. The note issued by Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. is guaranteed by its ultimate parent entity, Amcor plc, and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc., Amcor Group Finance plc, and Amcor UK Finance plc. The note issued by Amcor Group Finance plc is guaranteed by its ultimate parent entity, Amcor plc, and the subsidiary guarantors Amcor Pty Ltd, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc., Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc., and Amcor UK Finance plc. All guarantors fully, unconditionally, and irrevocably guarantee, on a joint and several basis, to each holder of the notes, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and any premium and interest on, such note and all other amounts payable, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at stated maturity, by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise, in accordance with the terms of the notes and related indenture. The obligations of the applicable guarantors under their guarantees will be limited as necessary to recognize certain defenses generally available to guarantors (including those that relate to fraudulent conveyance or transfer, voidable preference, financial assistance, corporate purpose, or similar laws) under applicable law. The guarantees will be unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the guarantors and will rank equally with all existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt of each guarantor. None of our other subsidiaries guarantee such notes. The issuers and guarantors conduct large parts of their operations through other subsidiaries of Amcor plc. Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc. is incorporated in Missouri in the United States, Amcor UK Finance plc and Amcor Group Finance plc are incorporated in England and Wales, United Kingdom, Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. is incorporated in Delaware in the United States, and the guarantors are incorporated under the laws of Jersey, Australia, the United States, and England and Wales and, therefore, insolvency proceedings with respect to the issuers and guarantors could proceed under, and be governed by, among others, Jersey, Australian, United States, or English insolvency law, as the case may be, if either issuer or any guarantor defaults on its obligations under the applicable Notes or Guarantees, respectively. Set forth below is the summarized financial information of the combined Obligor Group made up of Amcor plc (as parent guarantor), Amcor Flexibles North America, Inc., Amcor UK Finance plc, Amcor Group Finance plc, and Amcor Finance (USA), Inc. (as subsidiary issuers of the notes and guarantors of each other’s notes), and Amcor Pty Ltd (as the remaining subsidiary guarantor). 36 Basis of Preparation The following summarized financial information is presented for the parent, issuer, and guarantor subsidiaries ("Obligor Group") on a combined basis after elimination of intercompany transactions between entities in the combined group and amounts related to investments in any subsidiary that is a non-guarantor. This information is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the combined group of companies in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Statement of Income for Obligor Group (in millions) (1) Includes $1,247 million net intercompany income from Amcor entities from outside the Obligor Group, mainly attributable to intercompany dividends and intercompany interest income. Balance Sheet for Obligor Group (in millions) 37 Liquidity and Capital Resources We finance our business primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings from banks, and proceeds from issuances of debt and equity. We periodically review our capital structure and liquidity position in light of market conditions, expected future cash flows, potential funding requirements for debt refinancing, capital expenditures and acquisitions, the cost of capital, sensitivity analyses reflecting downside scenarios, the impact on our financial metrics and credit ratings, and our ease of access to funding sources. We believe that our cash flows provided by operating activities, together with borrowings available under our credit facilities and access to the commercial paper market, backstopped by our bank debt facilities, will continue to provide sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and other commitments, including dividends and purchases of our ordinary shares and CHESS Depositary Instruments under authorized share repurchase programs, into the foreseeable future. Overview Cash Flow Overview Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $60 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase in cash flow is primarily driven by lower working capital outflows in the current period. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased by $167 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase is primarily driven by the disposal proceeds collected from the sale of the Russian business in the prior period, partially offset by lower outflows for investments in affiliated companies and business acquisitions compared to the prior period. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $168 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to fiscal year 2023. The change is primarily driven by lower share buyback activity in the current period. Net Debt We borrow from financial institutions and debt investors in the form of bank overdrafts, bank loans, corporate bonds, unsecured notes, and commercial paper. We have a mixture of fixed and floating interest rates and use interest rate swaps to provide further flexibility in managing the interest cost of borrowings. Short-term debt consists of bank debt with a duration of less than 12 months and bank overdrafts which are classified as current due to the short-term nature of the borrowings, except where we have the ability and intent to refinance and as such extend the debt beyond 12 months. The current portion of long-term debt consists of debt amounts repayable within a year after the balance sheet date. Our primary bank debt facilities and notes are unsecured and subject to negative pledge arrangements limiting the amount of secured indebtedness we can incur to 10.0% of our total tangible assets, subject to some exceptions and variations by facility. In addition, the covenants of the bank debt facilities require us to maintain a leverage ratio not higher than 3.9 times. The negative pledge arrangements and the financial covenants are defined in the related debt agreements. As of June 30, 2024, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants under our bank debt facilities. Our net debt at each of June 30, 2024 and June 30, 2023 was $6.1 billion. 38 Debt Facilities and Refinancing As of June 30, 2024, we had undrawn credit facilities available in the amount of $2.4 billion. Our senior facilities are available to fund working capital, growth capital expenditures, and refinancing obligations and are provided to us by two bank syndicates. On April 23, 2024, we extended the maturity of our three-year syndicated facility agreement by one year until April 2026. The three-year syndicated facility agreement will be reduced from $1.9 billion to $1.7 billion effective April 2025. Our five-year syndicated credit facility matures in April 2027 and provides a revolving credit facility of $1.9 billion. The three-year facility has one 12-month option available to us to extend the maturity date and the five-year facility has two 12-month options available to us to extend the maturity date. As of June 30, 2024, the revolving senior bank debt facilities had an aggregate limit of $3.8 billion, of which $1.4 billion had been drawn (inclusive of amounts drawn under commercial paper programs reducing the overall balance of available senior facilities). Subject to certain conditions, we can request the total commitment level under each agreement to be increased by up to $500 million. For further information, refer to Note 13, "Debt." On May 21, 2024, we issued U.S. dollar notes with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million and a contractual maturity in May 2029. The notes pay a coupon of 5.45% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears. The notes are unsecured senior obligations of Amcor and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Amcor plc and certain of its subsidiaries. In conjunction with this issuance, we entered into U.S. dollar to Swiss franc cross currency swap contracts with a total notional amount of $500 million to effectively convert the fixed-rate U.S. dollar denominated debt into Swiss franc denominated debt, including semi-annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity. Under the terms of the cross currency swaps, we receive a fixed U.S. dollar rate of interest of 5.45% and pay a fixed weighted average Swiss franc rate of interest of 2.218%. On May 22, 2024, we issued Euro notes with an aggregate principal amount of €500 million and a contractual maturity in May 2032. The notes pay a coupon of 3.95% per annum, payable annually in arrears. The notes are unsecured senior obligations of Amcor and are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Amcor plc and certain of its subsidiaries. Dividend Payments In fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, we paid $722 million, $723 million, and $732 million, respectively, in dividends. The dividend per share has increased in each of the years, with the total amount paid declining due to repurchase of shares under announced share buyback programs. Credit Rating Our capital structure and financial practices have earned us investment grade credit ratings from two internationally recognized credit rating agencies. These investment grade credit ratings are important to our ability to issue debt at favorable rates of interest, for various terms, and from a diverse range of markets that are highly liquid, including European and U.S. debt capital markets and from global financial institutions. Share Repurchases On August 17, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a $400 million buyback of ordinary shares and/or CHESS Depositary Instruments ("CDIs") and this program has been completed in fiscal year 2023. On February 7, 2023, our Board of Directors approved a $100 million buyback of ordinary shares and/or CDIs in the following twelve months. On February 6, 2024, our Board of Directors extended the approval for the remaining $39 million of ordinary shares and CDIs of the $100 million buyback for twelve months. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, we repurchased approximately $30 million, including transaction costs, or 3 million shares. The shares repurchased as part of the above programs were canceled upon repurchase. We had cash outflows of $48 million, $221 million, and $143 million for the purchase of our shares in the open market during fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, as treasury shares to satisfy the vesting and exercises of share-based compensation awards. As of June 30, 2024, 2023, and 2022, we held treasury shares at cost of $11 million, $12 million, and $18 million, representing 1 million, 1 million, and 2 million shares, respectively. 39 Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements for future periods from known contractual obligations are included below. We expect to fund these cash requirements primarily through cash flows provided by operating activities, borrowings from banks, and proceeds from issuances of debt and equity. These amounts reflect material cash requirements for which we are contractually committed. • Debt obligations and interest payments: Refer to Note 13, “Debt” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our debt obligations and interest payments and the related timing of these expected payments. • Operating and finance leases: Refer to Note 14, “Leases” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about our lease obligations and the related timing of the expected payments. • Employee benefit plan obligations: Refer to Note 12, “Defined Benefit Plans” of the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information about our employee benefit plan obligations and the related timing of the expected payments. • Capital expenditures: As of June 30, 2024, we have $266 million in committed capital expenditures for fiscal year 2025. • Other purchase obligations: Amcor has other purchase obligations, including commitments to purchase a specified minimum amount of goods, inclusive of raw materials, utilities, and other. These obligations are legally binding and non-cancellable. Where we are unable to determine the periods in which these obligations could be payable under these contracts, we present the cash requirement in the earliest period in which the minimum obligation could be payable. The estimated future cash outlays are approximately $1.1 billion, $250 million, $100 million, $100 million, and $100 million in fiscal years 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028, and 2029, respectively. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than as described under "Material Cash Requirements", we had no significant off-balance sheet contractual obligations or other commitments as of June 30, 2024. Liquidity Risk and Outlook Liquidity risk arises from the possibility that we might encounter difficulty in settling our debts or otherwise meeting our obligations related to financial liabilities. We manage liquidity risk centrally and such management involves maintaining available funding and ensuring that we have access to an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of our business, the aim is to maintain flexibility within our funding structure through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans, corporate bonds, unsecured notes, and commercial paper. The following guidelines are used to manage our liquidity risk: • maintaining minimum undrawn committed liquidity of at least $200 million that can be drawn at short notice; • regularly performing a comprehensive analysis of all cash inflows and outflows in relation to operational, investing, and financing activities; • generally using tradable instruments only in highly liquid markets; • maintaining a credit investment grade rating with a reputable independent rating agency; • managing credit risk related to financial assets; • monitoring the duration of long-term debt; • only investing surplus cash with major financial institutions or well diversified money market funds; and • to the extent practicable, spreading the maturity dates of long-term debt facilities. Our three- and five-year syndicated unsecured facility agreements each provide a revolving credit facility of $1.9 billion, $3.8 billion in total. On April 23, 2024, we extended the maturity of our three-year syndicated facility agreement by one year until April 2026. The three-year syndicated facility agreement will be reduced from $1.9 billion to $1.7 billion effective April 2025. Our five-year syndicated credit facility matures in April 2027 and provides a revolving credit facility of $1.9 billion. The three-year facility has one 12-month option available to us to extend the maturity date and the five-year facility has two 12-month options available to us to extend the maturity date. As of June 30, 2024, and 2023, an aggregate principal amount of $1.4 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, was drawn under commercial paper programs. However, such programs are backstopped by committed bank syndicated loan facilities with maturities in April 2026 and April 2027, with options to extend, under which we had $2.4 billion in unused capacity remaining as of June 30, 2024. 40 We expect long-term future funding needs to primarily relate to refinancing and servicing our outstanding financial liabilities maturing as outlined above and to finance our capital expenditure and payments for acquisitions that may be completed. We expect to continue to fund our long-term business needs on the same basis as in the past, i.e., partially through the cash flow provided by operating activities available to the business and management of the capital of the business, in particular through issuance of commercial paper and debt securities on a regular basis. We decide on discretionary growth capital expenditures and acquisitions individually based on, among other factors, the return on investment after related financing costs and the payback period of required upfront cash investments in light of our mid-term liquidity planning covering a period of four years post the current fiscal year. Our long-term access to liquidity depends on both our results of operations and on the availability of funding in financial markets. 41 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to retirement benefits, intangible assets, goodwill, and expected future performance of operations. Our estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following are critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The critical accounting estimates discussed below should be read together with our significant accounting policies in Note 2, “Significant Accounting Policies,” of the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Pensions The majority of our principal defined benefit plans are closed to new entrants and future accruals. The accounting for defined benefit pension plans requires us to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of the pension plans on our balance sheet. A significant portion of our pension amounts relates to our defined benefit plans in the United States, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and Germany. The net periodic pension cost recorded in fiscal year 2024 was $12 million, compared to net periodic pension cost of $11 million in fiscal year 2023 and $12 million in fiscal year 2022. We expect our net periodic pension cost before the effect of income taxes for fiscal year 2025 to be approximately $16 million. For our sponsored plans, the relevant accounting guidance requires management to make certain assumptions relating to the long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rates used to determine the present value of future obligations and expenses, salary inflation rates, mortality rates, and other assumptions. We believe the accounting estimates related to our pension plans are critical accounting estimates because they are highly susceptible to change from period to period based on the performance of plan assets, actuarial valuations, market conditions, and contractual benefit changes. The selection of assumptions is based on historical trends, known economic and market conditions at the time of valuation, and independent studies of trends performed by our actuaries. However, actual results may differ substantially from the estimates that were based on the critical assumptions. The difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation of a pension plan must be recorded on the consolidated balance sheets as an asset, in the case of an overfunded plan, or as a liability, in the case of an underfunded plan. Gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise but are not recognized as components of pension cost are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income/(loss). Pension plan liabilities are revalued annually, or when an event occurs that requires remeasurement, based on updated assumptions and information about the individuals covered by the plan. Accumulated actuarial gains and losses in excess of a 10 percent corridor and the prior service cost are amortized on a straight-line basis from the date recognized over the average remaining service period of active participants or over the average life expectancy for plans with significant inactive participants. We review annually the discount rates used to calculate the present value of pension plan liabilities. The discount rates used at each measurement date is determined based on a high-quality corporate bond yield curve, derived based on bond universe information sourced from reputable third-party indexes, data providers, and rating agencies. In countries where there is not a deep market for corporate bonds, we generally use a government bond approach to set the discount rate. Additionally, the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets is derived for each benefit plan by considering the expected future long-term return assumption for each individual asset class. A single long-term return assumption is then derived for each plan based on the plan's target asset allocation. Pension Assumptions Sensitivity Analysis The following chart depicts the sensitivity of estimated fiscal year 2025 pension expense to incremental changes in the weighted average discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on assets. 42 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, including intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized but is instead tested for impairment annually as of April 1 of each fiscal year, or when events and circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. Our reporting units each contain goodwill that is assessed for potential impairment. All goodwill is assigned to a reporting unit, which we have defined as an operating segment, based on the relative fair value of the reporting unit at the time of each acquisition. We have six reporting units, of which five are included in our Flexibles reportable segment. The other reporting unit, Rigid Packaging, is also a reportable segment. In our impairment analysis, we may elect to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether a quantitative test is necessary. If we determine that a quantitative test is necessary or elect to perform a quantitative test instead of the qualitative test, we derive an estimate of fair values for each of our reporting units using income approaches. The most significant assumptions used in the determination of the estimated fair value of the reporting units are revenue growth, projected operating income growth, market multiples, terminal values, and discount rates. When the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and estimated fair value of the reporting unit, adjusted for any tax benefits, limited to the amount of the carrying value of goodwill. Our estimates associated with the goodwill impairment tests are considered critical due to the amount of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheets and the judgment required in determining fair value amounts, including projected future cash flows. Judgment is also used in assessing whether goodwill should be tested more frequently for impairment than annually. Factors such as a significant decrease in expected net earnings, adverse equity market conditions, and other external events, such as significant inflation and rising interest rates, may result in the need for more frequent assessments. Intangible assets consist primarily of purchased customer relationships, technology, trademarks, and software and are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, ranging from one to twenty years. We review these intangible assets for impairment when changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest that the remaining value is not recoverable. The impairment test requires us to make estimates about fair value, most of which are based on projected future cash flows and discount rates. These estimates and projections require judgments about future events, conditions, and amounts of future cash flows. Deferred Taxes and Uncertain Tax Positions Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining our deferred tax assets and liabilities and uncertain tax positions as tax laws are often complex and may be subject to differing interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant taxing authorities. Determining uncertain tax positions involves evaluating whether the weight of available positive and negative evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position taken or expected to be taken in the tax return will be sustained upon tax audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The recognized tax benefits are measured as the largest benefit of having a more likely than not likelihood of being sustained upon settlement. Additionally, we are required to assess the likelihood of recovering deferred tax assets against future sources of taxable income which may result in the need for a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets, including operating loss, capital loss, and tax credit carryforwards if we do not reach the more likely than not threshold based on all available evidence. Examples of factors considered in determining deferred tax asset realizability include the expected future performance of operations and taxable earnings, the expected timing of the reversal of temporary differences, as well as the feasibility of tax planning strategies. If actual results differ from these estimates or if there are future changes in tax laws or statutory tax rates, we may need to adjust valuation allowances, or deferred tax liabilities, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Valuation of Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale 43 Disposal groups held for sale are assessed for impairment by comparing their fair values, less cost to sell, to their carrying values. The fair values of disposal groups held for sale are estimated using accepted valuation techniques, including earnings multiples, discounted cash flows, and indicative bids. Several significant estimates and assumptions are involved in the application of these techniques, including forecasting sales, expenses, and various other factors. We consider historical experience, guidance received from third parties, and all information available at the time the estimates are made to derive fair value. However, the fair value that is ultimately realized upon the divestiture of a business may significantly differ from the estimated fair value recognized in our consolidated financial statements, especially for disposal groups located in conflict regions. Refer to Note 5, "Acquisitions and Divestitures." New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 3, "New Accounting Guidance," of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information about new accounting pronouncements. 44