********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties our business faces. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as employment relations, general economic conditions, geopolitical events and international operations. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may in the future materially and adversely affect our business, operations, liquidity and stock price. SUMMARY Risks Related to Economic Conditions and Operating a Global Business, Including During the COVID-19 Pandemic • The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. • A breakdown of our information technology systems, cyberattack or information security breach could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information technology systems, network-connected control systems and/or our data, interrupt the operation of our business and/or affect our reputation. • Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. Risks Related to Government Regulations and Third-Party Policies • Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. • Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. • The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. • Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. Risks Related to Competition • Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition. 27 • Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in current and future intellectual property litigation. • We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future. • Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of private payers may negatively affect our business. Risks Related to Research and Development • We may not be able to develop commercial products despite significant investments in R&D. • We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. • Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. • Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices that have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. • Some of our pharmaceutical pipeline and our commercial product sales rely on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sales of our products. • Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire other companies, products, or technology, and to integrate the operations of companies or to support the products or technology we have acquired, may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. Risks Related to Operations • We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; significant disruptions or production failures at these facilities could significantly impair our ability to supply our products or continue our clinical trials. • We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. • Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. • Our business and operations may be negatively affected by the failure, or perceived failure, of achieving our environmental, social and governance objectives. • The effects of global climate change and related natural disasters could negatively affect our business and operations. General Risk Factors • Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. • Our stock price is volatile. • We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. RISKS RELATED TO ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND OPERATING A GLOBAL BUSINESS, INCLUDING DURING THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. The novel coronavirus identified in late 2019, SARS-CoV-2, which causes the disease known as COVID-19, is an ongoing global pandemic that has resulted in public and governmental efforts to contain or slow the spread of the disease, including widespread shelter-in-place orders, social distancing interventions, quarantines, travel restrictions and various forms of operational shutdowns. The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting measures implemented in response to the pandemic are adversely affecting, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, our business (including our R&D, clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development and sales activities), the business activities 28 of our suppliers, customers, third-party payers and our patients. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval ; see also We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications . Due to the pandemic and these measures and their effects, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, unpredictable reductions in demand for certain of our products, exacerbated by COVID-19 surges resulting in repeated shutdowns and/or disruptions in certain geographies. Federal, state and local, and international governmental policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 also have resulted in the cancellation or delay of diagnostic, elective, specialty and other procedures and appointments to avoid non-essential patient exposure to medical environments and potential infection with COVID-19 and to focus limited resources and personnel capacity toward the treatment of COVID-19. For example, an NPR/Harvard poll in 2021 found that, with hospitals crowded from COVID-19, one in five U.S. households had to delay care for serious illnesses. These measures and challenges will likely continue to varying degrees and have significantly reduced patient access to, and administration of, certain of our drugs. For example, Prolia requires administration by a healthcare provider in doctors’ offices or other healthcare settings that are affected by COVID-19. The U.S. label for Prolia instructs healthcare professionals who discontinue Prolia to transition the patient to an alternative antiresorptive, including oral treatments that do not require administration by a healthcare provider. Further, as a result of COVID-19, oncology patients, in consultation with their doctors, may be selecting therapies that are less immunosuppressive or therapies that do not require administration in a hospital setting, potentially adversely affecting sales of certain of our products. Also, new patients have been, and are expected to continue to be, less likely to be diagnosed and/or to start therapeutics during the pandemic, and these effects, together with the lower treatment rates during the pandemic, have had, and are expected to continue to have, a cumulative negative effect on the commercial performance of our business. The decrease in diagnoses over the course of the pandemic has suppressed the volume of new patients starting treatment, which we expect to continue to impact our business. As COVID-19 infection rates ebb and flow, we anticipate there could be periodic backlogs of patients seeking appointments with physicians relating to a variety of medical conditions, and as a result, patients seeking treatment with certain of our products may have to navigate lower provider capacity, and this lower provider capacity could have a continued adverse effect on our sales. Further, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may result in long-term shifts in preferences among healthcare professionals and patients toward treatments that do not require administration by healthcare professionals or visits to medical facilities. As the pandemic continues, and if conditions worsen or if the duration of the pandemic extends significantly, we expect to experience additional adverse effects on our development, operational and commercial activities, customer purchases and our collections of accounts receivable. It remains uncertain the degree to which these adverse effects would impact our future operational and commercial activities, customer purchases and our collections as conditions begin to improve. There was a resurgence in COVID-19 infections in numerous jurisdictions in 2022, resulting in the reinstatement of stricter restrictions and shutdowns in a number of jurisdictions, including in the United States, Europe and Asia Pacific regions. It is expected that the pandemic will continue to ebb and flow, with different jurisdictions having higher levels of infections than others over the course of the pandemic. New variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus have emerged, including the delta and omicron variants and its subvariants, and have been shown to be present in many geographies and appear to spread more easily and quickly than other variants. Further, although some studies suggest that antibodies generated with currently authorized vaccines may be effective against these variants, it remains uncertain whether currently available vaccines will retain their efficacy against future variants of the virus. Further, even while vaccine booster shots are available for certain patients, persistent vaccine hesitancy may result in under-vaccinated populations which may prolong the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and continue to disrupt the availability of healthcare services to the patients we serve. Jurisdictions may implement, continue or reinstate border closures, impose or reimpose prolonged quarantines and further restrict travel and business activity. These measures could significantly affect our ability to support our operations and customers and the ability of our employees to get to their workplaces to discover, study, develop and produce our product candidates and products, disrupt the movement of our products through the supply chain, and further prevent or discourage patients from participating in our clinical trials, seeking healthcare services and the administration of certain of our products. The increased availability of remote working arrangements in response to the COVID-19 pandemic has expanded the pool of companies that can compete for our employees and employment candidates. Further, in connection with the global outbreak and spread of COVID-19 and in an effort to increase the wider availability of needed medical products, we or our suppliers may elect to, or governments may require us or our suppliers to, allocate manufacturing capacity (for example pursuant to the U.S. Defense Production Act) in a way that adversely affects our regular operations, customer relationships and financial results. In the United States, on January 21, 2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order instructing federal agencies to use all available legal authorities, including the Defense Production Act, to improve current and future pandemic response and biological threat preparedness. The rapid reallocation of resources for the treatment and prevention of COVID-19 (including the production of COVID-19 vaccines or related therapies, such as our agreement to contribute to the production of COVID-19 antibody therapies for Lilly) and/or disruptions and shortages in the global supply chain caused by the pandemic, could also result in increased competition for, or reduced availability of, materials or components used in the development, manufacturing, distribution or administration of our products. For example, during the second quarter of 2021, an industry-wide shortage of certain lab kit supplies necessary for some activities that support our 29 clinical trials has developed that we are actively monitoring and managing. We have also experienced challenges in obtaining certain COVID-19-related supplies, including COVID-19 antigen rapid test kits for our staff, as a result of high demand and limited supplies during the omicron variant surge. In addition, unpredictable increases in demand for certain of our products could exceed our capacity to meet such demand, which could adversely affect our financial results and customer relationships. The COVID-19 pandemic and the volatile global economic conditions stemming from it may precipitate or amplify the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section, which could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition and results. For example, if a natural disaster or other potentially disruptive event occurs concurrently with the COVID-19 pandemic, such disaster or event could deplete our inventory levels and we could experience a disruption to our manufacturing or ability to supply our products. The rapid development and fluidity of the pandemic precludes any prediction as to the ultimate effect of COVID-19 on us. The duration of the measures being taken by the authorities to mitigate against the spread of COVID-19 (including the distribution and/or availability of vaccines and boosters), and the extent to which such measures are effective, if at all, remain highly uncertain. The magnitude and degree of COVID-19’s adverse effect on our business (including our product development, product sales, operating results and resulting cash flows) and financial condition will be driven by the severity and duration of the pandemic, the pandemic’s effect on the United States and global economies and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state, local and international governmental responses to the pandemic. If mitigation of the pandemic continues to require further shelter-in-place and shutdown orders and/or restrictions on individual and/or group conduct, any adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will likely grow and could be enduring, and our business and financial position could be materially adversely affected. A breakdown of our information technology systems, cyberattack or information security breach could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information technology systems, network-connected control systems and/or our data, interrupt the operation of our business and/or affect our reputation. To achieve our business objectives, we rely on sophisticated information technology systems, including software, mobile applications, cloud services and network-connected control systems, some of which are managed, hosted, provided or serviced by third parties. Internal or external events that compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and data may significantly interrupt the operation of our business, result in significant costs and/or adversely affect our reputation. Our information technology systems are highly integrated into our business, including our R&D efforts, our clinical and commercial manufacturing processes and our product sales and distribution processes. Further, as the majority of our employees work remotely for some portion of their jobs in our hybrid work environment, our reliance on our and third-party information technology systems has increased substantially and is expected to continue to increase. The complexity and interconnected nature of our systems makes them potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other service interruptions. Upgrades or changes to our systems or the software that we use may result in the introduction of new cybersecurity vulnerabilities and risks. In 2022 we identified a number of security vulnerabilities introduced into our information systems as a result of flaws that we subsequently identified in software that we purchased and installed, and these flaws required that we apply emergency patches to certain of our systems. While we did not experience any significant adverse effects as a result of these vulnerabilities, there can be no assurance that we will timely identify and address any future vulnerabilities. Our systems are also subject to frequent perimeter network reconnaissance and scanning, phishing and other cyberattacks. As the cyber-threat landscape evolves, these attacks are growing in frequency, sophistication and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect. Such attacks could include the use of harmful and virulent malware, including ransomware or other denials of service, that can be deployed through various means, including the software supply chain, e-mail, malicious websites and/or the use of social engineering. We have also experienced denial of service attacks against our network, and although such attacks did not succeed, there can be no assurance that our efforts to guard against the wide and growing variety of potential attack techniques will be successful in the future. Attacks such as those experienced by governmental entities (including those that approve and/or regulate our products, such as the EMA) and other multi-national companies, including some of our peers, could leave us unable to utilize key business systems or access or protect important data and could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business, including developing, gaining regulatory approval for, manufacturing, selling and/or distributing our products. For example, in 2017, a pharmaceutical company experienced a cyberattack involving virulent malware that significantly disrupted its operations, including its research and sales operations and the production of some of its medicines and vaccines. As a result of the cyberattack, its orders and sales for certain products in certain markets were negatively affected. In late 2020, SolarWinds Corporation, a leading provider of software for monitoring and managing information technology infrastructure, disclosed that it had suffered a cybersecurity incident whereby attackers had inserted malicious code into legitimate software updates for its products that were installed by myriad private and government customers, enabling the attackers to access a backdoor to such systems. In 2022, Okta, Inc., a provider of software that helps companies manage user authentication, disclosed that several hundred of its corporate customers were vulnerable to a security breach that allowed 30 attackers to access Okta’s internal network. Although this breach did not have a significant effect on our business, there can be no assurance that a similar future breach would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our systems also contain and utilize a high volume of sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets, financial information, regulatory information, strategic plans, sales trends and forecasts, litigation materials and/or personal information belonging to us, our staff, our patients, customers and/or other parties. In some cases, we utilize third-party service providers to process, store, manage or transmit such data, which may increase our risk. Intentional or inadvertent data privacy or security breaches (including cyberattacks) resulting from attacks or lapses by employees, service providers (including providers of information technology-specific services), business partners, nation states (including groups associated with or supported by foreign intelligence agencies), organized crime organizations, “hacktivists” or others, create risks that our sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons, our competitors or the public. System vulnerabilities and/or cybersecurity breaches experienced by our third-party service providers have constituted a substantial share of the information security risks that have affected us. For example, in the first half of 2021, a supplier experienced a data breach in which an unauthorized third party acquired access to certain information provided to the supplier in the course of its provision of services to us, including business documents and certain personally identifiable patient information (not including social security or other financial or health insurance information). As required, we promptly notified the applicable state attorneys general and the individuals whose personally identifiable information was affected of this data breach at the supplier. In the third quarter of 2022, another service provider experienced a similar cybersecurity breach in which an attacker exfiltrated certain data (including non-significant Amgen data) from the service provider’s systems. Although these supplier data breaches have not resulted in material adverse effects on our business, there can be no assurance that a similar future cybersecurity incident would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Further, the timeliness of our awareness of a cybersecurity incident affects our ability to respond to and work to mitigate the severity of such events. For example, in 2020 and 2022, two of our vendors experienced cyberattacks and each initially reported to us that neither event involved our data. However, upon further investigation, they each subsequently informed us that the attackers had accessed limited, non-significant Amgen information. Although neither of these breaches had a significant adverse effect on our business, in the future we may again not receive timely reporting of cybersecurity events and such events could have a material adverse effect on our business. Cyberattackers are also increasingly exploiting vulnerabilities in commercially available software from shared or open-source code. We rely on third party commercial software that may have such vulnerabilities, but as use of open-source code is frequently not disclosed, our ability to fully assess this risk to our systems is limited. For example, in December 2021, a remote code execution vulnerability was discovered in a widely used software library that is used in a variety of commercially available software and services. Although this vulnerability has not resulted in any significant adverse effects on us, there can be no assurances that a similar future vulnerability in the software and services that we use would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Domestic and global government regulators, our business partners, suppliers with whom we do business, companies that provide us or our partners with business services and companies we have acquired or may acquire face similar risks, and security breaches of their systems or service outages could adversely affect our security, leave us without access to important systems, products, raw materials, components, services or information or expose our confidential data or sensitive personal information. For example, in 2019, two vendors that perform testing and analytical services that we use in developing and manufacturing our products experienced cyberattacks, and in April and September of 2020, vendors that provide us with information technology services and clinical data services, respectively, each experienced ransomware attacks. Although there was no breach of our systems, each of these incidents required us to disconnect our systems from those vendors’ systems. While we were able to reconnect our systems following restoration of these vendors’ capabilities without significantly affecting product availability, a more extended service outage affecting these or other vendors, particularly where such vendor is the single source from which we obtain the services, could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. In addition, we distribute our products in the United States primarily through three pharmaceutical wholesalers, and a security breach that impairs the distribution operations of our wholesalers could significantly impair our ability to deliver our products to healthcare providers and patients. Although we have experienced system breakdowns, attacks and information security breaches, we do not believe such breakdowns, attacks and breaches have had a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We continue to invest in the monitoring, protection and resilience of our critical and/or sensitive data and systems. However, there can be no assurances that our efforts will detect, prevent or fully recover systems or data from all breakdowns, service interruptions, attacks and/or breaches of our systems that could adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss or exposure of critical, proprietary, private, confidential or otherwise sensitive data, which could result in material financial, legal, business or reputational harm to us or negatively affect our stock price. While we maintain cyber-liability insurance, our insurance is not sufficient to cover us against all losses that could potentially result from a service interruption, breach of our systems or loss of our critical or sensitive data. 31 We are also subject to various laws and regulations globally regarding privacy and data protection, including laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer and security of personal data. The legislative and regulatory environment regarding privacy and data protection is continuously evolving and developing and the subject of significant attention globally. For example, we are subject to the EU’s GDPR, which became effective in May 2018, and the CCPA, which became effective in January 2020, both of which provide for substantial penalties for noncompliance. The CCPA was amended in late 2020, to create the California Privacy Rights Act to create opt in requirements for the use of sensitive personal data and the formation of a new dedicated agency for the enforcement of the law, the California Privacy Protection Agency. Virginia, Colorado, Utah and Connecticut have all subsequently passed similar consumer privacy laws, which went into effect in Virginia as of January 1, 2023, and will go into effect in Colorado, Utah and Connecticut later in 2023. Other jurisdictions where we operate have passed, or continue to propose, similar legislation and/or regulations. For example, in China, the Personal Information Protection Law and the Data Security Law, which regulate data processing activities associated with personal and nonpersonal data, are in effect and build upon the existing Cybersecurity Law. Failure to comply with these current and future laws could result in significant penalties and reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets . As we continue our expansion efforts in emerging markets around the world, through acquisitions and l icensing transactions as well as through the development and introduction, both independently and through collaborations such as our collaboration with BeiGene, of our products in new markets, we face numerous risks to our business. There is no guarantee that our efforts and strategies to expand sales in emerging markets will succeed. Our international business, including in China and emerging market countries, may be especially vulnerable to periods of global and local political, legal, regulatory and financial instability, including issues of geopolitical relations, the imposition of international sanctions in response to certain state actions and/or sovereign debt issues. Further, in 2022 and continuing through early 2023, the Asia Pacific region also experienced a surge of COVID-19 infections. While one country in the region initially responded to the surge by activating strict containment measures, in late 2022 that country abruptly reversed those measures, resulting in a significant COVID-19 outbreak, causing issues such as lack of capacity at hospitals that could lead to a local health emergencies. If relations between the United States and other governments deteriorate, our business and investments in such markets may also be adversely affected. We may also be required to increase our reliance on third-party agents and unfamiliar operations and arrangements including those previously utilized by companies we partner with or acquire in emerging markets. See We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications . Our expansion efforts in China and emerging markets around the world are dependent upon the establishment of an environment that is predictable, navigable and supportive of biopharmaceutical innovation, sustained access for our products and predictable pricing controls. For example, China continues to strengthen regulations on the collection, use and transmission of Chinese human genetic resources, and has expanded regulations on the conduct of biotechnology R&D activities in China. Between 2020 and 2022, we experienced delays in our applications to the Human Genetic Resources Administration of China that sought approval to conduct clinical trials in China. Our international operations and business may also be subject to less protective intellectual property or other applicable laws, diverse data privacy and protection requirements, changing tax laws and tariffs, trade restrictions or other barriers designed to protect industry in the home country against foreign competition, far-reaching antibribery and anticorruption laws and regulations and/or evolving legal and regulatory environments. In response to the ongoing armed conflict in Ukraine, the U.S. government, numerous state governments, the EU and other countries in which we conduct business have imposed a wide range of economic sanctions that restrict commerce and business dealings with Russia, certain regions of Ukraine and certain entities and individuals. This conflict may also precipitate or amplify the other risks described herein, including risks relating to cybersecurity, global economic conditions, clinical trials and supply chains, which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition and results. As we expand internationally, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. While we have a program in place that is designed to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations through foreign currency hedging arrangements, our hedging efforts do not completely offset the effect of these fluctuations on our revenues and earnings. Overall, the legal and operational challenges of our international business operations, along with government controls, the challenges of attracting and retaining qualified personnel and obtaining and/or maintaining necessary regulatory or pricing approvals of our products, may result in material adverse effects on our international product sales, business and results of operations. 32 RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND THIRD-PARTY POLICIES Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Sales of our products depend on the availability and extent of coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including government healthcare programs and private insurance plans. Governments and private payers continue to pursue initiatives to manage drug utilization and contain costs. Further, pressures on healthcare budgets from the pandemic, the economic downturn and inflation continue and are likely to increase across the markets we serve. Payers are increasingly focused on costs, which have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in lower reimbursement rates for our products or narrower populations for which payers will reimburse. Continued intense public scrutiny of the price of drugs and other healthcare costs, together with payer dynamics, have limited, and are likely to continue to limit, our ability to set or adjust the price of our products based on their value, which can have a material adverse effect on our business. In the United States, particularly over the past few years, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals have been introduced and/or signed into law that attempt to lower drug prices. These include legislation promulgated by the IRA that enables the U.S. government to set prices for certain drugs in Medicare, redesigns Medicare Part D benefits to shift a greater portion of the costs to manufacturers and enables the U.S. government to impose penalties if drug prices are increased at a rate faster than inflation. Additional proposals focused on drug pricing continue to be debated, and additional executive orders focused on drug pricing and competition are likely to be adopted and implemented in some form. Government actions or ballot initiatives at the state level also represent a highly active area of policymaking and experimentation, including pursuit of proposals that limit drug reimbursement under state run Medicaid programs based on reference prices or permitting importation of drugs from Canada. Such state policies may also eventually be adopted at the federal level. We are unable to predict which or how many policy, regulatory, administrative or legislative changes may ultimately be, or effectively estimate the consequences to our business if, enacted and implemented. However, to the extent that payer actions further decrease or modify the coverage or reimbursement available for our products, require that we pay increased rebates or shift other costs to us, limit or affect our decisions regarding the pricing of or otherwise reduce the use of our products, such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. —Changing U.S. federal coverage and reimbursement policies and practices have affected and are likely to continue to affect access to, pricing of and sales of our products A substantial portion of our U.S. business relies on reimbursement from federal government healthcare programs and commercial insurance plans regulated by federal and state governments. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Reimbursement. Our business has been and will continue to be affected by legislative actions changing U.S. federal reimbursement policy. For example, in August 2022, the IRA was enacted and includes provisions requiring that: (1) beginning in 2026, mandatory price setting be introduced in Medicare for certain drugs paid for under Parts B and D, whereby manufacturers must accept a price established by the government or face penalties on all U.S. sales (starting with 10 drugs in 2026, adding 15 in 2027 and 2028, and adding 20 in 2029 and subsequent years such that by 2031 approximately 100 drugs could be subject to such set prices); (2) starting in 2024, Medicare Part D be redesigned to cap beneficiary out-of-pocket costs and, beginning January 1, 2025, Federal reinsurance be reduced in the catastrophic phase (resulting in a shift and increase of such costs to Part D plans and manufacturers, including by requiring manufacturer discounts on certain drugs); and (3) beginning October 1, 2022, manufacturers will owe rebates on drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part D if price increases outpace inflation, and beginning January 1, 2023, will owe rebates on drugs reimbursed under Medicare Part B if price increases outpace inflation. The IRA’s drug pricing controls and Medicare redesign is likely to have a material adverse effect on our sales (particularly for our products that are more substantially reliant on Medicare reimbursement), our business and our results of operations. However, as the degree of impact from this legislation on our business depends on a number of implementation decisions, the extent of the IRA’s impact on our sales and, in turn, our business remains unclear. Further, following the passage of the IRA, the environment remains dynamic, and in October 2022, the Administration issued an Executive Order on Lowering Prescription Drug Costs for Americans that calls for the HHS to issue a report within 90 days on Innovation Center models that would lower drug costs and promote access to innovative drug therapies for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. This Executive Order follows a 2021 Executive Order that included a timeline designed to increase competition in the healthcare sector, including by calling for the FDA to develop prescription drug importation programs and the FTC to apply greater scrutiny of anticompetitive activity. Responses to this order, including by the HHS, which released a report with drug pricing proposals that seek to promote competition, and by the USPTO, which has taken steps to strengthen coordination with the FDA to address impediments to generic drug and biosimilar competition. CMS policy changes and demonstration projects to test new care, delivery and payment models can also significantly affect how drugs, including our products, are covered and reimbursed. In September 2021, HHS released a plan to address drug pricing that included potential future mandatory models that link payment for prescription drugs and biologics to certain factors, including the overall cost of care. 33 We also face risks related to the reporting of pricing data that affects reimbursement of and discounts provided for our products. U.S. government price reporting regulations are complex and may require biopharmaceutical manufacturers to update certain previously submitted data. If our submitted pricing data are incorrect, we may become subject to substantial fines and penalties or other government enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as a result of restating previously reported price data, we may be required to pay additional rebates and provide additional discounts. —Changing reimbursement and pricing actions in various states have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect access to and have affected and may continue to affect sales of our products At the state level, government actions or ballot initiatives can also affect how our products are covered and reimbursed and/or create additional pressure on our pricing decisions. Existing and proposed state pricing laws have added complexity to the pricing of drugs and may already be affecting industry pricing decisions. A number of states have adopted, and many other states are considering, drug importation programs or other pricing actions, including proposals designed to require biopharmaceutical manufacturers to report to the state proprietary pricing information or provide advance notice of certain price increases. For example, a California law requires biopharmaceutical manufacturers to notify health insurers and government health plans at least 60 days before scheduled prescription drug price increases that exceed certain thresholds. Similar laws exist in Oregon and Washington. Additional proposals directed at Medicaid seek to penalize manufacturers for pricing drugs above a certain threshold or limit spending on biopharmaceutical products. States are also seeking to change the way they pay for drugs for patients covered by state programs. New York has established a Medicaid drug spending cap, and Massachusetts implemented a new review and supplemental rebate negotiation process. Six states (Colorado, Maine, New Hampshire, Maryland, Oregon and Washington) have enacted laws that establish Prescription Drug Affordability Boards (PDABs) to study drug prices and identify drugs that pose affordability challenges, and in three states (Colorado, Maryland and Washington) include authority for the state PDAB to set upper payment limits on certain drugs in state regulated plans. Other states may consider implementing similar policies and laws. Additionally, Colorado, Florida, Maine, New Hampshire, New Mexico and Vermont have enacted laws, and several other states have proposed bills, to implement importation of drugs from Canada. The FDA has met with representatives from Colorado, Florida, Maine and New Mexico to discuss those states’ proposed importation programs, and the FDA may be working towards approving such plans. Other states could adopt similar approaches or could pursue different policy changes in a continuing effort to reduce their costs. Ultimately, as with U.S. federal government actions, existing or future state government actions or ballot initiatives may also have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. —U.S. commercial payer actions have affected and may continue to affect access to and sales of our products Payers, including healthcare insurers, PBMs, integrated healthcare delivery systems (vertically-integrated organizations built from consolidations of healthcare insurers and PBMs) and group purchasing organizations, increasingly seek ways to reduce their costs. With increasing frequency, payers are adopting benefit plan changes that shift a greater proportion of drug costs to patients. Such measures include more limited benefit plan designs, high deductible plans, higher patient co-pay or coinsurance obligations and more significant limitations on patients’ use of manufacturer commercial co-pay assistance programs. Further, government regulation of payers may affect these trends. For example, CMS finalized a policy for plan years starting on or after January 1, 2021 that has caused commercial payers to more widely adopt co-pay accumulator adjustment programs. Payers, including PBMs, have sought, and continue to seek, price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies or those they manage, and to also impose restrictions on access to or usage of our products (such as Step Therapy), require that patients receive the payer’s prior authorization before covering the product, and/or chosen to exclude certain indications for which our products are approved. For example, some payers require physicians to demonstrate or document that the patients for whom Repatha has been prescribed meet their utilization criteria, and these requirements have served to limit and may continue to limit patient access to Repatha treatment. In an effort to reduce barriers to access, we reduced the net price of Repatha by providing greater discounts and rebates to payers (including PBMs that administer Medicare Part D prescription drug plans), and in response to a very high percentage of Medicare patients abandoning their Repatha prescriptions rather than paying their co-pay, we introduced a set of new National Drug Codes to make Repatha available at a lower list price. However, affordability of patient out-of-pocket co-pay cost has limited and may continue to limit patient use. Further, despite these net and list price reductions, some payers have restricted, and may continue to restrict, patient access and may seek further discounts or rebates or take other actions, such as changing formulary coverage for Repatha, that could reduce our sales of Repatha. These factors have limited, and may continue to limit, patient affordability and use, negatively affecting Repatha sales. Further, significant consolidation in the health insurance industry has resulted in a few large insurers and PBMs, which places greater pressure on pricing and usage negotiations with biopharmaceutical manufacturers, significantly increasing discount and rebate requirements and limiting patient access and usage. For example, in the United States, as of the beginning of 2023, the top five integrated health plans and PBMs controlled about 92% of all pharmacy prescriptions. This high degree of 34 consolidation among insurers and PBMs and other payers, including through integrated healthcare delivery systems and/or with specialty or mail-order pharmacies and pharmacy retailers, has increased the negotiating leverage such entities have over us and other biopharmaceutical manufacturers and has resulted in greater price discounts, rebates and service fees realized by those payers from our business. Each of CVS, Express Scripts and United Health Group (among the top five integrated health plans and PBMs), each have Rebate Management Organizations that further increase their leverage to negotiate deeper discounts. Ultimately, additional discounts, rebates, fees, coverage changes, plan changes, restrictions or exclusions imposed by these commercial payers could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Policy reforms advanced by Congress or the Administration that refine the role of PBMs in the U.S. marketplace could have downstream implications or consequences for our business and how we interact with these entities. For example, on June 7, 2022, the FTC launched an inquiry into the business practices of PBMs, and the results of such inquiry could have an effect on manufacturer interactions with PBMs, resulting in changes to access for certain medicines. See our — Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of private payers may negatively affect our business. Our business is also affected by policies implemented by private healthcare entities that process Medicare claims, including Medicare Administrative Contractors. For example, in the second quarter of 2022, several Medicare Administrative Contractors issued notice, in contravention of TEZSPIRE’s FDA approved labeling, that TEZSPIRE would be added to their “self-administered drug” exclusion lists. Although the Medicare Administrative Contractors subsequently removed TEZSPIRE from their exclusion lists, these exclusions, if reintroduced and/or implemented, would result in Medicare beneficiaries with severe asthma losing access to TEZSPIRE coverage under Medicare Part B and potentially also under Medicare Advantage. —Government and commercial payer actions outside the United States have affected and will continue to affect access to and sales of our products Outside the United States, we expect countries will also continue to take actions to reduce their drug expenditures. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Reimbursement. Pressures to decrease drug expenditures may further intensify as the COVID-19 pandemic has strained government budgets and as economic conditions continue to worsen in certain regions, including in Europe where high inflation and the energy crisis relating to the Russia–Ukraine conflict are challenging the economies in that region. International reference pricing has been widely used by many countries outside the United States to control costs based on an external benchmark of a product’s price in other countries. International reference pricing policies can change quickly and frequently and may not reflect differences in the burden of disease, indications, market structures or affordability differences across countries or regions. Other expenditure control practices, including but not limited to the use of revenue clawbacks, rebates and percentage caps on price increases, are used in various foreign jurisdictions as well. In addition, countries may refuse to reimburse or may restrict the reimbursed population for a product when their national health technology assessments do not consider a medicine to demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit beyond existing therapies or to meet certain cost effectiveness thresholds. For example, despite the EMA’s approval of Repatha for the treatment of patients with established atherosclerotic disease, prior to 2020, the reimbursement of Repatha in France was limited to a narrower patient population (such as those with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH)) following a national health technology assessment. Many countries decide on reimbursement between potentially competing products through national or regional tenders that often result in one product receiving most or all of the sales in that country or region. Failure to obtain coverage and reimbursement for our products, a deterioration in their existing coverage and reimbursement or a decline in the timeliness or certainty of payment by payers to physicians and other providers has negatively affected, and may further negatively affect, the ability or willingness of healthcare providers to prescribe our products for their patients and otherwise negatively affect the use of our products or the prices we realize for them. Such changes have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our products. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. Professional societies, practice management groups, insurance carriers, physicians’ groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases also publish guidelines and recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators and payers, as well as patient communities. Recommendations by government agencies or other groups and organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of related therapies. In addition, a growing number of organizations are providing assessments of the value and pricing of biopharmaceutical products, and even organizations whose guidelines have historically been focused on clinical matters have begun to incorporate analyses of the cost effectiveness of various treatments into their treatment guidelines and recommendations. Value assessments may come from private organizations that publish their findings and offer recommendations relating to the products’ reimbursement by government and private payers. Some companies and payers have announced pricing and payment decisions based in part on the assessments of private organizations. In addition, government health technology assessment organizations in many countries make reimbursement recommendations to payers in their jurisdictions based on the clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and service effects of new, emerging and existing medicines and treatments. Such health technology assessment organizations have 35 recommended, and may in the future recommend, reimbursement for certain of our products for a narrower indication than was approved by applicable regulatory agencies or may recommend against reimbursement entirely. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Such recommendations or guidelines may affect our reputation, and any recommendations or guidelines that result in decreased use, dosage or reimbursement of our products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, the perception by the investment community or stockholders that such recommendations or guidelines will result in decreased use and dosage of our products could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we do business. As a result, our provision for income taxes is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places we operate. Significant judgment is required for determining our provision for income tax. One or more of our legal entities file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various U.S. state jurisdictions and certain foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax returns are routinely examined by tax authorities in those jurisdictions. Significant disputes can and have arisen with tax authorities involving issues regarding the timing and amount of deductions, the use of tax credits and allocations of income and expenses among various tax jurisdictions because of differing interpretations of tax laws, regulations and relevant facts, and such tax authorities (including the IRS) are becoming more aggressive in their audits and are particularly focused on such matters. In 2017, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2010–2012, proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS administrative appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2021, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest two duplicate Statutory Notices of Deficiency (Notices) for the years 2010–2012 that we received in May and July 2021 which seek to increase our U.S. taxable income for the years 2010–2012. In 2020, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2013–2015, also proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico similar to those proposed for the years 2010–2012. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2022, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest a Notice for the years 2013–2015 that we previously reported receiving in April 2022 that seeks to increase our U.S. taxable income for the years 2013–2015 and asserts penalties. We firmly believe that the IRS positions set forth in the 2010–2012 and 2013–2015 Notices are without merit. We are contesting the 2010–2012 and 2013–2015 Notices through the judicial process. The cases were consolidated on December 19, 2022. We are currently also under examination by the IRS for the years 2016–2018 with respect to issues similar to those for the 2010 through 2015 period. In addition, we are under examination by a number of state and foreign tax jurisdictions. Final resolution of these complex tax matters is not likely within the next 12 months. We continue to believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, application of the tax law to our facts and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes and uncertain resolution of these matters, the ultimate outcome of any tax matters may result in payments substantially greater than amounts accrued and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations, Income Taxes, and Part IV—Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our provision for income taxes and results of operations in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of income and expenses in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in applicable tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations thereof. The 2017 Tax Act is complex and a large volume of regulations and guidance has been issued and could be subject to different interpretations. We could face audit challenges to our application of the 2017 Tax Act. In addition, there are several upcoming provisions in the 2017 Tax Act, including increases in the tax rates on foreign earnings and export income scheduled to take effect at the end of 2025, that could result in an increase in our effective tax rate. The Administration and Congress continue to discuss changes to existing tax law that could substantially increase the taxes we pay in the United States. Further, the OECD reached an agreement to align countries on a minimum corporate tax rate and an expansion of the taxing rights of market countries. Some individual countries, including those in the EU, have proposed 36 legislation to implement the global minimum tax agreement. In other countries such as the United States, however, the implementation of the OECD agreement remains highly uncertain. If enacted, either by all OECD participants or unilaterally by individual countries, the agreement could result in tax increases or double taxation that could affect our United States or foreign tax liabilities. Changes to existing tax law in the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico or other jurisdictions, including the changes and potential changes discussed above, could result in tax increases where we do business and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Our business may be affected by litigation and government investigations. We and certain of our subsidiaries are involved in legal proceedings. See Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Civil and criminal litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome can result in costly verdicts, fines and penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. Defense of litigation claims can be expensive, time consuming and distracting, and it is possible that we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or change the way we operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, product liability is a major risk in testing and marketing biotechnology and pharmaceutical products. We may face substantial product liability exposure in human clinical trials and for products we sell after regulatory approval. Product liability claims, regardless of their merits, could be costly and divert management’s attention and could adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our products. We and certain of our subsidiaries have previously been named as defendants in product liability actions for certain of our products. We are also involved in government investigations that arise in the ordinary course of our business. In recent years, there has been a trend of increasing government investigations and litigations against companies operating in our industry, both in the United States and around the world. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. Our business activities outside of the United States are subject to the FCPA and similar antibribery or anticorruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act. We cannot ensure that all our employees, agents, contractors, vendors, licensees, partners or collaborators will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. On April 25, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with the DOJ and the OIG of the HHS to settle certain allegations relating to our support of independent charitable organizations that provide patients with financial assistance to access their medicines. As a result, we entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the OIG that requires us to maintain a corporate compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years. While we expect to fully comply with all of our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement, failure to do so could result in substantial penalties and potential exclusion from government healthcare programs. We may also see new government investigations of or actions against us citing novel theories of recovery. For example, prosecutors are placing greater scrutiny on patient support programs, including commercial copay assistance programs, and further enforcement actions and investigations regarding such programs could limit our ability to provide co-pay assistance to commercial patients. Greater scrutiny has also been placed on sponsorships, speaker programs and other arrangements where healthcare professionals receive remuneration, travel or other value to participate in certain events, and further enforcement actions could limit our ability to participate in such arrangements. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO COMPETITION Our products face substantial competition and our product candidates are also likely to face substantial competition. We operate in a highly competitive environment. See Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Competition. We expect that our products and product candidates will compete with existing drugs, new drugs currently in development, drugs currently approved for other indications that may later be approved for the same indications as those of our products and drugs approved for other indications that are used off-label. Large pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers of pharmaceutical products have expanded into, and are expected to continue expanding into, the biotechnology field, and some pharmaceutical companies and generics manufacturers have formed partnerships to pursue biosimilars. With the proliferation of companies pursuing biopharmaceuticals, several of our biosimilar products have entered, and a number of our product candidates may enter, markets with one or more competitors or with competitors soon to arrive. In addition, some of our competitors may have technical, competitive or other advantages over us for the development of technologies and processes or greater experience in particular therapeutic areas, and consolidation among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can enhance such advantages. These advantages may make it difficult for us to compete with them successfully to discover, develop and market new products and for our current products to compete with new products or new product indications they may bring to market. As a result, our products have been competing and may continue to compete, and our product candidates may compete, against products or product candidates that offer higher rebates or discounts, lower prices, equivalent or superior efficacy, better safety profiles, easier administration, earlier market availability or other competitive 37 features. If we are unable to compete effectively, this could reduce our sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in current and future intellectual property litigation. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and defend patent rights and other intellectual property rights that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and often involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Driven by cost pressures, efforts to limit or weaken patent protection for our industry are increasing. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in increased interest in compulsory licenses, march-in rights or other governmental interventions, both in the United States and internationally, related to the procurement of drugs, and the World Trade Organization has agreed to a waiver of COVID-19 vaccine intellectual property protections through the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights waiver process. See The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, manufacturing, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. Third parties have challenged and may continue to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies. Challenges to patents may come from potential competitors or from parties other than those who seek to market a potentially-infringing product. In addition, our patent positions might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technologies because competing products or technologies may not infringe our patents. For certain of our product candidates, there are third parties who have patents or pending patent applications that they may claim necessitate payment of a royalty or prevent us from commercializing these product candidates in certain territories. Patent disputes are frequent, costly and can preclude, delay or increase the cost of commercialization of products. We have been in the past, are currently and expect to be in the future, involved in patent litigation. These matters have included, and may in the future include, litigation with manufacturers of products that purport to be biosimilars of certain of our products for patent infringement and for failure to comply with certain provisions of the BPCIA. A determination made by a court, agency or tribunal concerning infringement, validity, enforceability, injunctive or economic remedy, or the right to patent protection, for example, are typically subject to appellate or administrative review. Upon review, such initial determinations may be afforded little or no deference by the reviewing tribunal and may be affirmed, reversed or made the subject of reconsideration through further proceedings. A patent dispute or litigation has not discouraged, and may not in the future discourage, a potential violator from bringing the allegedly infringing product to market prior to a final resolution of the dispute or litigation. The period from inception until resolution of a patent dispute or litigation is subject to the availability and schedule of the court, agency or tribunal before which the dispute or litigation is pending. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to competition during this period and may not be able to recover fully from the losses, damages and harms we incur from infringement by the competitor product even if we prevail. Moreover, if we lose or settle current or future litigations at certain stages or entirely, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, be required to enter into third-party licenses for the infringed product or technology or be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, we cannot guarantee that such licenses will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Further, under the Hatch–Waxman Act, our products approved by the FDA under the FDCA have been, and may in the future be, the subject of patent litigation with generics competitors before expiry of the five-year period of data exclusivity provided for under the Hatch-Waxman Act and prior to the expiration of the patents listed for the product. Likewise, our innovative biologic products have been, and may in the future be, the subject of patent litigation prior to the expiration of our patents and, with respect to competitors seeking approval as a biosimilar or interchangeable version of our products, prior to the 12-year exclusivity period provided under the BPCIA. In addition, we have faced, and may in the future face, patent litigation involving claims that the biosimilar product candidates we are working to develop infringe the patents of other companies, including those that manufacture, market or sell the applicable reference products or who are developing or have developed other biosimilar versions of such products. Alternatively, patents held by other entities have contributed, and may in the future contribute, to a decision by us to not pursue all of the same labeled indications as are held by these companies. While we have attempted, and expect to continue to attempt, to challenge the patents held by other companies, our efforts may be unsuccessful. For examples of and information related to our patent litigation, see Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain of the existing patents on our products have expired or will soon expire. See Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Patents. As our patents expire, competitors are able to legally produce and market similar products or technologies, including biosimilars, which has had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. In addition, competitors have been, and may continue to be, able to invalidate, design around or otherwise circumvent our patents and sell competing products. 38 We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future. We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics in most of the territories in which we operate, including the United States and Europe, and we expect to face increasing biosimilar and/or generics competition this year and beyond. Expiration or successful challenge of applicable patent rights or expiration of an applicable exclusivity period has accelerated such competition, and we expect to face more litigation regarding the validity and/or scope of our patents. Our products have also experienced greater competition from lower cost biosimilars or generics that come to market when branded products that compete with our products lose their own patent protection. To the extent that governments adopt more permissive regulatory approval standards and competitors are able to obtain broader or expedited marketing approval for biosimilars and generics, the rate of increased competition for our products could accelerate. In the EU, biosimilars are evaluated for marketing authorization pursuant to a set of general and product class-specific guidelines. In addition, in an effort to spur biosimilar utilization and/or increase potential healthcare savings, some EU countries and some Canadian provinces have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, biosimilar uptake measures such as physician prescribing quotas or automatic pharmacy substitution of biosimilars for the corresponding reference products. Some EU countries impose automatic price reductions upon market entry of one or more biosimilar competitors. In September 2022, the EMA and the EU Heads of Medicines’ Agencies (HMA) issued a joint statement providing that biosimilar medicines approved in the EU are “interchangeable” with their reference products and other biosimilars of the same reference product. This EMA-HMA statement could further contribute to the prescribing of biosimilars and to greater competition in Europe. While the degree of competitive effects of biosimilar competition differs between EU countries and between products, in the EU the overall use of biosimilars and the rate at which product sales of innovative products are being affected by biosimilar competition is increasing. In the United States, the BPCIA authorizes the FDA to approve biosimilars via a separate, abbreviated pathway. See Item 1. Business—Government Regulation—Regulation in the United States—Approval of Biosimilars. In the United States, the FDA has approved numerous biosimilars, including biosimilar versions of Neulasta, EPOGEN and ENBREL, and a growing number of companies have announced that they are also developing biosimilar versions of our products. For example, six biosimilar versions of Neulasta are now approved in the United States, and we expect that other biosimilar versions of Neulasta may be marketed or receive approval in the future. Impact to our Neulasta sales has accelerated as additional competitors have launched. See Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Competition. Manufacturers of biosimilars have attempted, and may in the future attempt, to compete with our products by offering lower list prices, greater discounts or rebates, or contracts that offer longer-term pricing or a broader portfolio of other products. Companies pursuing development of biosimilar versions of our products have challenged and may continue to challenge our patents well in advance of the expiration of our material patents. For examples of and information related to our biosimilars and generics patent litigation, see Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Our intellectual property positions may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or we may fail to prevail in current and future intellectual property litigation. The U.S. biosimilar pathway includes the option for biosimilar products that meet certain criteria to be approved as interchangeable with their reference products. Some companies currently developing or already marketing biosimilars may seek to obtain interchangeable status from the FDA, which could potentially allow pharmacists to substitute those biosimilars for our reference products without prior approval from the prescriber in most states under state law. The FDA approved the first interchangeable biosimilar in 2021 and has subsequently granted interchangeability designations to three additional biosimilars. In 2019, the FDA issued draft guidance that provides that comparative immunogenicity studies will not generally be expected for biosimilar and interchangeable insulin products. This has opened the door for other product-specific guidance development and the removal of the expectation for certain studies, which may contribute to increased biosimilar competition for our innovative products. For example, in August 2022, the FDA designated a monoclonal antibody biosimilar as interchangeable without requiring a switching study to support the interchangeability determination. Further, in September 2022, the FDA indicated that while comparative clinical trials will continue to be a requirement for many biosimilar development programs, the agency is focused on reducing the need for them in the future through a range of statistical, analytical and pharmacologic approaches. In addition, critics of the 12-year exclusivity period in the biosimilar pathway law will likely continue to seek to shorten the data exclusivity period and/or to encourage the FDA to interpret narrowly the law’s provisions regarding which new products receive data exclusivity. In 2019, the Administration agreed to remove from the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement a requirement for at least 10 years of data exclusivity for biologic products. Also, the FDA is considering whether subsequent changes to a licensed biologic would be protected by the remainder of the reference product’s original 12-year exclusivity period (a concept known in the generic drug context as “umbrella exclusivity”). If the FDA were to decide that umbrella exclusivity does not apply to biological reference products or were to make other changes to the exclusivity period, 39 this could expose us to biosimilar competition at an earlier time. There also have been, and may continue to be, legislative and regulatory efforts to promote competition through policies enabling easier generic and biosimilar approval and commercialization, including efforts to lower standards for demonstrating biosimilarity or interchangeability, limit patents that may be litigated and/or patent settlements, implement preferential reimbursement policies for biosimilars and pass new laws requiring more disclosure in the FDA’s Orange and Purple Books. For example, in 2021 the FDA sent a letter to the USPTO describing ways to strengthen coordination between the two agencies, offered training to help identify prior art, and seeking USPTO’s views on practices that extend market exclusivities, whether pharmaceutical patent examiners need additional resources, and the effect of post-grant challenges at the Patent Trial and Appeal Board on drug patents. The USPTO responded in July 2022 with a letter to the FDA stating that it is prepared to create formal mechanisms to collaborate with the FDA on patent issues that may affect the timing of generic and biosimilar entry. In January 2023, the USPTO held a joint listening session with the FDA on USPTO-FDA collaboration efforts. Upon the expiration or loss of patent protection and/or applicable exclusivity for one of our products, we can lose the majority of revenues for that product in a very short period of time. See Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Competition. Additionally, if one of our products is the subject of an FDA Written Request for pediatric studies and we are unable to adequately complete these studies, we may not obtain the pediatric exclusivity award that extends unexpired regulatory exclusivity for the product (and existing patents for a small molecule product) by an additional six months. While we are unable to predict the precise effects of biosimilars and generics on our products, we are currently facing and expect to face greater competition in the United States, Europe and elsewhere as a result of biosimilar and generic competition and, in turn, downward pressure on our product prices and sales. This competition has had, and could increasingly have, a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. State laws may also have an impact on our business. For example, California is the first state to have passed legislation, effective on January 1, 2020, against “pay for delay” settlements of patent infringement claims filed by manufacturers of generics or biosimilars where anything of value is given in exchange for settlement. Under this law, such settlement agreements are presumptively anticompetitive. The law may result in prolonged litigation and fewer settlements. Other states, including Connecticut, New York, Illinois and Minnesota, may adopt similar laws or a similar law could be adopted at the federal level. Concentration of sales at certain of our wholesaler distributors and consolidation of private payers may negatively affect our business. Certain of our distributors, customers and payers have substantial purchasing leverage, due to the volume of our products they purchase or the number of patient lives for which they provide coverage. The substantial majority of our U.S. product sales is made to three pharmaceutical product wholesaler distributors: McKesson Corporation, AmerisourceBergen Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc. These distributors, in turn, sell our products to their customers, which include physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. Similarly, as discussed above, there has been significant consolidation in the health insurance industry, including that a small number of PBMs now oversee a substantial percentage of total covered lives in the United States. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. The three largest PBMs in the United States are now part of major health insurance providers. The growing concentration of purchasing and negotiating power by these entities has, and may continue to, put pressure on our pricing due to their ability to extract price discounts on our products, fees for other services or rebates, negatively affecting our bargaining position, sales and/or profit margins. In addition, decisions by these entities to purchase or cover less or none of our products in favor of competing products could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations due to their purchasing volume. Further, if one of our significant wholesale distributors encounters financial or other difficulties and becomes unable or unwilling to pay us all amounts that such distributor owes us on a timely basis, or at all, it could negatively affect our business and results of operations. In addition, if one of our significant wholesale distributors becomes insolvent or otherwise unable to continue its commercial relationship with us in its present form, it could significantly disrupt our business and adversely affect our product sales, our business and results of operations unless suitable alternatives are timely found or lost sales are absorbed by another distributor. 40 RISKS RELATED TO RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We may not be able to develop commercial products despite significant investments in R&D. Amgen invests heavily in R&D. Successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain, and very few R&D projects yield approved and commercially viable products. Product candidates, including biosimilar product candidates, or new indications for existing products (collectively, product candidates) that appear promising in the early phases of development have failed to reach the market for a number of reasons, such as: • the product candidate did not demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results even though it achieved its primary endpoints and/or demonstrated positive preclinical or early clinical trial results, for reasons that could include changes in the standard of care of medicine or expectations of health authorities; • the product candidate was not effective or not more effective than currently available or potentially competitive therapies in treating a specified condition or illness; • the product candidate was not cost effective in light of existing or potentially competitive therapeutics; • the product candidate had harmful side effects in animals or humans; • the necessary regulatory bodies, such as the FDA or EMA, did not approve the product candidate for an intended use; • reimbursement for the product candidate is limited despite regulatory approval; • the product candidate was not economical for us to manufacture and commercialize; • other parties had or may have had proprietary rights relating to our product candidate, such as patent rights, and did not let us sell it on reasonable terms, or at all; • we and certain of our licensees, partners, contracted organizations or independent investigators failed to effectively conduct clinical development or clinical manufacturing activities; • the pathway to regulatory approval or reimbursement for product candidates was uncertain or not well-defined; • the biosimilar product candidate failed to demonstrate the requisite biosimilarity to the applicable reference product, or was otherwise determined by a regulatory authority to not meet applicable standards for approval; and • a companion diagnostic device that is required with the use of a product candidate is not approved by the necessary regulatory authority. We have spent considerable time, energy and resources developing our expertise in human genetics and acquiring access to libraries of genetic information with the belief that genetics could meaningfully aid our search for new medicines and help guide our R&D decisions and investments. We have focused our R&D strategy on drug targets validated by genetic or other compelling human evidence. However, product candidates based on genetically validated targets remain subject to the uncertainties of the drug development process and may not reach the market for a number of reasons, including the factors listed above. We must conduct clinical trials in humans before we commercialize and sell any of our product candidates or existing products for new indications. Before a product may be sold, we must conduct clinical trials to demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in humans. The results of those clinical trials are used as the basis to obtain approval from regulatory authorities such as the FDA and EMA. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval . We are required to conduct clinical trials using an appropriate number of trial sites and patients to support the product label claims. The length of time, number of trial sites and number of patients required for clinical trials vary substantially, and we may spend several years and incur substantial expense in completing certain clinical trials. In addition, we may have difficulty finding a sufficient number of clinical trial sites and/or patients to participate in our clinical trials, particularly if competitors are conducting clinical trials in similar patient populations. See The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. Patients may withdraw from clinical trials at any time, and privacy laws and/or other restrictions in certain countries may restrict the ability of clinical trial investigators to conduct further follow-up on such patients, which may adversely affect the interpretation of study results. Delays and complications in 41 planned clinical trials can result in increased development costs, associated delays in regulatory approvals and in product candidates reaching the market and revisions to existing product labels. Further, to increase the number of patients available for enrollment in our clinical trials, we have opened, and will continue to open, clinical sites and enroll patients in a number of locations where our experience conducting clinical trials is more limited, including India, China, South Korea, the Philippines, Singapore and some Central and South American countries, either through utilization of third-party contract clinical trial providers entirely or in combination with local staff. Conducting clinical trials in locations where we have limited experience requires substantial time and resources to understand the unique regulatory environments of individual countries. For other examples of the risks of conducting clinical trials in China, see also Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets . Further, we must ensure the timely production, distribution and delivery of the clinical supply of our product candidates to numerous and varied clinical trial sites. Additionally, regional disruptions, including natural and man-made disasters, health emergencies (such as novel viruses or pandemics such as the one we are currently experiencing with COVID-19), or geopolitical conflicts (such as the ongoing armed conflict in Ukraine) have significantly disrupted the timing of clinical trials, and in the future could disrupt the timing, execution and outcome of clinical trials. If we fail to adequately manage the design, execution and diverse regulatory aspects of our clinical trials or to manage the production or distribution of our clinical supply, or such sites experience disruptions as a result of a natural/man-made disaster, health emergency or geopolitical conflict, corresponding regulatory approvals may be delayed or we may fail to gain approval for our product candidates or could lose our ability to market existing products in certain therapeutic areas or altogether. For example, our clinical trials have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. See The COVID-19 pandemic, and the public and governmental effort to mitigate against the spread of the disease, have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse effect, and may have a material adverse effect, on our clinical trials, operations, supply chains, distribution systems, product development, product sales, business and results of operations. If we are unable to market and sell our products or product candidates or to obtain approvals in the timeframe needed to execute our product strategies, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on independent third-party clinical investigators to recruit patients and conduct clinical trials on our behalf in accordance with applicable study protocols, laws and regulations. Further, we rely on unaffiliated third-party vendors to perform certain aspects of our clinical trial operations. In some circumstances, we enter into co-development arrangements with other pharmaceutical and medical devices companies that provide for the other company to conduct certain clinical trials for the product we are co-developing or to develop a diagnostic test used in screening or monitoring patients in our clinical trials. See Some of our pharmaceutical pipeline and our commercial product sales rely on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sales of our products. We also may acquire companies that have past or ongoing clinical trials or rights to products or product candidates for which clinical trials have been or are being conducted. These trials may not have been conducted to the same standards as ours; however, once an acquisition has been completed we assume responsibility for the conduct of these trials, including any potential risks and liabilities associated with the past and prospective conduct of those trials. If regulatory authorities determine that we or others, including our licensees or co-development partners, or the independent investigators or vendors selected by us, our co-development partners or by a company we have acquired or from which we have acquired rights to a product or product candidate, have not complied with regulations applicable to the clinical trials, those authorities may refuse or reject some or all of the clinical trial data or take other actions that could delay or otherwise negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain marketing approval of the product or indication. In addition, delays or failures to develop diagnostic tests for our clinical trials can affect the timely enrollment of such trials and lead to delays or inability to obtain marketing approval. If we were unable to market and sell our products or product candidates, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some of our clinical trials utilize drugs manufactured and marketed by other pharmaceutical companies. These drugs may be administered in clinical trials in combination with one of our products or product candidates or in a head-to-head study comparing the products’ or product candidates’ relative efficacy and safety. In the event that any of these vendors or pharmaceutical companies have unforeseen issues that negatively affect the quality of their work product or create a shortage of supply, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain an adequate supply of these other drugs, our ability to complete our applicable clinical trials and/or evaluate clinical results may also be negatively affected. As a result, such quality or supply problems could adversely affect our ability to timely file for, gain or maintain regulatory approvals worldwide. Clinical trials must generally be designed based on the current standard of medical care. However, in certain diseases, such as cancer, the standard of care is evolving rapidly. In some cases, we may design a clinical trial based on the standard of care we anticipate will exist at the time our study is completed. The duration of time needed to complete certain clinical trials may result in the design of such clinical trials being based on standards of medical care that are no longer or that have not become the current standards by the time such trials are completed, limiting the utility and application of such trials. Additionally, the views of regulatory agencies relating to the requirements for accelerated approval may change over time, and trial designs that were sufficient to support accelerated approvals for some oncology products may not be considered sufficient 42 for later candidates. We may not obtain favorable clinical trial results and therefore may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for new product candidates or new indications for existing products and/or maintain our current product labels. Participants in clinical trials of our products and product candidates may also suffer adverse medical events or side effects that could, among other factors, delay or terminate clinical trial programs and/or require additional or longer trials to gain approval. Even after a product is on the market, safety concerns may require additional or more extensive clinical trials as part of a risk management plan for our product or for approval of a new indication. Additional clinical trials we initiate, including those required by the FDA, could result in substantial additional expense, and the outcomes could result in further label restrictions or the loss of regulatory approval for an approved indication, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Additionally, any negative results from such trials could materially affect the extent of approvals, the use, reimbursement and sales of our products, our business and results of operations. Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by numerous state and federal government authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by foreign regulatory authorities, including the EMA. We are required in the United States and in the other regions and countries in which we, or our partners and affiliates, sell to obtain approval from regulatory authorities before we manufacture, market and sell our products. Once our products are approved, the FDA and other U.S. and ex-U.S. regulatory agencies have substantial authority to require additional testing and reporting, perform inspections, change product labeling or mandate withdrawals of our products. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative and/or judicially imposed sanctions or monetary penalties as well as reputational and other harms. The sanctions could include the FDA’s or ex-U.S. regulatory authorities’ refusals to approve pending applications, delays in obtaining or withdrawals of approvals, delays or suspensions of clinical trials, warning letters, product recalls or seizures, total or partial suspensions of our operations, injunctions, fines, civil penalties and/or criminal prosecutions. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals have been, and will continue to be, increasingly difficult, time-consuming and costly. Legislative bodies or regulatory agencies could enact new laws or regulations, change existing laws or regulations or change their interpretations of laws or regulations at any time, which could affect our ability to obtain or maintain approval of our products or product candidates. The rate and degree of change in existing laws and regulations and regulatory expectations have accelerated in established markets, and regulatory expectations continue to evolve in emerging markets. We are unable to predict whether and when any further changes to laws or regulatory policies affecting our business could occur, such as changes to laws or regulations governing manufacturer communications concerning drug products and drug product candidates and whether such changes could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Further, we are reliant on regulators having the resources necessary to evaluate and approve our products. In the United States, a partial federal government shutdown halted the work of many federal agencies and their employees from late December 2018 through late January 2019. A subsequent extended shutdown could result in reductions or delays of FDA’s activities, including with respect to our ongoing clinical programs, our manufacturing of our products and product candidates and our product approvals. Regulatory authorities have questioned, and may in the future question, the sufficiency for approval of the endpoints we select for our clinical trials. A number of our products and product candidates have been evaluated in clinical trials using surrogate endpoints that measure an effect that is known to correlate with an ultimate clinical benefit. For example, a therapeutic oncology product candidate may be evaluated for its ability to reduce or eliminate minimal residual disease (MRD), or to extend the length of time during and after the treatment that a patient lives without the disease worsening, measured by PFS. Demonstrating that the product candidate induces MRD-negative responses or produces a statistically significant improvement in PFS does not necessarily mean that the product candidate will show a statistically significant improvement in overall survival or the time that the patients remain alive. In the CV setting, a heart disease therapeutic candidate may be evaluated for its ability to reduce LDL-C levels, as an elevated LDL-C level has been a surrogate endpoint for CV events such as death, heart attack and stroke. The use of surrogate endpoints such as PFS and LDL-C reduction, in the absence of other measures of clinical benefit, may not be sufficient for broad usage or approval even when such results are statistically significant. Regulatory authorities could also add new requirements, such as the completion of enrollment in a confirmatory study or the completion of an outcomes study or a meaningful portion of an outcomes study, as conditions for obtaining approval or obtaining an indication. For example, despite demonstrating that Repatha reduced LDL-C levels in a broad patient population, only after our large phase 3 outcomes study evaluating the ability of Repatha to prevent CV events met certain of its primary composite endpoint and key secondary composite endpoint did the FDA grant a broader approval of Repatha to reduce the risk of certain CV events. There may also be situations in which demonstrating the efficacy and safety of a product candidate may not be sufficient to gain regulatory approval unless superiority to other existing treatment options can be shown. The imposition of additional requirements or our inability to meet them in a timely fashion, or at all, has delayed, and may in the future delay, our clinical development and regulatory filing efforts, delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for new product candidates or new indications for existing products, or prevent us from maintaining our current product labels. 43 Some of our products have been approved by U.S. and ex-U.S. regulatory authorities on an accelerated or conditional basis with full approval conditioned upon fulfilling the requirements of regulators. For example, in May 2021, we announced that the FDA approved LUMAKRAS under accelerated approval for the treatment of adult patients with KRAS G12C-mutated local advanced or metastatic NSCLC, as determined by an FDA-approved test, who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. Continued approval for this indication is contingent upon verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory trials, including a requirement by the FDA that we complete a post-marketing trial to investigate whether a lower dose will have a similar clinical effect to the results demonstrated in our pre-marketing trial. We have since received the data from such post-marketing trial and intend to submit it to the FDA, as required. Regulatory authorities are placing greater focus on monitoring products originally approved on an accelerated or conditional basis and on whether the sponsors of such products have met the conditions of the accelerated or conditional approvals. If we are unable to fulfill the regulators’ requirements that were conditions of a product’s accelerated or conditional approval and/or if regulators reevaluate the data or risk-benefit profile of our product, the conditional approval may not result in full approval or may be revoked or not renewed. Alternatively, we may be required to change the product’s labeled indications or even withdraw the product from the market. Regulatory authorities can also impose post-marketing pediatric study requirements. Failure to fulfill such requirements may result in regulatory or enforcement action, including financial penalties or the invalidation of a product’s marketing authorization. Safety problems or signals can arise as our products and product candidates are evaluated in clinical trials, including investigator sponsored studies, or as our marketed products are used in clinical practice. We are required continuously to collect and assess adverse events reported to us and to communicate to regulatory agencies these adverse events and safety signals regarding our products. Regulatory agencies periodically perform inspections of our pharmacovigilance processes, including our adverse event reporting. In the United States, for our products with approved REMS (see Item 1. Business—Government Regulation—Postapproval Phase), we are required to submit periodic assessment reports to the FDA to demonstrate that the goals of the REMS are being met. REMS and other risk management programs are designed to help ensure that a drug’s benefits outweigh the risks and vary in the elements they contain. If the FDA is not satisfied with the results of the periodic assessment reports we submit for any of our REMS, the FDA may also modify our REMS or take other regulatory actions, such as implementing revised or restrictive labeling. The drug delivery devices approved for use in combination with our products are also subject to regulatory oversight and review for safety and malfunctions. See Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices that have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. If regulatory agencies determine that we or other parties (including our clinical trial investigators, those operating our patient support programs or licensees of our products) have not complied with the applicable reporting, other pharmacovigilance or other safety or quality assessment requirements, we may become subject to additional inspections, warning letters or other enforcement actions, including fines, marketing authorization withdrawal and other penalties. Our product candidates and marketed products can also be affected by safety problems or signals occurring with respect to products that are similar to ours or that implicate an entire class of products. Further, as a result of clinical trials, including sub-analyses or meta-analyses of earlier clinical trials (a meta-analysis involves the use of various statistical methods to combine results from previous separate but related studies) performed by us or others, concerns may arise about the sufficiency of the data or studies underlying a product’s approved label. Such actual or perceived safety problems or concerns can lead to: • revised or restrictive labeling for our products, or the potential for restrictive labeling that has resulted, and may in the future result, in our decision not to commercialize a product candidate; • requirement of risk management or minimization activities or other regulatory agency compliance actions related to the promotion and sale of our products; • post-marketing commitments, mandated post-marketing requirements or pharmacovigilance programs for our approved products; • product recalls of our approved products; • required changes to the processes used in the manufacture of our products, which could increase our manufacturing costs and affect the availability of contract manufacturers we may utilize to assist in such manufacturing; • revocation of approval for our products from the market completely, or within particular therapeutic areas or patient types; • increased timelines or delays in being approved by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; and/or • treatments or product candidates not being approved by regulatory bodies. For example, after an imbalance in positively adjudicated CV serious adverse events was observed in one of the phase 3 clinical trials for EVENITY but not in another, larger phase 3 study, in April 2019 the FDA approved EVENITY for the 44 treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women at high risk for fracture, along with a post-marketing requirement. The requirement includes a five-year observational feasibility study that could be followed by a comparative safety study or trial. In addition to our innovative products, we are working to develop and commercialize biosimilar versions of a number of products currently manufactured, marketed and sold by other pharmaceutical companies. In some markets, there is not yet a legislative or regulatory pathway for the approval of biosimilars. In the United States, the BPCIA provided for such a pathway. Discussions within the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and between regulatory authorities and sponsors, continue as to the evidence needed to demonstrate biosimilarity or interchangeability for specific products. See We currently face competition from biosimilars and generics and expect to face increasing competition from biosimilars and generics in the future. Delays or uncertainties in the development or implementation of such pathways, or changes in existing regulatory pathways, including degradation of regulatory standards, could result in delays or difficulties in getting our biosimilar products approved by regulatory authorities, subject us to unanticipated development costs or otherwise reduce the value of the investments we have made in the biosimilars area. Further, we cannot predict the extent to which any potential legislative or policy initiatives would affect the biosimilar pathway or have a material adverse effect on our development of biosimilars or on our marketed biosimilars. In addition, if we are unable to bring our biosimilar products to market on a timely basis and secure “first-to-market” or other advantageous positions, our future biosimilar sales, business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our products are used with drug delivery or companion diagnostic devices that have their own regulatory, manufacturing and other risks. Many of our products and product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, such as an injector or other delivery system. For example, Neulasta is available as part of the Neulasta Onpro kit, and our AutoTouch reusable autoinjector is used with ENBREL Mini single-dose prefilled cartridges. In addition, some of our products or product candidates, including many of our oncology product candidates and products, including LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS and bemarituzumab, may also require the use of a companion or other diagnostic device such as a device that determines whether the patient is eligible to use our drug or that helps ensure its safe and effective use. In some regions, including the United States, regulatory authorities may require contemporaneous approval of the companion diagnostic device and the therapeutic product; in others the regulatory authorities may require a separate study of the companion diagnostic device. Our product candidates or expanded indications of our products used with such devices may not be approved or may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval if development or approval of such devices is delayed, such devices do not also gain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance, or if such devices do not remain commercially available. When approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing drug application, the increased complexity of the review process may delay receipt of regulatory approval. In addition, some of these devices may be provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party companies. We are dependent on the sustained cooperation and effort of those third-party companies to supply and/or market the devices and, in some cases, to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies. We are also dependent on those third-party companies continuing to meet applicable regulatory or other requirements. Failure to successfully develop, modify, or supply the devices, delays in or failures of the Amgen or third-party studies, or failure of us or the third-party companies to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs; delays in, or failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approval; and/or associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market or in the addition of new indications for existing products. We are also required to collect and assess user complaints, adverse events and malfunctions regarding our devices, and actual or perceived safety problems or concerns with a device used with our product can lead to regulatory actions and adverse effects on our products. See Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval . Additionally, regulatory agencies conduct routine monitoring and inspections to identify and evaluate potential issues with our devices. For example, in 2017, the FDA reported on its adverse event reporting system that it was evaluating our Neulasta Onpro kit. Subsequently, we implemented device and labeling enhancements to address product complaints received on this device. We continuously monitor complaints and adverse events and implement additional enhancements as needed. Loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. Further, failure to successfully develop, supply, or gain or maintain approval for these devices could adversely affect sales of the related approved products. Some of our pharmaceutical pipeline and our commercial product sales rely on collaborations with third parties, which may adversely affect the development and sales of our products. We depend on alliances with other companies, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, vendors and service providers, for the development of a portion of the products in our pharmaceutical pipeline and for the commercialization and sales of certain of our commercial products. For example, we have collaborations with third parties under which we share development rights, obligations and costs and/or commercial rights and obligations. See Item 1. Business—Business Relationships. 45 Failures by these parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, or other obligations to us or any disruption in the relationships between us and these third parties, could have a material adverse effect on our pharmaceutical pipeline and business. In addition, our collaborative relationships for R&D and/or commercialization and sales often extend for many years and have given, and may in the future give, rise to disputes regarding the relative rights, obligations and revenues of us and our collaboration partners, including the ownership or prosecution of intellectual property and associated rights and obligations. This could result in the loss of intellectual property rights or protection, delay the development and sale of potential pharmaceutical products, affect the sale and delivery of our commercialized products and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation, administrative proceedings or arbitration. Our efforts to collaborate with or acquire other companies, products, or technology, and to integrate the operations of companies or to support the products or technology we have acquired, may not be successful, and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or failures to realize the benefits of the transactions. We seek innovation through significant investment in both internal R&D and external transactions, including collaborations, partnerships, alliances, licenses, joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions (collectively, acquisition activity). Acquisition activities may be subject to regulatory approvals or other requirements that are not within our control. There can be no assurance that such regulatory or other approvals will be obtained or that all closing conditions required in connection with our acquisition activities will be satisfied or waived, which could result in us being unable to complete the planned acquisition activities. In addition, antitrust scrutiny by regulatory agencies and changes to regulatory approval process in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions may cause approvals to take longer than anticipated to obtain, not be obtained at all, or contain burdensome conditions, which may jeopardize, delay or reduce the anticipated benefits of acquisitions to us and could impede the execution of our business strategy. Acquisition activities are complex, time consuming and expensive and may result in unanticipated costs, delays or other operational or financial problems related to integrating the acquired company and business with our company, which may divert our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities and restrict the full realization of the anticipated benefits of such transactions within the expected timeframe or at all. We may pay substantial amounts of cash, incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for acquisition activities, which could adversely affect our liquidity or result in dilution to our stockholders, respectively. Further, failures or difficulties in integrating or retaining new personnel or in integrating the operations of the businesses, products or assets we acquire (including related technology, commercial operations, compliance programs, manufacturing, distribution and general business operations and procedures and ESG activities) may affect our ability to realize the benefits of the transaction and grow our business and may result in us incurring asset impairment or restructuring charges. These and other challenges may arise in connection with our acquisitions of Otezla, Five Prime, Teneobio, ChemoCentryx, Horizon and/or our collaborations with BeiGene and KKC, or with other acquisition activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price. RISKS RELATED TO OPERATIONS We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; significant disruptions or production failures at these facilities could significantly impair our ability to supply our products or continue our clinical trials. The global supply of our products and product candidates for commercial sales and for use in our clinical trials is significantly dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities, in particular those in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and Thousand Oaks, California. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. We currently perform a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing that supports our product candidates at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California. A substantial disruption in our ability to operate our Thousand Oaks manufacturing facility could materially and adversely affect our ability to supply our product candidates for use in our clinical trials, leading to delays in development of our product candidates. In addition, we currently perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. In recent years, Puerto Rico has been affected by a number of natural disasters, including Hurricane Maria (2017), earthquakes (2020) and Hurricane Fiona (2022). These natural disasters have affected, and may continue to affect, public and private properties and Puerto Rico’s electric grid and communications networks. While the critical manufacturing areas of our commercial manufacturing facility were not significantly affected by these natural disasters, the restoration of electrical service on the island after Hurricane Maria was a slow process, and our facility relied on backup diesel powered generators for some time. We also operated on backup generators for a few weeks after the early 2020 earthquakes in Puerto Rico. In 2021, the baseload power generation units of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority malfunctioned due to the 46 lack of adequate maintenance for over a decade, leading to selective outages across the island. In September 2022, Hurricane Fiona caused further damage to the island’s utility infrastructure which again resulted in widespread power outages and water supply issues. Although these events did not directly have a material effect on our business, they have resulted in disruptions to our third-party suppliers on the island. Further instability of the electric grid could require us to increase our use of our generators or to use them exclusively. In addition, future storms, earthquakes or other natural or man-made disasters or events (including political unrest or labor shortages) could have a more significant effect on our manufacturing operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has also resulted in disruptions to activities on the island. In March 2020, the Governor of Puerto Rico issued Executive Orders requiring the lockdown of businesses and government facilities, imposing restrictions on business operations and a curfew on residents in response to COVID-19. Additionally, during the summer of 2021, a labor dispute arose between the maritime terminal operation company and its employees, represented by the International Longshoremen’s Association (ILA), which resulted in a strike that delayed cargo movement from the San Juan Port Zone for several days. Hurricanes Maria and Fiona, the 2020 earthquakes, the COVID-19 pandemic and the ILA strike have also placed greater stress on the island’s already challenged economy. Beginning in 2016, the government of Puerto Rico defaulted on its roughly $72 billion of debt. In response, the U.S. Congress passed the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management, and Economic Stability Act, which established a financial oversight board for Puerto Rico. After years of negotiations with bondholders and other creditors, this financial oversight board reached an agreement with the same, which was confirmed by the U.S. District Court for the District of Puerto Rico effective March 2022. Although our ability to manufacture and supply our products has not, to date, been significantly affected by natural disasters, unreliable electric utility services, strikes, pandemic lockdowns or the island’s economic challenges, these, or a combination of these challenges, or other issues that create a substantial disruption to our ability to operate our Puerto Rico manufacturing facility or get supplies and manufactured products transported to and from that location, could make it more expensive or difficult for us to operate in Puerto Rico, and could materially and adversely affect our ability to supply our products and affect our product sales. See Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales . We rely on third-party suppliers for certain of our raw materials, medical devices and components. We rely on unaffiliated third-party suppliers for certain raw materials, medical devices and components necessary for the manufacturing of our commercial and clinical products. Certain of those raw materials, medical devices and components are proprietary products of those unaffiliated third-party suppliers and are specifically cited in our drug applications with regulatory agencies so that they must be obtained from that specific sole source or sources and could not be obtained from another supplier unless and until the regulatory agency approved such supplier. For example, we rely on a single source for the SureClick autoinjectors used in the drug delivery of Repatha, ENBREL, Aimovig, AMGEVITA and Aranesp. Also, certain of the raw materials required in the commercial and clinical manufacturing of our products are sourced from other countries and/or derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum and human serum albumin. Among the reasons we may be unable to obtain these raw materials, medical devices and components include: • regulatory requirements or action by regulatory agencies or others; • adverse financial or other strategic developments at or affecting the supplier, including bankruptcy; • unexpected demand for or shortage of raw materials, medical devices or components; • failure to comply with our quality standards which results in quality and product failures, product contamination and/or recall; • a material shortage, contamination, recall and/or restrictions on the use of certain biologically derived substances or other raw materials; • discovery of previously unknown or undetected imperfections in raw materials, medical devices or components; • cyberattacks on supplier systems; • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes or fires; • labor disputes or shortages, including from the effects of health emergencies (such as novel viruses or pandemics such as the one we are currently experiencing with COVID-19) or natural disasters; and • geopolitical conflicts. For example, in prior years we have experienced shortages in certain components necessary for the formulation, fill and finish of certain of our products in our Puerto Rico facility, and we have also experienced shortages related to single use systems and packaging which has caused disruptions to our manufacturing plans. Further quality issues that result in 47 unexpected additional demand for certain components have resulted in shortages and in the future may lead to shortages of required raw materials or components (such as we have experienced with EPOGEN glass vials). We may experience similar or other shortages in the future resulting in delayed shipments, supply constraints, clinical trial delays, contract disputes and/or stock-outs of our products. These or other similar events could negatively affect our ability to satisfy demand for our products or conduct clinical trials, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. Manufacturing biologic and small molecule human therapeutic products is difficult, complex and highly regulated. We manufacture many of our commercial products and product candidates internally. In addition, we currently use third-party contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our products, and we currently use contract manufacturers to produce, or assist in the production of, a number of our late-stage product candidates and drug delivery devices. See Item 1. Business—Manufacturing, Distribution and Raw Materials—Manufacturing. Our ability to adequately and timely manufacture and supply our products (and product candidates to support our clinical trials) is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of our facilities and those of our third-party contract manufacturers, which may be affected by: • capacity of manufacturing facilities; • contamination by microorganisms or viruses, or foreign particles from the manufacturing process; • natural or other disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, volcanoes or fires; • labor disputes or shortages, including the effects of health emergencies (such as novel viruses or pandemics such as the one we are currently experiencing with COVID-19) or natural disasters; • compliance with regulatory requirements; • changes in forecasts of future demand; • timing and actual number of production runs and production success rates and yields; • updates of manufacturing specifications; • contractual disputes with our suppliers and contract manufacturers; • timing and outcome of product quality testing; • power failures and/or other utility failures; • cyberattacks on supplier systems; • breakdown, failure, substandard performance or improper installation or operation of equipment (including our information technology systems and network-connected control systems or those of our contract manufacturers or third-party service providers); • delays in the ability of the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies to provide us necessary reviews, inspections and approvals, including as a result of a subsequent extended U.S. federal or other government shutdowns; and/or • geopolitical conflicts. If any of these or other problems affect production in one or more of our facilities or those of our third-party contract manufacturers, or if we do not accurately forecast demand for our products or the amount of our product candidates required in clinical trials, we may be unable to start or increase production in our unaffected facilities to meet demand. If the efficient manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates is interrupted, we may experience delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, stock-outs, adverse event trends, contract disputes and/or recalls of our products. From time to time, we have initiated recalls of certain lots of our products. For example, in July 2014 we initiated a voluntary recall of an Aranesp lot distributed in the EU after particles were detected in a quality control sample following distribution of that lot, and in April 2018 we initiated a precautionary recall of two batches of Vectibix distributed in Switzerland after potential crimping defects were discovered in the metal seals on some product vials. If we are at any time unable to provide an uninterrupted supply of our products to patients, we may lose patients and physicians may elect to prescribe competing therapeutics instead of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. 48 Our manufacturing processes, those of our third-party contract manufacturers and those of certain of our third-party service providers must undergo regulatory approval processes and are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. It can take longer than five years to build, validate and license another manufacturing plant, and it can take longer than three years to qualify and license a new contract manufacturer or service provider. If we elect or are required to make changes to our manufacturing processes because of new regulatory requirements, new interpretations of existing requirements or other reasons, this could increase our manufacturing costs and result in delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, stock-outs, adverse event trends or contract negotiations or disputes. Such manufacturing challenges may also occur if our existing contract manufacturers are unable or unwilling to timely implement such changes, or at all. In addition, regulatory agencies conduct routine monitoring and inspections of our manufacturing facilities and processes as well as those of our third-party contract manufacturers and service providers. If regulatory authorities determine that we or our third-party contract manufacturers or certain of our third-party service providers have violated regulations, they may mandate corrective actions and/or issue warning letters, or even restrict, suspend or revoke our prior approvals, prohibiting us from manufacturing our products or conducting clinical trials or selling our marketed products until we or the affected third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers comply, or indefinitely. See also Our current products and products in development cannot be sold without regulatory approval. Such issues may also delay the approval of product candidates we have submitted for regulatory review, even if such product candidates are not directly related to the products, devices or processes at issue with regulators. Because our third-party contract manufacturers and certain of our third-party service providers are subject to the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, alternative qualified third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. If we or our third-party contract manufacturers or third-party service providers cease or interrupt production or if our third-party contract manufacturers and third-party service providers fail to supply materials, products or services to us, we may experience delayed shipments, delays in our clinical trials, supply constraints, contract disputes, stock-outs and/or recalls of our products. Additionally, we distribute a substantial volume of our commercial products through our primary distribution centers in Louisville, Kentucky for the United States and in Breda, Netherlands for Europe and much of the rest of the world. We also conduct most of the labeling and packaging of our products distributed in Europe and much of the rest of the world in Breda. Our ability to timely supply products is dependent on the uninterrupted and efficient operations of our distribution and logistics centers, our third-party logistics providers and our labeling and packaging facility in Breda. Further, we rely on commercial transportation, including air and sea freight, for the distribution of our products to our customers, which has been negatively affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and may be negatively affected by natural disasters or geopolitical security threats. There have also been legislative and administrative proposals seeking to incentivize greater drug manufacturing in the United States with the stated goal of improving supply reliability in the United States. For example, on August 6, 2020, the previous Administration issued an Executive Order aimed at boosting domestic production of essential medicines, medical countermeasures, and critical inputs titled “Executive Order on Ensuring Essential Medicines, Medical Countermeasures, and Critical Inputs are Made in the United States.” Additionally, one legislative proposal would have prohibited the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs from purchasing certain drugs that have active pharmaceutical ingredients manufactured outside the United States. While we perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities in the United States, including in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California, the passage of such legislation could result in foreign governments enacting retaliatory legislation or regulatory actions, which may have an adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Our business and operations may be negatively affected by the failure, or perceived failure, of achieving our environmental, social and governance objectives. We continue to work towards operating our business in an environmentally responsible and socially inclusive manner. Stakeholders, including our investors and our employees, have increasingly focused on, and are expected to continue to focus on, our ESG practices. If our ESG practices fail to meet these stakeholders’ expectations and standards, there could be a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and, ultimately, our stock price. Our ESG report is made available on our website and describes our ESG goals and the progress we have made on the ESG issues deemed most important to our external and internal stakeholders, based on surveys, interviews and certain frameworks for corporate responsibility. Achieving our ESG goals requires long-term investments and broad, coordinated activity, and we may be required to incur additional costs or allocate additional resources towards monitoring, reporting and implementing our ESG practices. Further, we may fail to accurately assess our stakeholders’ ESG priorities, as such priorities have evolved and will continue to evolve. While we have achieved most of our goals set in prior years, whether we can achieve our current and future ESG goals continues to be uncertain and remains subject to numerous risks, including evolving regulatory requirements and social expectations affecting ESG practices, our ability to recruit, develop and retain a diverse workforce, the availability of suppliers and collaboration partners that can meet our ESG goals, the effects of the organic growth of our business and potential 49 acquisitions of other businesses on our ESG performance, and the availability and cost of technologies or resources, such as carbon credits, that support our goals. For example, impacts on the commodity market and supply chains caused by the armed conflict in Ukraine could limit the availability of electric vehicle components, impairing our ability to meet some of our environmental sustainability goals. Any failure or perceived failure to meet our ESG program priorities could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and stock price. The effects of global climate change and related natural disasters could negatively affect our business and operations. Many of our operations and facilities, including those essential to our manufacturing, R&D and distribution activities, are in locations that are subject to natural disasters, including droughts, fires, extreme temperatures, hurricanes, tropical storms and/or floods. For example, in 2017 Hurricane Maria caused catastrophic damage, compounded in 2022 by Hurricane Fiona, to the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, where we perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities. Although our site was well-protected and suffered minimal damage, there can be no assurances that we would have similar results in the face of future natural disasters. The severity and frequency of weather-related natural disasters has been amplified, and is expected to continue to be amplified by, global climate change. Such natural disasters have caused, and in the future may cause, damage to and/or disrupt our operations, which may result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. Our suppliers, vendors and business partners also face similar risks, and any disruption to their operations could have an adverse effect on our supply and manufacturing chain. Further, many of our key facilities are located on islands, including Puerto Rico, Singapore and Ireland, which rely on essential port facilities that may be vulnerable to climate change-related or other natural disasters. Although we have detailed business continuity plans in place and periodic assessments of our natural disaster risk, any natural disaster may also result in prolonged interruption to our critical operational and business activities, and we may be required to incur significant costs to remedy the effects of such natural disasters and fully resume operations, which may result in a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. See We perform a substantial majority of our commercial manufacturing activities at our facility in the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico and a substantial majority of our clinical manufacturing activities at our facility in Thousand Oaks, California; significant disruptions or production failures at these facilities could significantly impair our ability to supply our products or continue our clinical trials and Manufacturing difficulties, disruptions or delays could limit supply of our products and limit our product sales. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business. Our operations and performance have been, and may continue to be, affected by global economic conditions. The economic downturn resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic precipitated a global recession, and together with high rates of inflation and energy supply issues experienced in certain regions, have led to regional and/or global macroeconomic challenges, the effects of which may be of an extended duration. In particular, acute rising energy costs may further adversely affect productivity and economic conditions in Europe. Additionally, financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to more aggressively seek cost containment measures in healthcare and other settings. See Our sales depend on coverage and reimbursement from government and commercial third-party payers, and pricing and reimbursement pressures have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our profitability. As a result of global economic conditions, some third-party payers may delay or be unable to satisfy their reimbursement obligations. Job losses or other economic hardships (including inflation) may also affect patients’ ability to afford healthcare as a result of increased co-pay or deductible obligations, greater cost sensitivity to existing co-pay or deductible obligations, lost healthcare insurance coverage or for other reasons. We believe such conditions have led and could continue to lead to reduced demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. The current inflationary environment related to increased aggregate demand, supply chain constraints and the effects from the armed conflict in Ukraine (including the effects of the sanctions that were implemented in response to the conflict and the resulting impacts on the commodity market and supply chains) have also increased our operating expenses and may continue to affect our operating expenses. Our operational costs, including the cost of energy, materials, labor, distribution and our other operational and facilities costs are subject to market conditions and are being adversely affected by inflationary pressures. Economic conditions may also adversely affect the ability of our distributors, customers and suppliers to obtain the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials and to perform their obligations under agreements with us, which could disrupt our operations. Although we monitor our distributors’, customers’ and suppliers’ financial condition and their liquidity to mitigate our business risks, some of our distributors, customers and suppliers may become insolvent, which could have a material adverse effect on our product sales, business and results of operations. A significant worsening of global economic conditions could precipitate or materially amplify the other risks described herein . We maintain a significant portfolio of investments disclosed as cash equivalents and marketable securities on our consolidated balance sheets. The global spread of COVID-19 has also led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets. We have certain assets, including equity investments, that are exposed to market fluctuations that could, in a sustained 50 or recurrent series of market disruptions, result in impairments. The value of our investments may also be adversely affected by interest rate fluctuations, inflation, downgrades in credit ratings, illiquidity in the capital markets and other factors that may result in other-than-temporary declines in the value of our investments. Any of those events could cause us to record impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio or to realize losses on sales of investments. Our stock price is volatile. Our stock price, like that of our peers in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, is volatile. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period for a number of reasons. Events such as a delay in product development, changes to our expectations or strategy or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, our revenues and operating results and, in turn, our stock price may be subject to significant fluctuations. Announcements or discussions, including via social media channels, of possible restrictive actions by government or private payers that would negatively affect our business or industry if ultimately enacted or adopted may also cause our stock price to fluctuate, whether or not such restrictive actions ever actually occur. Similarly, actual or perceived safety issues with our products or similar products or unexpected clinical trial results can have an immediate and rapid effect on our stock price, whether or not our operating results are materially affected. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. The capital and credit markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption, which may lead to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. For example, early in 2020, there were significant disruptions in the commercial paper market and several borrowers were unable to obtain funding at normal rates or maturities, which resulted in a significant increase in draws of corporate credit lines with banks. Similarly, the bond markets experienced extreme volatility in terms of interest rates and credit spreads, with several days without new issuances of corporate bonds. We expect to access the capital markets, from time to time, to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations to satisfy our needs for working capital; capital expenditure and debt service requirements; our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock; and other business initiatives we strategically plan to pursue, including acquisitions (such as our acquisition of Horizon) and licensing activities. In the event of adverse capital and credit market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital market financing on similar favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations or our ability to complete business acquisitions. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit-rating agencies could adversely affect our ability to obtain capital market financing and the cost of such financing and have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following MD&A is intended to assist the reader in understanding Amgen’s business. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our results of operations discussed in MD&A are presented in conformity with GAAP. Amgen operates in one business segment: human therapeutics. Therefore, our results of operations are discussed on a consolidated basis. Forward-looking statements This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. In addition, we, or others on our behalf, may make forward-looking statements in press releases, written statements or our communications and discussions with investors and analysts in the normal course of business through meetings, webcasts, phone calls and conference calls. Such words as “expect,” “anticipate,” “outlook,” “could,” “target,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “should,” “may,” “assume” and “continue” as well as variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and they involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. We describe our respective risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect the outcome or results of operations in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements. Reference is made in particular to forward-looking statements regarding product sales, regulatory activities, clinical trial results, reimbursement, expenses, EPS, liquidity and capital resources, trends, planned dividends, stock repurchases, collaborations and effects of pandemics. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we do not have any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise. 55 Overview Amgen is a biotechnology company committed to unlocking the potential of biology for patients suffering from serious illnesses. A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, Amgen has grown to be one of the world’s leading independent biotechnology companies, has reached millions of patients around the world and is developing a pipeline of medicines with breakaway potential. Our principal products are ENBREL, Prolia, Otezla, XGEVA, Aranesp, Nplate, Repatha, KYPROLIS, Neulasta and EVENITY. We also market a number of other products, including MVASI, Vectibix, BLINCYTO, EPOGEN, AMGEVITA, Aimovig, Parsabiv, KANJINTI, LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS, TEZSPIRE, NEUPOGEN, Sensipar/Mimpara and TAVNEOS. For additional information about our products, see Part I, Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products. Our strategy includes integrated activities intended to strengthen our competitive position in the industry. We operate in six commercial areas: inflammation, oncology/hematology, bone health, cardiovascular (CV) disease, nephrology and neuroscience. We conduct discovery research primarily in three therapeutic areas: inflammation, oncology/hematology and general medicine. In 2022, we advanced our innovative pipeline, grew our international business, completed a strategic transaction to augment our marketed product portfolio, announced our intention to acquire Horizon and continued providing uninterrupted supplies of our medicines globally through the third year of the COVID-19 pandemic. We accomplished these objectives while maintaining a strategic and disciplined approach to capital allocation and advancing our ESG efforts. In 2022, we continued to advance our pipeline, initiating phase 3 clinical trials for a number of programs, including LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS for advanced colorectal cancer, olpasiran for CV disease and rocatinlimab for atopic dermatitis. We continued to grow our international business, including achieving key regulatory approvals for TEZSPIRE in the EU and Japan. Our external business development activities for 2022 included the acquisition of ChemoCentryx, adding recently launched TAVNEOS to our inflammation portfolio. We also continued to advance our biosimilar program, with launches in new markets. Our biosimilars are expected to continue launching in new markets throughout 2023, including the U.S. launch of AMJEVITA in January 2023. During 2022, while gradually recovering from the global pandemic and facing increased competition from biosimilars and generics, total product sales increased 2%, primarily driven by volume growth for certain brands, partially offset by declines in net selling prices of certain products and unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates. Product sales increased 3% in the United States, primarily driven by volume growth, partially offset by declines in net selling prices, and increased 1% in ROW, primarily driven by volume growth, partially offset by unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates and declines in net selling prices. Total operating expenses decreased 9% due to both the acquired IPR&D write-off from the Five Prime acquisition and a licensing-related upfront payment to KKC in 2021, partially offset by a loss on a nonstrategic divestiture in 2022. Cash flows from operating activities totaled $9.7 billion, which supported investment in our business while returning capital to shareholders through the payment of cash dividends and stock repurchases. For 2022, we increased our quarterly cash dividend by 10% to $1.94 per share of common stock. In December 2022, we declared a cash dividend of $2.13 per share of common stock for the first quarter of 2023, an increase of 10% for this period, to be paid in March 2023. We also repurchased 26.1 million shares of our common stock during 2022 at an aggregate cost of $6.3 billion. In 2022, we received net proceeds from the issuance of debt of $6.9 billion and extinguished $0.3 billion of debt. In December 2022, in connection with the proposed acquisition of Horizon, we entered into a bridge credit agreement and a term loan credit agreement which provide for borrowings in the aggregate of $28.5 billion. Amgen’s approach to and investment in human capital resource management is directed at attracting, motivating, developing and retaining talent to tackle the challenges of running an enterprise focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative medicines. Our compensation, benefits and development programs are designed to encourage performance, promote accountability and adherence to Company values, and align with the interests of the Company’s shareholders. Further, we believe that a diverse and inclusive culture fosters innovation, which supports our ability to serve patients. We are engaging in activities and setting goals to improve our focus on diversity, inclusion and belonging. For further information on these and other efforts, see Part I, Item 1. Business—Human Capital Resources. 56 We have a long-standing ambition to be environmentally responsible, and we regularly set targets to challenge ourselves to deliver further improvements. We achieved our targets for the 2013–2020 period while growing revenues, increasing production capacity and expanding to approximately 100 countries over the same period. To continue on our path to greater environmental sustainability, in January 2021 we announced a new set of long-term environmental targets to achieve by 2027, including achieving carbon neutrality, reducing water consumption by 40% and reducing waste disposed by 75%. (1)(2) Additionally, in 2022 we issued our first green bonds to finance eligible projects that meet specified criteria to reduce our impact on the environment. Our long-term success depends, to a great extent, on our ability to continue to discover, develop and commercialize innovative products and acquire or collaborate on therapies currently in development by other companies. We must develop new products to achieve revenue growth and to offset revenue losses from when products lose their exclusivity or when competing products are launched. Certain of our products face increasing pressure from competition, including biosimilars and generics. For additional information, including information on the expirations of patents for various products, see Part I, Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Patents, and Part I, Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Competition. We devote considerable resources to R&D activities, but successful product development in the biotechnology industry is highly uncertain. We also face increasing regulatory scrutiny of safety and efficacy both before and after products launch. Rising healthcare costs, uncertain macroeconomic conditions, including higher inflation and rising interest rates, and geopolitical conflicts continue to pose challenges to our business. As a result of public and private healthcare-provider focus, the industry continues to be subject to cost containment measures and significant pricing pressures, including net price declines. Moreover, legislation enacted to reduce healthcare expenditures, including provisions of the IRA, have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Finally, wholesale and end-user buying patterns can affect our product sales. These buying patterns can cause fluctuations in quarterly product sales but have generally not been significant to date when comparing full-year product performance to the prior year. See Part I, Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products, and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors for further discussion of certain factors that could impact our future product sales. COVID-19 pandemic Since the onset of the pandemic in 2020, we have been closely monitoring the pandemic’s effects on our global operations. We continue to take appropriate steps to minimize risks to our employees, a significant number of whom have continued to work virtually. To date, our remote working arrangements have not significantly affected our ability to maintain critical business operations, and we have not experienced disruptions to or shortages of our supply of medicines. Over the course of the pandemic we have experienced changes in demand for some of our products as fluctuations in the frequency of patient visits to doctors’ offices have impacted the provision of treatments to existing patients and reduced diagnoses in new patients. During 2021, there was a gradual recovery in both patient visits and diagnosis rates that approached pre-pandemic levels. In 2022, the pandemic continued to impact the healthcare sector and our business, to varying degrees across our markets. During 2022, with the exception of the Asia Pacific region that was affected by lockdowns during most of the year, we saw greater stability in patient visits and demand patterns even in areas that were facing surges in the virus. Given the evolution of COVID-19 since its onset, including the proliferation of variants, we cannot predict the impact of future virus surges on our business and will continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on our business and on the healthcare sector more generally. Since early 2021, efforts have been under way to control the COVID-19 pandemic. However, uncertainty remains as to the efficacy of these activities with respect to the ongoing trajectory of the pandemic. Challenges to vaccination efforts, new variants and other causes of virus spread may require governments to change restrictions and/or shutdown requirements in various geographies. As a result, we expect to see continued volatility for at least the duration of the pandemic as governments respond to current local conditions. With regard to our clinical trial activities, we are continuously monitoring COVID-19 infection rates, including changes from new variants; we are working to mitigate effects on future study enrollment in our clinical trials; and we are evaluating the impact in all relevant countries. We remain focused on supporting our active clinical sites in their providing care for patients and in our providing investigational drug supply. For a discussion of the risks the COVID-19 pandemic could present to our results, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. (1) Represents reductions against established baselines, taking into account only verified reduction projects and does not take into account changes associated with contraction or expansion of the Company. (2) Carbon neutrality goal refers to Scope 1 and 2. 57 Selected Financial Information The following is an overview of our results of operations (in millions, except percentages and per-share data): In the following discussion of changes in product sales, any reference to volume growth or decline refers to changes in the purchases of our products by healthcare providers (such as physicians or their clinics), dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. In addition, any reference to increases or decreases in inventory refers to changes in inventory held by wholesaler customers and end users (such as pharmacies). Total product sales increased in 2022, primarily driven by volume growth for certain brands, including Repatha, Prolia, EVENITY, Nplate, LUMAKRAS/LUMYKRAS, KYPROLIS, Otezla and TEZSPIRE, partially offset by declines in net selling prices of certain products, including Neulasta, Repatha and MVASI, and unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates. For 2023, we expect that net selling prices will continue to decline at a portfolio level driven by increased competition. Further, the first quarter of a year historically represents the lowest product sales quarter for the year, in part due to plan changes, insurance reverifications and higher co-pay expenses as U.S. patients work through deductibles, particularly for products acquired through pharmacy benefit programs. As a result of uncertain macroeconomic conditions, we expect volatility around foreign currency exchange rates to continue. The impact of unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates will be partially offset by corresponding decreases in our international operating expenses. While not designed to completely address foreign currency changes, our hedging activities also seek to offset, in part, such effects on our net income by hedging our net foreign currency exposure, primarily with respect to product sales denominated in euros. As discussed above, our product sales have been affected by reduced demand as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In general, the dynamics of the pandemic were most significant on our product sales in the early months of the pandemic, with demand beginning to show some recovery in late 2020. In late 2021 and early 2022, increased infection rates caused by variants of the virus (including Omicron) led to diminished capacity in the healthcare sector and reduced working days for our own sales force, which impacted our business. As of the second quarter of 2022, we saw the effects of these variants recede in most markets, which allowed us to engage in increased field-facing activities . Provider and patient activity also increased, leading to improvements in demand for our products to pre-pandemic levels. However, the cumulative decrease in diagnoses over the course of the pandemic has suppressed the volume of new patients starting treatment, which continues to impact our business. Given the unpredictable nature of the pandemic, there could be intermittent disruptions in physician–patient interactions, and as a result, we may experience quarter-to-quarter variability. In addition, other changes in the healthcare ecosystem have the potential to introduce variability into product sales trends. For example, changes in U.S. employment have led to changes to the insured population. Growth in numbers of Medicaid enrollees and uninsured individuals, along with provisions of the IRA, may have a negative impact on product sales. Overall, uncertainty remains around the timing and magnitude of our sales during the COVID-19 pandemic. See Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. Other revenues decreased for 2022, driven by lower revenue from COVID-19 antibody material and licensing-related revenues. Operating expenses decreased for 2022 due to both the acquired IPR&D write-off related to the bemarituzumab program acquired as part of the Five Prime acquisition and a licensing-related upfront payment to KKC in 2021, partially offset by a loss 58 on a nonstrategic divestiture in 2022. See Part IV—Note 2, Acquisitions and divestitures, and Note 8, Collaborations, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of Operations Product sales Worldwide product sales were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): ____________ (1) Consists of product sales of our non-principal products, as well as our Gensenta and Bergamo subsidiaries. Future sales of our products will depend in part on the factors discussed in the Overview, Part I, Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Competition, in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, and any additional factors discussed in the individual product sections below. In addition, for a list of our products’ significant competitors, see Part I, Item 1. Business—Marketing, Distribution and Selected Marketed Products—Competition. ENBREL Total ENBREL sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The decrease in ENBREL sales for 2022 was primarily driven by unfavorable changes to estimated sales deductions, lower volume and lower net selling price. For 2023, we expect ENBREL to follow the historical pattern of lower sales in the first quarter relative to subsequent quarters due to the impact of benefit plan changes, insurance reverification and increased co-pay expenses as U.S. patients work through deductibles. In addition, for 2023, we expect further declines in net selling price. The decrease in ENBREL sales for 2021 was driven by lower net selling price, volume and unfavorable changes to inventory. 59 Prolia Total Prolia sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The increase in global Prolia sales for 2022 was driven by volume growth and higher net selling price, partially offset by unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates. The increase in global Prolia sales for 2021 was primarily driven by volume growth. Otezla Total Otezla sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The increase in global Otezla sales for 2022 was primarily driven by volume growth, partially offset by lower net selling price. ROW Otezla sales for 2022 were impacted by unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates. For 2023, we expect Otezla to follow the historical pattern of lower sales in the first quarter relative to subsequent quarters due to the impact of benefit plan changes, insurance reverification and increased co-pay expenses as U.S. patients work through deductibles. The increase in global Otezla sales for 2021 was driven by volume growth, partially offset by lower net selling price and unfavorable changes to inventory. For a discussion of ongoing litigation related to Otezla, see Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. XGEVA Total XGEVA sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): Global XGEVA sales were relatively unchanged for 2022 as higher net selling price was offset by lower volume as a result of increased competition and unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates. The increase in global XGEVA sales for 2021 was primarily driven by volume growth, partially offset by lower net selling price. 60 Aranesp Total Aranesp sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The decrease in global Aranesp sales for 2022 was driven by lower net selling price and unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by favorable changes to estimated sales deductions and volume growth. The decrease in global Aranesp sales for 2021 was primarily driven by lower net selling price. Aranesp continues to face competition from a long-acting erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) and from a biosimilar version of EPOGEN, which will impact net selling price and volume in the future. Nplate Total Nplate sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The increase in global Nplate sales for 2022 was driven by volume growth. Nplate sales for 2022 included a $207 million order in the fourth quarter from the U.S. government. The increase in global Nplate sales for 2021 was primarily driven by volume growth. Repatha Total Repatha sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The increase in global Repatha sales for 2022 was driven by volume growth, partially offset by lower net selling price and unfavorable changes to foreign currency exchange rates. Volume benefited from contracting changes to support and improve Medicare Part D and commercial patient access and the inclusion of Repatha on China’s National Reimbursement Drug List as of January 1, 2022, both of which resulted in decreases to the net selling price in 2022. The increase in global Repatha sales for 2021 was driven by volume growth, partially offset by lower net selling price. For a discussion of ongoing litigation related to Repatha, see Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 61 KYPROLIS Total KYPROLIS sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The increases in global KYPROLIS sales for 2022 and 2021 were primarily driven by volume growth. The FDA has reported that it has granted tentative or final approval of ANDAs for generic carfilzomib products filed by a number of companies. The date of approval of those ANDAs for generic carfilzomib products is governed by the Hatch–Waxman Act and any applicable settlement agreements between us and certain companies that seek to develop generic carfilzomib products. Neulasta Total Neulasta sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The decreases in global Neulasta sales for 2022 and 2021 were driven by lower net selling price and volume. Increased competition as a result of biosimilar versions of Neulasta has had and will continue to have a significant adverse impact on brand sales, including accelerating net price erosion and lower volume. We also expect other biosimilar versions, including biosimilars that will use an on-body injector that would compete with our Onpro injector, to be approved in the future. EVENITY Total EVENITY sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): The increases in global EVENITY sales for 2022 and 2021 were driven by volume growth across our markets. 62 Other products Other product sales by geographic region were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): NM = not meaningful * Change in excess of 100% ____________ (1) TAVNEOS was acquired on October 20, 2022 from our acquisition of ChemoCentryx. (2) Consists of Corlanor, AVSOLA, IMLYGIC and RIABNI, as well as sales by our Gensenta and Bergamo subsidiaries. 63 Operating expenses Operating expenses were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): NM = not meaningful * Change in excess of 100% Cost of sales Cost of sales decreased to 24.3% of total revenues for 2022, driven by lower COVID-19 antibody shipments and manufacturing costs, partially offset by changes in our product mix. Cost of sales increased to 24.8% of total revenues for 2021, driven by changes in our product mix and higher profit share and royalties, partially offset by lower amortization expense from acquisition-related assets and lower manufacturing costs. Research and development The Company groups all of its R&D activities and related expenditures into three categories: (i) research and early pipeline, (ii) later-stage clinical programs and (iii) marketed products. These categories are described below: 64 R&D expense by category was as follows (in millions): The decrease in R&D expense for 2022 was driven by higher business development activity in 2021 included in later-stage clinical programs and research and early pipeline and lower marketed products support, partially offset by higher later-stage clinical programs support and research and early pipeline spend. The increase in R&D expense for 2021 was driven by a licensing-related upfront payment to KKC included in later-stage clinical programs and higher spend in research and early pipeline, including other business development activities. Acquired in-process research and development The Acquired IPR&D expense in 2021 was related to the bemarituzumab program, which was acquired as part of the Five Prime acquisition in 2021. See Part IV—Note 2, Acquisitions and divestitures, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, general and administrative The increase in SG&A expense for 2022 was primarily driven by higher acquisition-related expenses. The decrease in SG&A expense for 2021 was primarily driven by lower spend for marketed products and lower general and administrative expenses. Other Other operating expenses for 2022 primarily consisted of a loss on a nonstrategic divestiture. See Part IV—Note 2, Acquisitions and divestitures, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other operating expenses for 2021 primarily consisted of expenses related to cost-savings initiatives and a legal judgment. Other operating expenses for 2020 primarily consisted of legal settlement expenses. Nonoperating expenses/income and income taxes Nonoperating expenses/income and income taxes were as follows (dollar amounts in millions): Interest expense, net The increase in Interest expense, net, for 2022 was primarily due to higher overall debt outstanding and higher LIBORs on debt for which we effectively pay a variable rate of interest through the use of interest rate swaps. The decrease in Interest expense, net, for 2021 was primarily due to net higher costs associated with the early retirement of debt in 2020 and lower LIBORs in 2021 on debt for which we effectively pay a variable rate of interest through the use of interest rate swaps, partially offset by higher overall debt outstanding. 65 Other (expense) income, net The change in Other (expense) income, net, for 2022 was primarily due to higher losses recognized in connection with our BeiGene investment compared with 2021 and losses recognized on our investments in limited partnerships, publicly traded equity securities and other strategic investments. The change in Other (expense) income, net, for 2021 was primarily due to lower losses incurred in connection with our BeiGene investment compared with 2020, partially offset by lower income on our interest-bearing investments in 2021 and other nonrecurring gains recognized in 2020. Income taxes The decrease in our effective tax rate for 2022 compared with 2021 was primarily due to the nondeductible IPR&D expense arising from the acquisition of Five Prime in the prior year, partially offset by a nondeductible loss on a nonstrategic divestiture in 2022 and net unfavorable items as compared to the prior year. The increase in our effective tax rate for 2021 compared with 2020 was primarily driven by the nondeductible IPR&D expense arising from the acquisition of Five Prime, partially offset by earnings mix and adjustments to prior-year tax liabilities. The Administration and Congress continue to discuss changes to existing tax law that could substantially increase the taxes we pay to the U.S. government. Further, the OECD recently reached an agreement to align countries on a minimum corporate tax rate and an expansion of the taxing rights of market countries. If enacted, either by all OECD participants or unilaterally by individual countries, this agreement could result in a tax increase that could affect our U.S. and foreign tax liabilities. The U.S. Treasury released final foreign tax credit regulations in December 2021 that eliminated U.S. creditability of the Puerto Rico Excise Tax beginning in 2023, which would have increased our U.S. tax liability. In response, on June 30, 2022, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico enacted Act 52-2022, which provides for an alternate fixed tax rate on industrial development income that the U.S. Treasury confirmed will be creditable under federal law. As part of this new law, eligible businesses will be subject to incremental income and withholding taxes in lieu of payment of the Puerto Rico Excise Tax. In order to qualify for the alternative fixed tax rate, our current tax grant with the Puerto Rico government was amended in December 2022. We qualify for this alternative fixed tax rate, beginning January 1, 2023 and our tax expense will increase. In 2017, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2010–2012, proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2021, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest two duplicate Statutory Notices of Deficiency (Notices) for the years 2010–2012 that we received in May and July 2021, which seek to increase our U.S. taxable income for the years 2010–2012 by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $3.6 billion plus interest. Any additional tax that could be imposed for the years 2010–2012 would be reduced by up to approximately $900 million of repatriation tax previously accrued on our foreign earnings. In 2020, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2013–2015, also proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico similar to those proposed for the years 2010–2012. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2022, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest a Notice for the years 2013–2015 that we previously reported receiving in April 2022 that seeks to increase our U.S. taxable income for the years 2013–2015 by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $5.1 billion, plus interest. In addition, the Notice asserts penalties of approximately $2.0 billion. Any additional tax that could be imposed for the years 2013–2015 would be reduced by up to approximately $2.2 billion of repatriation tax previously accrued on our foreign earnings. We firmly believe that the IRS positions set forth in the 2010–2012 and 2013–2015 Notices are without merit. We are contesting the 2010–2012 and 2013–2015 Notices through the judicial process. The two cases were consolidated in U.S. Tax Court on December 19, 2022. We are currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2016–2018 with respect to issues similar to those for the 2010 through 2015 period. In addition, we are under examination by a number of state and foreign tax jurisdictions. Final resolution of these complex matters is not likely within the next 12 months. We continue to believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, application of the tax law to our facts and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes and 66 uncertain resolution of these matters, the ultimate outcome of any tax matters may result in payments substantially greater than amounts accrued and could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors— The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability; Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis or Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Income taxes; and Part IV—Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Selected financial data was as follows (in millions): Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities Our balance of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities was $9.3 billion at December 31, 2022. The primary objective of our investment portfolio is to maintain safety of principal, prudent levels of liquidity and acceptable levels of risk. Our investment policy limits interest-bearing security investments to certain types of debt and money market instruments issued by institutions with primarily investment-grade credit ratings, and it places restrictions on maturities and concentration by asset class and issuer. Capital allocation Consistent with the objective to optimize our capital structure, we deploy our accumulated cash balances in a strategic manner and consider a number of alternatives, including investments in innovation, both internally and externally, strategic transactions (including those that expand our portfolio of products in areas of therapeutic interest), repayment of debt, payment of dividends and stock repurchases. We intend to continue investing in our business while returning capital to stockholders through the payment of cash dividends and stock repurchases, thereby reflecting our confidence in the future cash flows of our business and our desire to optimize our cost of capital. The timing and amount of future dividends and stock repurchases will vary based on a number of factors, including future capital requirements for strategic transactions, availability of financing on acceptable terms, debt service requirements, our credit rating, changes to applicable tax laws or corporate laws, changes to our business model and periodic determination by our Board of Directors that cash dividends and/or stock repurchases are in the best interests of stockholders and are in compliance with applicable laws and the Company’s agreements. In addition, the timing and amount of stock repurchases may also be affected by our overall level of cash, stock price and blackout periods, during which we are restricted from repurchasing stock. The manner of stock repurchases may include block purchases, tender offers, accelerated share repurchases and market transactions. The Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $1.94, $1.76 and $1.60 per share of common stock paid in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, an increase of 10% over the prior year in both 2022 and 2021. In December 2022, the Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $2.13 per share of common stock for the first quarter of 2023, an increase of 10% for this period, to be paid in March 2023. We also returned capital to stockholders through our stock repurchase program. During 2022, we repurchased $6.3 billion of common stock, including $6.0 billion under ASR agreements and had cash settlements for stock repurchases of $6.4 billion. In 2021, we repurchased and had cash settlements of $5.0 billion of common stock. In 2020, we repurchased and had cash settlements of $3.5 billion of common stock. In October 2022, the Board of Directors increased the amount authorized under our stock repurchase program by $2.4 billion. As of December 31, 2022, $7.0 billion remained available under the stock repurchase program. 67 As a result of stock repurchases and quarterly dividend payments, we have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. Our accumulated deficit is not anticipated to affect our future ability to operate, repurchase stock, pay dividends or repay our debt given our expected continued profitability and strong financial position. We believe that existing funds, cash generated from operations and existing sources of and access to financing are adequate to satisfy our needs for working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements, our plans to pay dividends and repurchase stock, and other business initiatives we plan to strategically pursue, including acquisitions and licensing activities. We anticipate that our liquidity needs can be met through a variety of sources, including cash provided by operating activities, sales of marketable securities, borrowings through commercial paper and/or syndicated credit facilities, and access to other domestic and foreign debt markets and equity markets. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors— Global economic conditions may negatively affect us and may magnify certain risks that affect our business . Financing arrangements To help meet our liquidity requirements, we have entered into various financing arrangements. The noncurrent portions of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, were $37.4 billion and $33.2 billion, respectively. The carrying values of our long-term borrowings are net of fair value adjustments for interest rate swaps and unamortized discounts, premiums and offering costs. As of December 31, 2022, S&P, Moody’s and Fitch assigned credit ratings to our outstanding senior notes of BBB+, Baa1 and BBB+, respectively, which are considered investment grade. Unfavorable changes to these ratings may have an adverse impact on future financings. During 2022, 2021 and 2020, we issued debt with aggregate principal amounts of $7.0 billion, $5.0 billion and $9.0 billion, respectively. During 2022, we repurchased portions of our debt at a cost of $0.3 billion. During 2021 and 2020, we repaid/redeemed debt of $4.2 billion and $6.5 billion, respectively. In addition, during 2020, we exchanged $0.7 billion of certain of our outstanding note issuances with $0.9 billion of newly issued notes with a lower interest rate and later maturity date. To achieve a desired mix of fixed-rate and floating-rate debt, we entered into interest rate swap contracts that effectively converted a fixed-rate interest coupon for certain of our debt issuances to a floating, LIBOR-based coupon over the lives of the respective notes. These interest rate swap contracts qualify and are designated as fair value hedges. As of both December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had interest rate swap contracts with aggregate notional amount of $6.7 billion. To hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with certain of our long-term notes denominated in foreign currencies, we entered into cross-currency swap contracts, which effectively convert the interest payments and principal repayment of the respective notes from euros, pounds sterling and Swiss francs to U.S. dollars. These cross-currency swap contracts qualify and are designated as cash flow hedges. As of both December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had cross-currency swap contracts with aggregate notional amount of $3.4 billion. As of December 31, 2022, we had a commercial paper program that allows us to issue up to $2.5 billion of unsecured commercial paper to fund our working-capital needs. During 2022, 2021 and 2020, we did not issue any commercial paper. No commercial paper was outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. In 2019, we amended and restated our $2.5 billion syndicated, unsecured, revolving credit agreement, which is available for general corporate purposes or as a liquidity backstop to our commercial paper program. The commitments under the revolving credit agreement may be increased by up to $750 million with the agreement of the banks. Each bank that is a party to the agreement has an initial commitment term of five years. This term may be extended for up to two additional one-year periods with the agreement of the banks. Annual commitment fees for this agreement are 0.1% of the unused portion of the facility based on our current credit rating. In December 2022, this revolving credit agreement was further amended to replace LIBOR with SOFR as the reference rate, pursuant to provisions contained therein related to determination of successor rates in case of phaseout or unavailability of existing designated reference rates. Generally, we would be charged interest for any amounts borrowed under this facility, based on our current credit rating, at (i) SOFR plus 1.125% or (ii) the highest of (A) the syndication agent bank base commercial lending rate, (B) the overnight federal funds rate plus 0.50% or (C) one-month SOFR plus 1.1%. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, no amounts were outstanding under this facility. In December 2022, in connection with the proposed acquisition of Horizon, we entered into a bridge credit agreement and a term loan credit agreement which provide for borrowings in the aggregate of $28.5 billion. As of December 31, 2022, no amounts have been borrowed under either agreement. See Part IV—Note 2, Acquisitions and divestitures, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 68 It is anticipated that the U.S. dollar LIBOR rate will be phased out and replaced by 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a group of private-market participants convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to help ensure a successful transition from U.S. dollar LIBOR to a more robust reference rate, recommends SOFR as the U.S. dollar LIBOR alternative. As such, we expect SOFR to become widely adopted by market participants. We do not expect this change to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors— Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including in emerging markets. In February 2020, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC that allows us to issue unspecified amounts of debt securities; common stock; preferred stock; warrants to purchase debt securities, common stock, preferred stock or depositary shares; rights to purchase common stock or preferred stock; securities purchase contracts; securities purchase units; and depositary shares. Under this shelf registration statement, all of the securities available for issuance may be offered from time to time with terms to be determined at the time of issuance. This shelf registration statement expires in February 2023, and our Board has approved a new shelf registration statement to replace it. Certain of our financing arrangements contain nonfinancial covenants. In addition, our revolving credit agreement, bridge credit agreement and term loan credit agreement include a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a specified minimum interest coverage ratio of (i) the sum of consolidated net income, interest expense, provision for income taxes, depreciation expense, amortization expense, unusual or nonrecurring charges and other noncash items (Consolidated EBITDA) to (ii) Consolidated Interest Expense, each as defined and described in the respective agreements. We were in compliance with all applicable covenants under these arrangements as of December 31, 2022. These financing arrangements are more fully discussed in Part IV—Note 15, Financing arrangements, and Note 18, Derivative instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash flows Our summarized cash flow activity was as follows (in millions): Operating Cash provided by operating activities has been and is expected to continue to be our primary recurring source of funds. Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2022 primarily due to the timing of payments for sales incentives and discounts, vendor purchases, liabilities to tax authorities and receipts from corporate partners, partially offset by higher manufacturing activities in the current year. Cash provided by operating activities decreased during 2021 primarily due to the monetization of interest rate swaps that occurred in 2020 and the timing of payments for sales incentives and discounts. Investing Cash used in investing activities during 2022 was primarily due to our $3.8 billion purchase of ChemoCentryx and net cash outflows related to marketable securities of $1.4 billion. Cash provided by investing activities during 2021 was primarily due to net cash inflows related to marketable securities of $4.3 billion, partially offset by cash used in the acquisitions of Teneobio and Five Prime of $2.5 billion. Cash used in investing activities during 2020 was primarily due to our $3.2 billion of purchases of equity method investments, primarily BeiGene, and net cash outflows related to marketable securities of $1.5 billion. Capital expenditures were $936 million, $880 million and $608 million in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We currently estimate 2023 spending on capital projects to be approximately $925 million. A majority of the increase in expenditures relates to expansion of manufacturing capacity to enable supply of products and product candidates. 69 Financing Cash used in financing activities during 2022 was primarily due to payments to repurchase our common stock of $6.4 billion and dividends paid of $4.2 billion, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of debt of $6.9 billion. Cash used in financing activities during 2021 was primarily due to payments to repurchase our common stock of $5.0 billion and the payment of dividends of $4.0 billion, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of debt, net of repayments of $0.8 billion. Cash used in financing activities during 2020 was primarily due to the payment of dividends of $3.8 billion and payments to repurchase our common stock of $3.5 billion, partially offset by proceeds from issuance of debt, net of repayments of $2.5 billion. See Part IV—Note 9, Investments; Note 15, Financing arrangements; and Note 16, Stockholders’ equity, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital requirements We have material cash requirements to pay third parties under various contractual obligations discussed below. We are obligated to pay interest and repay principal under our various financing arrangements, including amounts under interest rate swap and cross-currency swap contracts related to certain of our long-term debt obligations. For information on scheduled debt maturities and payments under derivative contracts associated with our long-term debt obligations, see Part IV—Note 15, Financing arrangements, and Note 18, Derivative instruments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are obligated to make payments for operating leases, including rental commitments on abandoned leases and leases that have not yet commenced. For information on these obligations, see Part IV—Note 13, Leases, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under the 2017 Tax Act, we elected to pay in eight annual installments the repatriation tax related primarily to prior indefinitely invested earnings of our foreign operations. For information on the remaining scheduled repatriation tax installments, see Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments—Commitments—U.S. repatriation tax, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have purchase obligations of $3.5 billion primarily related to (i) R&D commitments (including those related to clinical trials) for new and existing products, (ii) capital expenditures and (iii) open purchase orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary course of business. Most of these obligations are expected to be paid within one year, and payment of certain of these amounts may be reduced based on certain future events. In addition to the purchase obligations noted above, we are contractually obligated to pay additional amounts that in the aggregate are significant, upon the achievement of various development, regulatory and commercial milestones for agreements we have entered into with third parties, including contingent consideration incurred in the acquisitions of Teneobio and K-A. These payments are contingent upon the occurrence of various future events, substantially all of which have a high degree of uncertainty of occurring, and any resulting cash requirements are managed through our operational budgeting processes. Except with respect to the fair value of the contingent consideration of approximately $0.3 billion, these obligations are not recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2022, the maximum amount that may be payable in the future for agreements we have entered into with third parties is $5.6 billion. We have recorded liabilities for UTBs that, because of their nature, have a high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payment and other events that extinguish these liabilities. See Part IV—Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 70 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are included in Part IV—Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies. The following are considered critical to our consolidated financial statements because they require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because of the need to make estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Product sales and sales deductions Revenue from product sales is recognized upon transfer of control of a product to a customer, generally upon delivery, based on an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled, net of accruals for estimated rebates, wholesaler chargebacks, discounts and other deductions (collectively, sales deductions) and returns established at the time of sale. We analyze the adequacy of our accruals for sales deductions quarterly. Amounts accrued for sales deductions are adjusted when trends or significant events indicate that adjustment is appropriate. Accruals are also adjusted to reflect actual results. Amounts recorded in Accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for sales deductions were as follows (in millions): For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, total sales deductions were 51%, 47% and 44% of gross product sales, respectively. The increase in the total sales deductions balance as of December 31, 2022, compared with December 31, 2021, was primarily driven by the impact of higher U.S. chargeback and commercial rebate discount rates and an increase in gross sales, partially offset by timing of payments. Included in the amounts are immaterial net adjustments related to prior-year sales due to changes in estimates. In the United States, we use wholesalers as the principal means of distributing our products to healthcare providers such as physicians or their clinics, dialysis centers, hospitals and pharmacies. Products we sell in Europe are distributed principally to hospitals and/or wholesalers depending on the distribution practice in each country where the products are sold. We monitor the inventory levels of our products at our wholesalers by using data from our wholesalers and other third parties, and we believe wholesaler inventories have been maintained at appropriate levels (generally two to three weeks) given end-user demand. Accordingly, historical fluctuations in wholesaler inventory levels have not significantly affected our method of estimating sales deductions and returns. Accruals for sales deductions are based primarily on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. These estimates take into consideration current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, internal and external historical data and forecasted customer buying patterns. Sales deductions are substantially product specific and therefore, for any given year, can be affected by the mix of products sold. Rebates include primarily amounts paid to payers and providers in the United States, including those paid to state Medicaid programs, and are based on contractual arrangements or statutory requirements that vary by product, by payer and by individual payer plans. As we sell products, we estimate the amount of rebate we will pay based on the product sold, contractual terms, estimated patient population, historical experience and wholesaler inventory levels; and we accrue these rebates in the period the related sales are recorded. We then adjust the rebate accruals as more information becomes available and to reflect 71 actual claims experience. Estimating such rebates is complicated, in part because of the time delay between the date of sale and the actual settlement of the liability. We believe the methodology we use to accrue for rebates is reasonable and appropriate given current facts and circumstances, but actual results may differ. Wholesaler chargebacks relate to our contractual agreements to sell products to healthcare providers in the United States at fixed prices that are lower than the prices we charge wholesalers. When healthcare providers purchase our products through wholesalers at these reduced prices, wholesalers charge us for the difference between their purchase prices and the contractual prices between Amgen and the healthcare providers. The provision for chargebacks is based on expected sales by our wholesaler customers to healthcare providers. Accruals for wholesaler chargebacks are less difficult to estimate than rebates are, and they closely approximate actual results because chargeback amounts are fixed at the date of purchase by the healthcare providers and because we generally settle the liability for these deductions within a few weeks. Product returns Returns are estimated by comparison of historical return data to their related sales on a production lot basis. Historical rates of return are determined for each product and are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace specific to each product, when appropriate. In each of the past three years, sales return provisions have amounted to less than 1% of gross product sales. Changes in estimates for prior-year sales return provisions have historically been immaterial. Income taxes We provide for income taxes based on pretax income and applicable tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by tax authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements for a particular tax position is based on the largest benefit that is more likely than not to be realized. The amount of UTBs is adjusted as appropriate for changes in facts and circumstances, such as significant amendments to existing tax law, new regulations or interpretations by tax authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination or resolution of an examination. We believe our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and sufficient for any assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties, when appropriate, related to UTBs in income tax expense. Certain items are included in our tax return at different times than they are reflected in the financial statements, and they cause temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts. Such temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are generally items that can be used as tax deductions or credits in tax returns in future years but for which we have already recorded the tax benefit in the consolidated financial statements. We establish valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets when the amount of expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of the deduction or credit. Deferred tax liabilities are either (i) tax expenses recognized in the consolidated financial statements for which payment has been deferred, (ii) expenses for which we have already taken a deduction on the tax return but have not yet recognized in the consolidated financial statements or (iii) liabilities for the difference between the book basis and the tax basis of the intangible assets acquired in many business combinations, because future expenses associated with these assets most often will not be tax deductible. We are a vertically integrated enterprise with operations in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. In the jurisdictions where we conduct operations, we are subject to income tax based on the tax laws and principles of such jurisdictions and on the functions, risks and activities performed therein. Our pretax income is therefore attributed to domestic or foreign sources based on the operations performed and risks assumed in each location and the tax laws and principles of the respective taxing jurisdictions. For example, we conduct significant operations in Puerto Rico, a territory of the United States that is treated as a foreign jurisdiction for U.S. tax purposes, pertaining to manufacturing, distribution and other related functions to meet our worldwide product demand. Income from our operations in Puerto Rico is subject to tax incentive grants through 2050. In 2017, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2010–2012, proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2021, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest two duplicate Statutory Notices of Deficiency (Notices) for the years 2010–2012 that we received in May and July 2021, which seek to increase our U.S. taxable income for the years 2010–2012 by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $3.6 billion plus interest. Any additional tax that could be imposed for the years 2010–2012 would be reduced by up to approximately $900 million of repatriation tax previously accrued on our foreign earnings. 72 In 2020, we received an RAR and a modified RAR from the IRS for the years 2013–2015, also proposing significant adjustments that primarily relate to the allocation of profits between certain of our entities in the United States and the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico similar to those proposed for the years 2010–2012. We disagreed with the proposed adjustments and calculations and pursued resolution with the IRS appeals office but were unable to reach resolution. In July 2022, we filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court to contest a Notice for the years 2013–2015 that we received in April 2022 that seeks to increase our U.S. taxable income for the years 2013–2015 by an amount that would result in additional federal tax of approximately $5.1 billion, plus interest. In addition, the Notice asserts penalties of approximately $2.0 billion. Any additional tax that could be imposed for the years 2013–2015 would be reduced by up to approximately $2.2 billion of repatriation tax previously accrued on our foreign earnings. We firmly believe that the IRS positions set forth in the 2010–2012 and 2013–2015 Notices are without merit. We are contesting the 2010–2012 and 2013–2015 Notices through the judicial process. The two cases were consolidated in U.S. Tax Court on December 19, 2022. We are currently under examination by the IRS for the years 2016–2018 with respect to issues similar to those for the 2010 through 2015 period. In addition, we have examinations by a number of state and foreign tax jurisdictions. Final resolution of these complex matters is not li kely within the next 12 months. We believe our accrual for income tax liabilities is appropriate based on past experience, interpretations of tax law, application of the tax law to our facts and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities; however, due to the complexity of the provision for income taxes and uncertain resolution of these matters, the ultimate outcome of any tax matters may result in payments substantially greater than amounts accrued and could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors— The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability; Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations, Income taxes; and Part IV—Note 6, Income taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Our operations are subject to the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices of the United States, the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, U.S. state jurisdictions and other countries in which we do business. Significant changes in these rules could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors— The adoption and interpretation of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our profitability . Contingencies In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, government investigations and other matters such as intellectual property disputes, contractual disputes and class action suits that are complex in nature and have outcomes that are difficult to predict. We describe our legal proceedings and other matters that are significant or that we believe could become significant in Part IV—Note 19, Contingencies and commitments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We record accruals for loss contingencies to the extent that we conclude it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the related loss can be reasonably estimated. We evaluate, on a quarterly basis, developments in legal proceedings and other matters that could cause an increase or decrease in the amount of the liability that has been accrued previously. While it is not possible to accurately predict or determine the eventual outcomes of these items, an adverse determination in one or more of these items currently pending could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Valuation of assets and liabilities in connection with acquisitions We have acquired and continue to acquire intangible assets in connection with business combinations and asset acquisitions. These intangible assets consist primarily of technology associated with currently marketed human therapeutic products and IPR&D product candidates. Discounted cash flow models are typically used to determine the fair values of these intangible assets for purposes of allocating consideration paid to the net assets acquired in an acquisition. See Part IV—Note 2, Acquisitions and divestitures, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions, including but not limited to: • determining the timing and expected costs to complete in-process projects, taking into account the stage of completion at the acquisition date; • projecting the probability and timing of obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies for product candidates; • estimating the timing of and future net cash flows from product sales resulting from completed products and in-process projects; and 73 • developing appropriate discount rates to calculate the present values of the cash flows. Significant estimates and assumptions are also required to determine the business combination date fair values of any contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with business combinations. In addition, we must revalue these obligations each subsequent reporting period until the related contingencies are resolved and record changes in their fair values in earnings. The acquisition date fair values of contingent consideration obligations incurred or assumed in the acquisitions were determined using a combination of valuation techniques. Significant estimates and assumptions required for these valuations included but were not limited to the timing and probability of achieving regulatory milestones, product sales projections under various scenarios and discount rates used to calculate the present value of the required payments. These estimates and assumptions are required to be updated in order to revalue these contingent consideration obligations each reporting period. Accordingly, subsequent changes in underlying facts and circumstances could result in changes in these estimates and assumptions, which could have a material impact on the estimated future fair values of these obligations. We believe the fair values used to record intangible assets acquired and contingent consideration obligations incurred in connection with business combinations and asset acquisitions are based on reasonable estimates and assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related valuation dates. Impairment of long-lived assets We review the carrying value of our property, plant and equipment and our finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If such circumstances exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows to be generated by the long-lived asset is compared with the carrying value to determine whether an impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset’s fair value and its carrying value. Indefinite-lived intangible assets, composed of IPR&D projects acquired in a business combination that have not reached technological feasibility or that lack regulatory approval at the time of acquisition, are reviewed for impairment annually, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and upon establishment of technological feasibility or regulatory approval. We determine impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the asset’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference, and its carrying value is reduced accordingly. Estimating future cash flows of an IPR&D product candidate for purposes of an impairment analysis requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the amount and timing of costs to complete the project and the amount, timing and probability of achieving revenues from the completed product similar to how the acquisition date fair value of the project was determined, as described above. There are often major risks and uncertainties associated with IPR&D projects as we are required to obtain regulatory approvals in order to be able to market these products. Such approvals require completing clinical trials that demonstrate a product candidate is safe and effective. Consequently, the eventual realized value of the acquired IPR&D project may vary from its fair value at the date of acquisition, and IPR&D impairment charges may occur in future periods which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe our estimations of future cash flows used for assessing impairment of long-lived assets are based on reasonable assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related dates of the assessments. Impairment of equity method investments We review the carrying value of our equity method investments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an investment may not be recoverable. We record impairment losses on our equity method investments if we deem the impairment to be other-than-temporary. We deem an impairment to be other-than-temporary based on various factors, including but not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the fair value is below the carrying value, volatility of the security price, the financial condition of the issuer, changes in technology that may impair the earnings potential of the investment and our intent and ability to retain the investment to allow for a recovery in fair value. We believe our judgments used in assessing impairment of equity method investments are based on reasonable assumptions given the facts and circumstances as of the related dates of the assessments. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Part IV—Note 1, Summary of significant accounting policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of December 31, 2022. 74