********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risk Factors Summary The risk factors set forth below reflect risks associated with our businesses and the industries in which we operate generally. Some of the more significant risk factors are summarized below. Risks Related to Our Business • An overall decline in economic and business activity could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our business. • If our clients are not satisfied with our services, we may face additional cost, loss of profit opportunities, damage to our reputation, or legal liability. 10 • Revenues from commission arrangements may fluctuate due to many factors, including cyclical or permanent changes in the insurance and reinsurance markets outside of our control. Financial Risks • We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. Similarly, changes in interest rates and deterioration of credit quality could reduce the value of our cash balances and investment portfolios and adversely affect our financial condition or results. • A decline in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper may adversely affect our borrowing costs, access to capital, and financial flexibility. • Our global effective tax rate is subject to a variety of different factors, which could create volatility in that tax rate, expose us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, or cause us to adjust previously recognized tax assets and liabilities. • We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. Legal and Regulatory Risks • We are subject to E&O claims against us as well as other contingencies and legal proceedings, some of which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. • Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or subject us to legal and regulatory actions. Operational Risks • Our results of operations have been adversely affected and could be materially adversely affected in the future by the COVID-19 global pandemic. • Our success depends on our ability to retain, attract and develop experienced and qualified personnel, including our senior management team and other professional personnel. Risks Related to Technology, Cybersecurity, and Data Protection • We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption due to a breach in the security of our information technology systems could have a negative impact on our reputation, operations, sales, and operating results. • Improper disclosure of confidential, personal, or proprietary data could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability, or harm to our reputation. Risks Related to the Combination • The Combination is subject to customary closing conditions, including conditions related to regulatory approvals, and may not be completed on a timely basis, or at all, or may be completed on a basis that has a material impact on the value of the combined company. Failure to close the Combination could negatively impact our share price and future business and financial results. • While the Combination is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties related to our relationships with employees, clients and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business and operations. These uncertainties could also adversely affect the combined company following the Combination. Risks Related to Being a Non-U.S. Company • We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. • As an Irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions regarding the Company will require the approval of shareholders, which may limit the Company’s flexibility to manage its capital structure. Risk Factors The risk factors set forth below reflect risks associated with our existing and potential businesses and the industries in which we operate generally and contain “forward-looking statements” as discussed in the “Business” Section of Part I, Item 1 of this report. Readers should consider these risks in addition to the other information contained in this report because our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any of these risks were to actually 11 occur and the occurrence of such risks could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated in or implied by the forward-looking statements in this document and elsewhere. Risks Related to Our Business An overall decline in economic and business activity could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of our business. The results of our operations are generally affected by the level of business activity of our clients, which in turn is affected by the economy of the industries and markets these clients serve. Economic downturns, volatility, or uncertainty in the broader economy or in specific markets may cause reductions in technology and discretionary spending by our clients, which may result in reductions in the growth of new business or reductions in existing business. If our clients become financially less stable, enter bankruptcy, liquidate their operations or consolidate, our revenues and collectability of receivables could be adversely affected. The demand for property and casualty insurance generally rises as the overall level of economic activity increases and generally falls as such activity decreases, affecting both the commissions and fees generated by our Commercial Risk Solutions, Reinsurance Solutions, and Data and Analytic Service lines. The economic activity that impacts property and casualty insurance is most closely correlated with employment levels, corporate revenues, and asset values. Downward fluctuations in the year-over-year insurance premiums charged by insurers to protect against the same risk, referred to in the industry as softening of the insurance market, could adversely affect these businesses as a significant portion of the earnings are determined as a percentage of premiums charged to our clients. Insolvencies and consolidations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. Also, error and omission claims against us, which we refer to as E&O claims, may increase in economic downturns, also adversely affecting our business. We face significant competitive pressures from traditional and non-traditional competitors that could affect our market share. As a global professional services firm, we compete with global, national, regional, and local insurance companies that market and service their own products, other financial services providers, brokers, and investment managers, independent firms, and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology, and financial services firms. We compete with respect to service, delivery of insights, product features, price, commission structure, technology, financial strength, ability to access certain insurance markets, and name recognition. Our competitors may have better financial, technical and marketing resources, broader customer bases, greater name recognition, more comprehensive products, stronger presence in certain geographies, or more established relationships with their customers and suppliers than we have. In addition, alliances among competitors or mergers of competitors could affect our market share, and some of our competitors may have or may develop a lower cost structure, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, or provide services that gain greater market acceptance than the services that we offer or develop. Our competitors may be more successful in innovating and delivering services to meet new and existing client needs. Competitors may be able to respond to the need for technological changes, innovate faster, respond better to evolving client demand and industry conditions, or price their services more aggressively than we do. They may also compete for skilled professionals, finance acquisitions, fund internal growth, and compete for market share more effectively than we do. Further, new and non- traditional competitors, our clients’ increasing ability and determination to self-insure, and capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance markets cause additional forms of competition and innovation that could affect our market share. This competition is further intensified by an industry trend where clients engage multiple brokers to service different portions of their accounts. If we fail to respond successfully to the to the evolving competition we face, our financial condition or results of operations might be adversely affected. If our clients are not satisfied with our services, we may face additional cost, loss of profit opportunities, damage to our reputation, or legal liability. We depend, to a large extent, on our relationships with our clients and our reputation for high-quality advice and solutions. If a client is not satisfied with our services, it could cause us to incur additional costs and impair profitability, or lose the client relationship altogether. Moreover, if we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability or loss of client relationships. The nature of much of our work involves assumptions and estimates concerning future events, the actual outcome of which we cannot know with certainty in advance. For example, in our investment consulting business, we may be measured based on our track record regarding judgments and advice on investments that are susceptible to influences unknown at the time the advice was given. In addition, we could make computational, software programming, or data entry or management errors. A client may claim it suffered losses due to reliance on our consulting advice, which poses risks of liability exposure and costs of defense and increased insurance premiums. Many of our clients are businesses that actively share information among themselves about the quality of service they receive from their vendors. Accordingly, poor service to one client may negatively impact our relationships with multiple other clients. 12 Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. We advise our clients on and provide services related to a wide range of subjects and our ability to attract and retain clients is highly dependent upon the external perceptions of our level of service, trustworthiness, business practices, financial condition, and other subjective qualities. Negative perceptions or publicity regarding these matters or others could erode trust and confidence and damage our reputation among existing and potential clients and existing and future employees, which could make it difficult for us to attract new clients and employees and retain existing ones. Negative public opinion could also result from actual or alleged conduct by us or those currently or formerly associated with us. Damage to our reputation could affect the confidence of our clients, rating agencies, regulators, stockholders, employees and third parties in transactions that are important to our business adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and operating results. Revenues from commission arrangements may fluctuate due to many factors, including cyclical or permanent changes in the insurance and reinsurance markets outside of our control. Revenues from commission arrangements have historically been affected by significant fluctuations arising from uncertainties and changes in the industries in which we operate. A significant portion of our revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. We have no control over premium rates, and our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. The potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by: • the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs, including a greater willingness on the part of corporations to “self-insure,” the use of so-called “captive” insurers, and the development of capital markets-based solutions and other alternative capital sources for traditional insurance and reinsurance needs that increase market capacity, increase competition, and put pressure on pricing; • fluctuation in the need for insurance; • the level of compensation, as a percentage of premium, that insurance carriers are willing to compensate brokers for placement activity; • the growing desire of clients to move away from variable commission rates and instead compensate brokers based upon flat fees, which can negatively impact us as fees are not generally indexed for inflation and do not automatically increase with premium as does commission-based compensation; and • competition from insurers seeking to sell their products directly to consumers, including online sales, without the involvement of an insurance broker • growing number of technology-enabled competitors offering new risk-transfer solutions that eliminate the traditional broker-client relationship in both commercial insurance and reinsurance markets The profitability of our consulting engagements with clients may not meet our expectations due to unexpected costs, cost overruns, early contract terminations, unrealized assumptions used in our contract bidding process or the inability to maintain our prices. Our profitability with respect to consulting engagements is highly dependent upon our ability to control our costs and improve our efficiency. As we adapt to changes in our business and the market, adapt to the regulatory environment, enter into new engagements, acquire additional businesses, and take on new employees in new locations, we may not be able to manage our large, diverse and changing workforce, control our costs, or improve our efficiency. Our profit margin, and therefore our profitability, is largely a function of the rates we are able to charge for our services and the staffing costs for our personnel. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the rates we charge for our services or appropriately manage the staffing costs of our personnel, we may not be able to sustain our profit margin and our profitability will suffer. The prices we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including competitive factors, the extent of ongoing clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services, and general economic conditions. If we cannot drive suitable cost efficiencies, our profit margins will suffer. Our cost efficiencies may also be impacted by factors such as our ability to transition consultants from completed projects to new assignments, our ability to secure new consulting engagements, our ability to forecast demand for consulting services (and, consequently, appropriately manage the size and location of our workforce), employee attrition, and the need to devote time and resources to training and professional and business development. 13 In our investment consulting business, we advise or act on behalf of clients regarding their investments. The results of these investments are uncertain and subject to numerous factors, some of which are within our control and some which are not. Clients that experience losses or lower than expected investment returns may leave us for competitors and/or assert claims against us. Our investment consulting business provides advice to clients on: investment strategy, which can include advice on setting investment objectives, asset allocation, and hedging strategies; selection (or removal) of investment managers; the investment in different investment instruments and products; and the selection of other investment service providers such as custodians and transition managers. For some clients, we are responsible for making decisions on these matters and we may implement such decisions in a fiduciary or agency capacity without assuming title over the underlying funds or assets invested. Asset classes may experience poor absolute performance and third parties we recommend or select, such as investment managers, may underperform their benchmarks due to poor market performance, negligence, or other reasons, resulting in poor investment returns or losses. These losses may be attributable in whole or in part to failures on our part or to events entirely outside of our control, including but not limited to uncertainty or volatility in financial markets due to economic, political, and regulatory conditions or pandemics. Plaintiffs have, and may continue to, file individual and class action lawsuits alleging investment consultants have charged excessive fees, given improper advice due to conflicts of interest, or recommended investments that underperformed other investments available at the time. Defending against these claims can involve potentially significant costs, including legal defense costs, as well as cause substantial distraction and diversion of other resources. If any lawsuit – against the Company or any other investment consultant – results in a large adverse verdict, the size of the verdict or resultant negative adverse publicity may prompt the filing of additional lawsuits. Furthermore, our ability to limit our potential liability is restricted in certain jurisdictions and in connection with claims involving breaches of fiduciary or agency duties or other alleged errors or omissions. The anticipated benefits of the redomiciliation from the U.K. to Ireland may not be realized. In April 2020, we changed the jurisdiction of incorporation for our parent company from the U.K. to Ireland by means of a scheme of arrangement under English law (the “Reorganization”). At the time of the Reorganization we expected, and we continue to expect, that the Reorganization will, among other things, provide greater certainty around ongoing access to existing U.S. treaties with other EU member countries from which we derive benefit. However, we may not realize the benefits we anticipate from the Reorganization, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Financial Risks We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. We face exposure to adverse movements in exchange rates of currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, as a significant portion of our business is located outside of the U.S. These exposures may change over time, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Approximately 55% of our consolidated revenue is non-U.S., attributed on the basis of where the services are performed, and the exposures created can have significant currency volatility. These currency exchange fluctuations create risk in both the translation of the financial results of our global subsidiaries into U.S. dollars for our consolidated financial statements, as well as in those of our operations that receive revenue and incur expenses other than in their respective local currencies, which can reduce the profitability of our operations based on the direction the respective currencies’ exchange rates move. A decrease in the value of certain currencies relative to other currencies could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that benefit to a greater degree from a specific exchange rate move and can, as a result, deliver services at a lower cost or receive greater revenues from such a transaction. Although we use various derivative financial instruments to help protect against certain adverse foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we cannot eliminate such risks, and, as a result, changes in exchange rates may adversely affect our results. For example, the strengthening of the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies might adversely affect the value of our products and services when translated to U.S. dollar, even if the value of such products and services has not changed in their original currency. Changes in interest rates and deterioration of credit quality could reduce the value of our cash balances and investment portfolios and adversely affect our financial condition or results. Operating funds available for corporate use were $1,192 million at December 31, 2020 and are reported in Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments. Of the total balance, $102 million was restricted to its use as of December 31, 2020. Funds held on behalf of clients and insurers were $5.7 billion at December 31, 2020 and are reported in Fiduciary assets. We also carry an investment portfolio of other long-term investments. As of December 31, 2020, these long-term investments had a carrying value of $74 million. Adverse changes in interest rates, performance, and counterparty credit quality, including default, could reduce the value of these funds and investments, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results. We may experience reduced investment earnings on our cash and short-term investments of fiduciary and operating funds if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels or fall below their current levels, or if negative yields on deposits or investments are experienced, as we have experienced in Japan and certain jurisdictions in the E.U. On the other hand, higher interest rates could result in a higher discount rate used by investors to value our future cash flows thereby resulting in a lower valuation of the Company. In addition, during times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial losses for us as a result of our cash or other investments with such counterparties, as well as substantial losses for our clients and the insurance companies with which we work. 14 Our pension obligations and value of our pension assets could adversely affect our shareholders’ equity, net income, cash flow, and liquidity. To the extent that the pension obligations associated with our pension plans continue to exceed the fair value of the assets supporting those obligations, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. In particular, lower interest rates and investment returns could result in the present value of plan liabilities increasing at a greater rate than the value of plan assets, resulting in higher unfunded positions in our pension plans. In addition, the periodic revision of pension assumptions or variances of actual results from our assumptions can materially change the present value of expected future benefits, and therefore the funded status of the plans and resulting net periodic pension expense. As a result, we may experience future changes in the funded status of our plans that could require us to make additional cash contributions beyond those that have been estimated and which could adversely affect shareholders’ equity, net income, cash flow and liquidity. Our worldwide pension plans are significant, and therefore our pension contributions and expense are sensitive to various market, demographic, and other factors. These factors include equity and bond market returns, fair value of pension assets, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, foreign exchange rates, rates of inflation, mortality assumptions, potential regulatory and legal changes or developments, and counterparty exposure from various investments and derivative contracts, including annuities. Variations or developments in connection with any of these factors could cause significant changes to our financial position and results of operations from year to year. In addition, contributions are generally based on statutory requirements and local funding practices, which may differ from measurements under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”). We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility. As of December 31, 2020, we had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $7.7 billion. The level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility by reducing our ability to use cash from operations for other purposes, including working capital, dividends to shareholders, share repurchases, acquisitions, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We also are subject to risks that, at the time any of our outstanding debt matures, we will not be able to retire or refinance the debt on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. As of December 31, 2020, we had two committed credit facilities outstanding. Each of these facilities is intended to support our commercial paper obligations and our general working capital needs. In addition, each of these facilities included customary representations, warranties, and covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain specified ratios of adjusted consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense and consolidated debt to adjusted consolidated EBITDA, tested quarterly. A substantial portion of our outstanding debt, including certain intercompany debt obligations, contains financial and other covenants. The terms of these covenants may limit our ability to obtain, or increase the costs of obtaining, additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate requirements. This in turn may have the impact of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, thereby placing us at a relative disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness, or fewer or less onerous covenants associated with such indebtedness, and making us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity, or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments, and alliances, any of which could impede the implementation of our business strategy or prevent us from entering into transactions that would otherwise benefit our business. Additionally, we may not be able to take such actions or refinance any of our debt, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A decline in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper may adversely affect our borrowing costs, access to capital, and financial flexibility. A downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt and commercial paper could increase our borrowing costs, reduce or eliminate our access to capital, reduce our financial flexibility, and limit our ability to implement on corporate strategy. Our senior debt ratings at December 31, 2020 were A- with a stable outlook (Standard & Poor’s, or “S&P”), BBB+ with a negative outlook (Fitch, Inc., or “Fitch”), and Baa2 with a stable outlook (Moody’s Investor Services, or “Moody’s”). Our commercial paper ratings were A-2 (S&P), F-2 (Fitch) and P-2 (Moody’s). Real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect any trading market for, or trading value of, our securities. Such changes could result from any number of factors, including the modification by a credit rating agency of the criteria or methodology it applies to particular issuers, a change in the agency’s view of us (currently or as a combined company after the closing of the transaction with WTW) or our industry, or as a consequence of actions we take to implement our corporate strategies. A change in our credit rating could adversely limit our access to capital and our competitive position. Our global effective tax rate is subject to a variety of different factors, which could create volatility in that tax rate, expose us to greater than anticipated tax liabilities or cause us to adjust previously recognized tax assets and liabilities. We are, and anticipate we will be, subject to income taxes in Ireland, the U.K., the U.S. and many other jurisdictions. As a result, our global effective tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation or regulations, the continuing development of regulations and other governmental action that affect the application of such legislation, our global mix of earnings, the use of global funding structures, the tax characteristics of our income, the effect of 15 complying with transfer pricing requirements under laws of many different countries on our revenues and costs, the consequences of acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and business segments. In addition, we could be subject to increased taxation as a result of changes in eligibility for the benefits of current income tax treaties between and among Ireland, the U.K., the U.S and other countries, including any future amendments to the current income tax treaties between and among such countries, or any new statutory or regulatory provisions that might limit our ability to take advantage of any such treaties. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and our determination of the amount of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities. Our actual global tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. We are, and anticipate we will be, subject to tax audits conducted by Ireland, the U.K., the U.S., and other tax authorities, and the resolution of such audits could impact our tax rate in future periods, as would any reclassification or other changes (such as those in applicable accounting rules) that increases the amounts we have provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. The tax laws and regulations in Ireland, the U.K., the U.S., and the other tax jurisdictions in which the we operate are inherently complex, and we will be obligated to make judgments and interpretations about the application of these laws and regulations to our operations and businesses. The interpretation and application of these laws and regulations could be challenged by the relevant governmental authorities, which could result in administrative or judicial procedures, actions or sanctions, which could be material. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in attempting to mitigate the adverse impacts resulting from any changes in tax laws and regulations, including any changes in the interpretation of such tax authorities, or from audits and other matters. Our inability to mitigate the negative consequences of such actions could cause our global effective tax rate to increase, our use of cash to increase and our financial condition and results of operations to suffer. The global effective tax rate that will apply subsequent to Brexit might become uncertain and may vary from expectations. As further discussed below, on January 31, 2020, the U.K. withdrew as a member of the E.U., commonly referred to as Brexit, and the UK has since ratified a trade and cooperation agreement governing its future relationship with the E.U., which is being applied provisionally from January 1, 2021 until it is also ratified by the European Parliament and the Council of the E.U. The changes (which are ongoing) in applicable law and regulatory oversight of our operations caused by Brexit in the U.K. and the member states of the E.U. will impact how we conduct business in the U.K., within the E.U., and between the U.K. and the E.U., which may result in changes in the countries in which we derive a portion of our global earnings. As a result, our actual global effective tax rate may vary from expectations and that variance may be material as a result of Brexit. Changes in our accounting estimates and assumptions could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These accounting principles require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements. We are also required to make certain judgments that affect the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates and assumptions including, but not limited to, those relating to revenue recognition, pensions, recoverability of assets including customer receivables, valuation of goodwill and intangibles, contingencies, share-based payments, and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on specific circumstances. These assumptions and estimates involve the exercise of judgment and discretion, which may evolve over time in light of operational experience, regulatory direction, developments or changes in accounting principles or standards, and other factors. Actual results could differ from these estimates, or changes in assumptions, estimates, policies, or developments in the business may change our initial estimates, which could materially affect the Consolidated Statements of Income, Comprehensive Income, Financial Position, Shareholders’ Equity, and Cash Flows. We may be required to record goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges, which could result in a significant charge to earnings. Under U.S. GAAP, we review our long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is assessed for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or other long-lived assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our share price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We may experience unforeseen circumstances that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or other long- lived assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded goodwill and other long-lived assets. Future goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other payments in needed amounts from our subsidiaries. The Company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating entities. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, our principal assets are the shares of capital stock of our subsidiaries. We rely on dividends, interest, and other payments from these subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying 16 principal and interest on outstanding debt, paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing ordinary shares, and corporate expenses. Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements of the jurisdictions in which they operate or other restrictions that may limit the amounts that subsidiaries can pay in dividends or other payments to us. No assurance can be given that there will not be further changes in law, regulatory actions, or other circumstances that could restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise make payments to us. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that our subsidiaries may be able to make timely payments to us in order for us to meet our obligations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to E&O claims against us as well as other contingencies and legal proceedings, some of which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We assist our clients with various matters, including advising on and placing insurance and reinsurance coverage and handling related claims, consulting on various human resources matters, and providing actuarial, investment consulting, and asset management services. E&O claims against us may allege our potential liability for damages arising from these services. E&O claims could include, for example, the failure of our employees or sub-agents, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage correctly or notify carriers of claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured, or the failure to give error-free consulting or investment advice. It is not always possible to prevent and detect E&O, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. In addition, we are subject to other types of claims, litigation, and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, which along with E&O claims, may seek damages, including punitive damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position, earnings, and cash flows. In addition to potential liability for monetary damages, such claims or outcomes could harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. We have historically purchased, and intend to continue to purchase, insurance to cover E&O claims and other insurance to provide protection against certain losses that arise in such matters. However, we have exhausted or materially depleted our coverage under some of the policies that protect us for certain years and, consequently, are self-insured or materially self-insured for some historical claims. Additionally, parts or all of an E&O claim could fall within insurance deductibles, self-insured retentions, or policy exclusions. Accruals for these exposures, and related insurance receivables, when applicable, have been provided to the extent that losses are deemed probable and are reasonably estimable. These accruals and receivables are adjusted from time to time as developments warrant and may also be adversely affected by disputes we may have with our insurers over coverage. Amounts related to settlement provisions are recorded in Other general expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Discussion of some of these claims, lawsuits, and proceedings are contained in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we provide a variety of guarantees and indemnifications to our customers and others. In the event of a default, our potential exposure is equal to the amount of the guarantee or indemnification. The ultimate outcome of claims, lawsuits, proceedings, guarantees and indemnifications cannot be ascertained, and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on us. It is possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. Our businesses are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which could reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or subject us to legal and regulatory actions. Our businesses are subject to extensive legal and regulatory oversight throughout the world, including the Irish Companies Act, the U.S. securities laws, rules, and regulations, the rules and regulations promulgated by the FCA and a variety of other laws, rules, and regulations addressing, among other things, licensing, data privacy and protection, trade sanctions laws, restrictions and export controls, anti-money laundering, wage-and-hour standards, employment and labor relations, anti-competition, anti-corruption, currency, reserves, government contracting, and the amount of local investment with respect to our operations in certain countries. This legal and regulatory oversight could reduce our profitability or limit our growth by: increasing the costs of legal and regulatory compliance; limiting or restricting the products or services we sell, the markets we serve or enter, the methods by which we sell our products and services, the overall structure of our business units, the type of services and prices we can charge for our services, or the form of compensation we can accept from our clients, carriers, and third parties; or by subjecting our businesses to the possibility of legal and regulatory actions, proceedings, or fines. The global nature of our operations increases the complexity and cost of compliance with laws and regulations adding to our cost of doing business. In addition, many of these laws and regulations may have differing or conflicting legal standards across jurisdictions, increasing the complexity and cost of compliance. In emerging markets and other jurisdictions with less developed legal systems, local laws and regulations may not be established with sufficiently clear and reliable guidance to provide us adequate assurance that we are operating our business in a compliant manner with all required licenses or that our rights are otherwise protected. In addition, certain laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act in the U.S., and the Bribery Act of 2010 in the U.K., impact our operations outside of the legislating country by imposing requirements for the conduct of overseas operations, and in several cases, requiring compliance by foreign subsidiaries. In addition to the complexity of the laws and regulations themselves, the development of new laws and regulations or changes in application or interpretation of current laws and regulations or conflict between them also increases our legal and regulatory compliance complexity. Additionally, our acquisitions of new businesses and our continued operational changes and entry into new jurisdictions and new service offerings increases our legal and regulatory compliance complexity, as well as the 17 type of governmental oversight to which we may be subject. Changes in laws and regulations could mandate significant and costly changes to the way we implement our services and solutions, impose additional licensure requirements or costs to our operations and services, or cause us to cease offering certain services or solutions. Furthermore, as we enter new jurisdictions or businesses and further develop and expand our services, including through acquisitions, we may become subject to additional types of laws and governmental oversight and supervision, such as those applicable to the financial lending or other service institutions. Regulatory developments that could result in changes that adversely affect us or cause us to change our business or operations include: additional requirements respecting data privacy, data security, and data usage in jurisdictions in which we operate that may increase our costs of compliance and potentially reduce the manner in which we can use data; changes in tax regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate; regulatory actions or changes that require us to change our compensation model; or additional regulations promulgated by , regulatory bodies in jurisdictions in which we operate. In all jurisdictions, the applicable laws and regulations are subject to amendment or interpretation by regulatory authorities. Generally, such authorities are vested with relatively broad discretion to grant, renew, and revoke licenses and approvals and to implement regulations. Accordingly, we may have a license revoked or be unable to obtain new licenses and therefore be precluded or suspended from carrying on or developing some or all of our activities or otherwise fined or penalized in a given jurisdiction. No assurances can be given that our business can further develop or continue to be conducted in any given jurisdiction in the future as it has been conducted in the past. Changes in the regulatory scheme, or even changes in how existing regulations are interpreted, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations by limiting revenue streams or increasing costs of compliance. Our business’ regulatory oversight also includes licensing of insurance brokers and agents, managing general agency or general underwriting operations, and the regulation of the handling and investment of client funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Our continuing ability to provide insurance broking in the jurisdictions in which we operate depends on our compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the regulatory authorities in each of these jurisdictions. Also, we can be affected indirectly by the governmental regulation and supervision of insurance companies. For instance, if we are providing or managing general underwriting services for an insurer, we may have to contend with regulations affecting our client. Services provided in our Health Solutions and Retirement Solutions service lines are also the subject of ever-evolving government regulation, either because the services provided to our clients are regulated directly or because third parties upon whom we rely to provide services to clients are regulated, thereby indirectly affecting the manner in which we provide services to those clients. In particular, our health care exchange business depends upon the private sector of the U.S. insurance system and its role in financing health care delivery, and insurance carriers’ use and payment of commissions to agents, brokers, and other organizations to market and sell individual and family health insurance products and plans. Uncertainty regarding, or any changes to, state or federal law, or the interpretation of such law by applicable regulatory agencies could delay client adoption of our health care exchanges, impair our ability to retain clients who have adopted our health care exchanges, or cause insurance carriers to alter or eliminate the products and plans that they offer or attempt to move members into new products or plans for which we receive lower commissions. In addition, changes in laws, government regulations, or the way those regulations are interpreted in the jurisdictions in which we operate could affect the viability, value, use, or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans (such as medical), defined contribution plans (such as 401(k)), or defined benefit plans (such as pension), may adversely affect the demand for, or profitability of, our services. If we violate the laws and regulations to which we are subject, we could be subject to fines, penalties, or criminal sanctions and could be prohibited from conducting business in one or more countries. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these laws and regulations, causing an adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Heightened regulatory oversight and scrutiny may lead to additional regulatory investigations, increased government involvement, or enforcement actions, which could consume significant management time and resources and could have adverse effects on our business and operations. For instance, increased scrutiny by competition authorities may increase our costs of doing business or force us to change the way we conduct business or refrain from or otherwise alter the way we engage in certain activities. Additionally, we could suffer significant financial or reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest, which exist or could exist any time we or any of our employees have or may have an interest in a transaction or engagement that is inconsistent with our clients’ interests. This could occur, for example, when we are providing services to multiple parties in connection with a transaction. We also provide services to advise and assist in satisfying all our clients’ needs from all our businesses, creating a greater potential for conflicts with advisory services. Due to the broad scope of our businesses and our client base, we regularly address potential conflicts of interest, including, without limitation, situations where our services to a particular client or our own investments or other interests conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client. If these are not adequately identified and managed, this could then lead to failure or perceived failure to protect the client’s interests, with consequential regulatory and reputational risks, including litigation or enforcement actions that could adversely affect us and our operations. Identifying conflicts of interest may also prove particularly difficult as we continue to bring systems and information together and integrate newly acquired businesses. In addition, we may not be able to adequately address such conflicts of interest. Insurance intermediaries have traditionally been remunerated by base commissions paid by insurance carriers in respect of insurance placements for clients, or by fees paid by clients. Intermediaries also obtain other revenue from insurance carriers. This revenue, when derived from carriers in their capacity as insurance markets (as opposed to as corporate clients of the 18 intermediaries where they may be purchasing insurance or reinsurance or other non-market related services), is commonly known as market derived income (“MDI”). MDI is another example of an area in which potential conflicts of interest may arise. This revenue may be subject to scrutiny by various regulators under conflict of interest, anti-trust, unfair competition, conduct and anti-bribery laws and regulations. MDI takes a variety of forms, including volume- or profit-based contingent commissions, facilities administration charges, business development agreements, and fees for providing consulting services to carriers. While accepting MDI is a lawful and acceptable business practice, we cannot predict whether our position will result in regulatory or other scrutiny and our controls may not be fully effective. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, could harm our reputation, ability to compete effectively, and financial condition. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements, and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, employees, clients, strategic partners, and others, as well as internal policies and procedures regarding our management of intellectual property. However, the protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Further, we operate in many jurisdictions and effective trademark, copyright, patent, and trade secret protection may not be available or adequate in every country or jurisdiction in which we offer our services or employ our colleagues. Additionally, our competitors may develop products similar to our products that do not conflict with our related intellectual property rights. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. Third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims against us, which may be costly to defend, could require the payment of damages, and could limit our ability to use or offer certain technologies, products, or other intellectual property. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Successful challenges against us could require us to modify or discontinue our use of technology or business processes where such use is found to infringe or violate the rights of others, or require us to purchase licenses from third parties, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Operational Risks Our results of operations have been adversely affected and could be materially adversely affected in the future by the COVID-19 global pandemic. The COVID-19 global pandemic has created significant public health concerns and significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic disruption in every region where we operate. A number of evolving factors related to the global pandemic and the post-pandemic recovery period may influence the duration, nature and extent of the impact on our business and financial results. Such factors include worldwide macroeconomic conditions, including interest rates, employment rates, consumer confidence and spending, gross domestic product, property values, and changes in client behavior, and foreign exchange rates in each of the markets in which we operate; business closures; changes in laws, regulations (including those changes that may provide for extended premium payment terms), and guidance; court decisions and litigation trends; a decline in business and the ability of counterparties to pay for our services on time or at all; an increased number of E&O claims in those areas impacted by the pandemic, as well as an increase in the incidence or severity of E&O claims against us and our market partners; our ability to sell and provide our services, including due to the impact of travel restrictions, lockdowns, quarantines, social distancing, and alternative work arrangements; the health of, and the effect of the pandemic on, our employees; political disruption; potential effects on our internal controls and risk mitigation processes, including those over financial reporting, as a result of changes in working environments for our employees and business partners; resurgences of spread; identification of new, more contagious variants of the virus; resulting “lockdowns,” government restrictions or recommendations; and uncertainties in vaccine manufacturing, accessibility and adoption. In addition, the continuing COVID-19 pandemic may again create significant disruptions in the credit or financial markets, or impact our credit ratings, which could adversely affect our ability to access capital on favorable terms or at all. Finally, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may heighten other risks discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and stock price. The economic and political conditions of the countries and regions in which we operate could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity, and prospects for growth. Our operations in countries undergoing political change or experiencing economic instability are subject to uncertainty and risks that could materially adversely affect our business. These risks include, particularly in emerging markets, the possibility we would be subject to undeveloped or evolving legal systems, unstable governments and economies, and potential governmental actions affecting the flow of goods, services, and currency. Furthermore, the U.K. formally withdrew from the E.U., commonly referred to as Brexit, and ratified a trade cooperation agreement governing its future relationship with the E.U. The agreement, which is being applied provisionally from January 1, 2021 until it is ratified by the European Parliament and the Council of the E.U., addresses trade, economic arrangements, law 19 enforcement, judicial cooperation and a governance framework including procedures for dispute resolution, among other things. Because the agreement merely sets forth a framework in many respects and will require complex additional bilateral negotiations between the U.K. and the E.U. as both parties continue to work on the rules for implementation, significant political and economic uncertainty remains. We have significant operations and a substantial workforce within the country, and we enjoy certain benefits based on the U.K.’s membership in the E.U., and the lack of clarity around the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. creates uncertainty that may have a material impact on our business and operations. We may also be required to incur additional expense as we adapt to and create the ability to operate within the new political and regulatory environment. Additionally, any development that has the effect of devaluing the euro or British pound could meaningfully reduce the value of our assets and reduce the usefulness of liquidity alternatives denominated in that currency such as our multicurrency U.S. credit facility. We also deposit some of our cash, including cash held in a fiduciary capacity, with certain European financial institutions. While we continuously monitor and manage exposures associated with those deposits, to the extent the uncertainty surrounding economic stability in Europe and the future viability of the euro suddenly and adversely impacts those financial institutions, some or all of those cash deposits could be at risk. Our success depends on our ability to retain, attract and develop experienced and qualified personnel, including our senior management team and other professional personnel. We depend, in material part, upon the members of our senior management team who possess extensive knowledge and a deep understanding of our business and our strategy, as well as the colleagues who are critical to developing and retaining client relationships. The unexpected loss of services of any of these senior leaders could have a disruptive effect adversely impacting our ability to manage our business effectively and execute our business strategy. Competition for experienced professional personnel is intense, and we are constantly working to retain, attract and develop these professionals. If we cannot successfully do so, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. While we have plans for key management succession and long-term compensation plans designed to retain our senior management team and critical colleagues, if our succession plans and retention programs do not operate effectively, our business could be adversely affected. We also are committed to diversity and inclusion and strive to maintain an equitable work environment that unlocks the full potential of all of our personnel. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining such a work environment, we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining personnel, which could have a negative impact on our business. Our global operations expose us to various international risks that could adversely affect our business. Our operations are conducted globally. Accordingly, we are subject to regulatory, legal, economic, and market risks associated with operating in, and sourcing from, foreign countries, including: • difficulties in staffing and managing our foreign offices, including due to unexpected wage inflation or job turnover, and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal and compliance costs and risks associated with multiple international locations; • hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; • conflicting regulations in the countries in which we do business; • imposition of investment requirements or other restrictions by foreign governments; • longer payment cycles; • greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • insufficient demand for our services in foreign jurisdictions; • our ability to execute effective and efficient cross-border sourcing of services on behalf of our clients; • the reliance on or use of third parties to perform services on behalf of the Company; • disparate tax regimes; • restrictions on the import and export of technologies; and • trade barriers. The occurrence of natural or man-made disasters could result in declines in business and increases in claims that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to various risks arising out of natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods, tornadoes, extreme weather, or other climate events; pandemic health events, and man-made disasters, including acts of terrorism, civil unrest, violence, military actions, and cyber-terrorism. The continued threat of terrorism and other events or disasters may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, and a natural or man-made disaster could trigger energy shortages, public health issues, or an economic downturn or instability in the areas directly or indirectly affected by the disaster. These 20 consequences could, among other things, result in a decline in business and increased claims from those areas. They could also result in reduced underwriting capacity, making it more difficult for our professionals to place business. Disasters also could disrupt public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, which could disrupt our normal business operations. A natural or man-made disaster also could disrupt the operations of our counterparties or result in increased prices for the products and services they provide to us. In addition, a disaster could adversely affect the value of the assets in our investment portfolio. Finally, a natural or man-made disaster could increase the incidence or severity of E&O claims against us. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, or legal liability. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our personnel, offices, and technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. Should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a security incident or attack, a natural disaster, climate event, terrorist attack, pandemic, power loss, telecommunications failure, or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel and office facilities, and the proper functioning of computer systems, telecommunications, and other related systems and operations. In events like these, while our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems provide us with some degree of flexibility, we still can experience near-term operational challenges in particular areas of our operations. We could potentially lose access to key executives, personnel, or client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. A disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships, or legal liability. We rely on third parties to perform key functions of our business operations enabling our provision of services to our clients. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. We rely on third parties, and in some cases subcontractors, to provide services, data, and information such as technology, information security, funds transfers, data processing, support functions, and administration that are critical to the operations of our business. These third parties include correspondents, agents and other brokerage and intermediaries, insurance markets, data providers, plan trustees, payroll service providers, benefits administrators, software and system vendors, health plan providers, investment managers, and providers of human resources, among others. As we do not fully control the actions of these third parties, we are subject to the risk that their decisions, actions, or inactions may adversely impact us and replacing these service providers could create significant delay and expense. A failure by third parties to comply with service level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements in a high quality and timely manner, particularly during periods of our peak demand for their services, could result in economic and reputational harm to us. In addition, we face risks as we transition from in-house functions to third- party support functions and providers that there may be disruptions in service or other unintended results that may adversely affect our business operations. These third parties face their own technology, operating, business, and economic risks, and any significant failures by them, including the improper use or disclosure of our confidential client, employee, or company information, could cause harm to our business and reputation. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any service provider as a result of systems failures, cybersecurity incidents, capacity constraints, financial difficulties, or for any other reason could disrupt our operations, impact our ability to offer certain products and services, and result in contractual or regulatory penalties, liability claims from clients, or employees, damage to our reputation, and harm to our business. Our business is exposed to risks associated with the handling of client funds. Certain of our businesses collect premiums from insureds and remits the premiums to the respective insurers. We also collect claims or refunds from insurers on behalf of insureds, which are then remitted to the insureds. Consequently, at any given time, we may be holding and managing funds of our clients. This function creates a risk of loss arising from, among other things, fraud by employees or third parties, execution of unauthorized transactions, errors relating to transaction processing, or other cybersecurity events or security breaches. We are also potentially at risk in the event the financial institution in which we hold these funds suffers any kind of insolvency or liquidity event. The occurrence of any of these types of events in connection with this function could cause us financial loss and reputational harm. In connection with the implementation of our corporate strategies and initiatives, we face risks associated with, among others, the acquisition or disposition of businesses, the integration and development of acquired businesses, and the entry into new lines of business or products. In pursuing our corporate strategy, we often acquire other businesses or dispose of or exit businesses we currently own and we routinely are actively engaged in the process of identifying, analyzing, and negotiating possible transactions. The success of this strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition targets, negotiate transactions on favorable terms, complete transactions and, in the case of acquisitions, successfully integrate them into our existing businesses and culture. If a proposed transaction is not consummated, the time and resources spent pursuing it could adversely result in missed opportunities to locate and acquire other businesses. If acquisitions are made, there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions, including, but not limited to, revenue growth, operational efficiencies, or expected synergies, and we could incur unexpected costs in connection with integration. If we dispose of or otherwise exit 21 certain businesses, there can be no assurance that we will not incur certain disposition related charges, we will be able to reduce overhead related to the divested assets, or will realized the intended benefits of the disposition. We may enter new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business either through acquisitions or through initiatives to generate organic revenue growth. These new lines of business, products, and services present the Company with additional risks, particularly in instances where the markets are new or not fully developed. Such risks include the investment of significant time and resources; the possibility that these efforts will be not be successful; the possibility that the marketplace does not accept our products or services or that we are unable to retain clients that adopt our new products or services; and the risk of new or additional liabilities associated with these efforts. In addition, many of the businesses that we acquire and develop will likely have significantly smaller scales of operations prior to the implementation of our growth strategy. If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of these businesses, including improving, refining, or revising our systems and operational practices, and enlarging the scale and scope of the businesses, our business may be adversely affected. Other risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, product or service, integrating the acquired business into our systems and culture, recruiting and retaining experienced professionals, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. External factors, such as compliance with new or revised regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact the successful implementation of a new line of business, products, or services. Failure to manage these risks in the acquisition or development of new businesses could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties in connection with the sale of the Divested Business. On May 1, 2017, the Company completed the sale of the benefits administration and business process outsourcing business (the “Divested Business) to an entity controlled by affiliates of The Blackstone Group L.P. (the “Buyer”). This transaction carries inherent risks, including the risk that we will not earn the $500 million of additional consideration or otherwise realize the intended value of the transaction. Risks Related to Technology, Cybersecurity, and Data Protection We rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption due to a breach in the security of our information technology systems could have a negative impact on our reputation, operations, sales, and operating results. We rely on the efficient, uninterrupted, and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within the Company and some of which are outsourced to third parties. All information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, security breaches, and unauthorized access or improper actions by insiders or employees. We are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries through new and increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including methods that take advantage of remote work scenarios due to COVID-19. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures, or detect and respond quickly enough in the event of an incident or attack. We regularly experience social engineering attempts, attacks to our systems and networks and have from time to time experienced cybersecurity incidents, such as computer viruses, unauthorized parties gaining access to our information technology systems, data loss via malicious and non-malicious methods, and similar incidents, which to date have not had a material impact on our business. If we are unable to efficiently and effectively maintain and upgrade our system safeguards, we may incur unexpected costs and certain of our systems may become more vulnerable to unauthorized access. Problems with the information technology systems of vendors, including breakdowns or other disruptions in communication services provided by a vendor, failure of a vendor to handle current or higher volumes, difficulties in the migration of services or data to third parties or the cloud hosted by third parties, cyber-attacks, and security breaches could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to customers and otherwise conduct business. Additionally, we are a global and acquisitive organization and we therefore might not adequately identify weaknesses in certain of our information systems, including those of targets we acquire, which could expose us to unexpected liabilities and fines or make our own systems more vulnerable to attack. These types of incidents affecting us or our third-party vendors could result in intellectual property or other confidential information being lost or stolen, including client or employee personal information or company data. We have implemented various measures to manage our risks related to system and network security and disruptions, but a security breach or a significant or extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems could damage our reputation, cause us to lose clients, adversely impact our operations, sales, and operating results, and require us to incur significant expense and divert resources to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. Additionally, in order to maintain the level of security, service, and reliability that our clients require, we may be required to make significant additional investments in our information technology system. Improper disclosure of confidential, personal, or proprietary data could result in regulatory scrutiny, legal liability, or harm to our reputation. One of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our employees’ and clients’ confidential and proprietary information, including confidential information about our clients’ and employees’ compensation, medical information, and other personally identifiable information. We maintain policies, procedures, and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. Nonetheless, we cannot eliminate the risk of human error, 22 employee or vendor malfeasance, or cyber-attacks that could result in improper access to or disclosure of confidential, personal, or proprietary information. Such access or disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws and regulations that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs, fines, loss of revenue, and loss of clients. The release of confidential information as a result of a security breach could also lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by affected individuals or business partners, or by regulators, and the outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business. In many jurisdictions, including in the E.U. and the U.S., we are subject to laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of this information. These laws and regulations are frequently changing and are becoming increasingly complex and sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services both in terms of substance and in terms of enforceability. This makes compliance challenging and expensive. Additionally, certain jurisdictions’ regulations include notice provisions that may require us to inform affected clients or employees in the event of a breach of confidential information before we fully understand or appreciate the extent of the breach. These notice provisions present operational challenges and related risk. In particular, in 2020 there have been a number of new privacy laws around the globe including Brazil, California, South Africa and Dubai. We have had to implement new requirements set out in these laws within our business before the effective date causing distraction from other aspects of our business. Additionally the US Privacy Shield was invalidated by the EU causing significant uncertainty for business transferring personal data from the EU to the US. New guidance issued to firms will require time to implement and may require significant effort to review and effect applicable changes to IT systems and transfer methods. Non-compliance with new and existing laws could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others and additional costs in connection therewith. We expect additional jurisdictions to continue to adopt new privacy regulations and there to be amendments to existing regulations as governments continue to legislate in respect of personal data. We have and will continue to incur expenses and devote resources to bring our practices into compliance with these regulations and future regulations. Our failure to comply with or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability, result in proceedings or fines against us by governmental entities or others, or impair our reputation in the marketplace. Further, regulatory initiatives in the area of data protection are more frequently including provisions allowing authorities to impose substantial fines and penalties, and therefore, failure to comply could also have a significant financial impact. Our business performance and growth plans could be negatively affected if we are not able to develop and implement technology-based solutions to support our business operations or if we are not able to effectively drive value for our clients through innovation and technology-based solutions. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to enhance and implement the technology systems necessary to operate our businesses and to achieve intended efficiencies and improvements. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to rapid and continuing changes in technology, industry standards and client preferences. The effort to gain technological expertise, develop new technologies in our business, and achieve internal efficiencies through technology require us to incur significant expenses. We also make investments in technology-based solutions, including data and analytics solutions, for our clients. If we cannot innovate as quickly as our competitors, if our competitors develop more cost-effective technologies, or if our ideas are not accepted in the marketplace, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to obtain and complete client engagements. For example, we have invested significantly in the development of our proprietary data and analytics tools including repositories of global insurance and reinsurance placement information, which we use to drive results for our clients in the insurance and reinsurance placement process. Our competitors are developing competing data and analytics tools, and their success in this space may impact our ability to differentiate our services to our clients through the use of unique technological solutions. Innovations in software, cloud computing, data and analytics or other technologies that alter how our services are delivered could significantly undermine our investment in the business if we are slow to innovate or unable to take advantage of these developments. Risks Related to the Combination The Combination is subject to customary closing conditions, including conditions related to regulatory approvals, and may not be completed on a timely basis, or at all, or may be completed on a basis that has a material impact on the value of the combined company. The closing of the pending combination of the Combination is subject to a number of customary conditions, and there can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the Combination will be satisfied or waived (to the extent applicable). The failure to satisfy the required conditions could delay the closing of the Combination for a significant period of time or prevent the closing of the Combination from occurring at all. These closing conditions include, among others, the approval of the scheme by the Irish High Court and certain antitrust related clearances, including under the Hart–Scott–Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act (the “HSR Act”), the European Commission Merger Regulation and the antitrust laws of the other required antitrust jurisdictions. The governmental agencies from which the parties will seek certain approvals related to these conditions have broad discretion in administering the applicable governing regulations. As a condition to their approval of the Combination, agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business after the closing of the Combination. Such requirements, limitations, costs or restrictions could delay or 23 prevent the closing of the Combination or have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business and results of operations following the closing of the Combination. In addition, the closing conditions include other legal and regulatory conditions, such as (i) the sanction by the Irish High Court of the scheme and the delivery of the court order to the Irish Registrar of Companies, (ii) the approval by the NYSE of the listing of all of our Class A ordinary shares to be issued in connection with the scheme and (iii) the absence of any law or order that restrains, enjoins, makes illegal or otherwise prohibits the closing of the Combination. The Combination is also subject to other customary closing conditions, including: (i) the Business Combination Agreement not having been terminated in accordance with its terms; (ii) the accuracy of each party’s representations and warranties made in the Business Combination Agreement, subject to specified materiality standards; (iii) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to each party since March 9, 2020; and (iv) the performance and compliance by each party of all of its obligations and compliance with all of its covenants under the Business Combination Agreement in all material respects. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the Combination will be satisfied or waived or that the Combination will be completed within the expected time frame, or at all. In addition, if the Combination is not completed by March 9, 2021 (or June 9, 2021 or September 9, 2021, if extended under the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, if applicable, or such earlier date as may be specified by the Irish Takeover Panel), either we or WTW may choose not to proceed with the Combination. The parties can mutually decide to terminate the Business Combination Agreement at any time. Failure to close the Combination could negatively impact our share price and future business and financial results. If the Combination is not completed for any reason, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the potential benefits of having closed the Combination, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • we will be required to pay certain costs and expenses relating to the Combination; • if the Business Combination Agreement is terminated under specified circumstances, we may be obligated to reimburse certain Combination expenses of WTW or, if terminated under other circumstances related to a failure to obtain the required antitrust clearances, pay to WTW a termination fee equal to $1 billion; • we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on the market price of our securities; • the manner in which clients, vendors, business partners and other third parties perceive us may be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect our ability to compete for new business or to obtain renewals in the marketplace; • matters relating to the Combination (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us; • the Business Combination Agreement restricts us, without WTW’s consent and subject to certain exceptions, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Combination occurs or the Business Combination Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other business changes to our business that may arise prior to the closing of the Combination or the termination of the Business Combination Agreement; and • we could be subject to litigation related to any failure to close the Combination or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Business Combination Agreement. If the Combination does not close, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial results and share price. While the Combination is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties related to our relationships with employees, clients and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business and operations. These uncertainties could also adversely affect the combined company following the Combination. Uncertainty about the effect of the Combination on employees, clients and suppliers may have an adverse effect on us and, consequently, on the combined company. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the closing of the Combination and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause clients, suppliers and others who deal with us to seek to delay or defer business decisions, to change or terminate existing business relationships with us, or for potential clients to choose other partners instead of us or to take other actions as a result of the Combination that could negatively impact the combined company’s and/or our revenues, earnings, cash flows and the market price of our securities. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the Combination because employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite our retention efforts, key employees 24 depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, the combined company’s business could be harmed and its ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Combination could be adversely affected. Further, uncertainty around the timing of the closing may heighten risk of employee attrition If completed, the Combination may not achieve its intended results. We entered into the Business Combination Agreement with the expectation that the Combination would result in various benefits, including, among other things, synergies at the combined company, a comprehensive and more innovative product portfolio, diversified growth profile and broad geographic reach. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Combination is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether our and WTW’s businesses can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve, a delay in achieving, or an increase in the costs to achieve, these anticipated benefits, in whole or in part, could result in increased costs or decreases in expected revenues and could adversely affect the combined company’s future business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Additionally, if any governmental agencies, in connection with the Combination, require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business after the closing of the Combination, such requirements or restrictions could reduce the anticipated benefits of the Combination. We and WTW may be unable to successfully integrate their operations. Failure to successfully integrate our and WTW’s businesses in the expected timeframe may adversely affect the future results of the combined company. Our and WTW’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Combination will depend, to a large extent, on the ability to integrate our and WTW’s business. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, significant management attention and resources will be devoted to integrating our and WTW’s business practices and operations. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full expected benefits. A failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Combination could adversely affect the combined company’s results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships and diversion of management’s attention. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of management attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; unanticipated costs, delays and other hardships to integration efforts, including any such costs, delays or hardships, caused by pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease, including COVID-19 and the resulting travel and operations restrictions; difficulties in the assimilation of employees and culture; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company; challenges in retaining existing clients and obtaining new clients; and challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and attention, which could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the combined company. In addition, even if the operations of our and WTW’s businesses are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the Combination, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected, may not be realized within the anticipated time frame or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our and WTW’s businesses. All of these factors could decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Combination and negatively impact the combined company’s results of operations. We have incurred and will incur substantial Combination fees and costs in connection with the Combination. We have incurred and expect to incur a number of non-recurring substantial Combination-related costs associated with the closing of the Combination, combining the operations of the two organizations and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial, and a portion of them will be incurred regardless of whether the Combination closes. Non-recurring Combination costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, retention, severance, change in control and other integration-related costs, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in connection with the closing and the integration of our and WTW’s businesses. There can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental Combination-related costs over time. Thus, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, the long term or at all, and these costs could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operation prior to the closing and of the combined company following the closing. The global effective tax rate that will apply to the combined group subsequent to the Combination is uncertain and may vary from expectations. There can be no assurance that closing of the Combination pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, will allow the combined group to maintain any particular global effective corporate tax rate. No assurances can be given as to what the 25 combined group’s global effective tax rate will be after the closing of the Combination because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the jurisdictions in which the combined group will derive income and the amounts derived thereof, uncertainty regarding the ability and the time necessary to integrate business operations and entities, and uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions in which it will operate. As a result, the combined group’s actual global effective tax rate may vary from expectations following the Combination and that variance may be material. Litigation filed against WTW and/or Aon could prevent or delay the completion of the transaction or result in the payment of damages following completion of the transaction. WTW, Aon and members of the WTW Board may in the future be parties, among others, to various claims and litigation related to the Business Combination Agreement and the transaction. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict, and could delay or prevent the transaction from being completed in a timely manner, and could result in substantial costs to Aon and WTW, including, but not limited to, costs associated with the indemnification of their respective directors and officers. One of the conditions to the closing of the transaction is that no order (whether temporary or permanent) has been issued, promulgated, made, rendered or entered into by any court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction which restrains, enjoins, makes illegal or otherwise prohibits the consummation of the transaction (excluding certain laws and orders unrelated to the required antitrust clearances and the required regulatory clearances). Consequently, if plaintiffs are successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting WTW and Aon from completing the transaction on the terms contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement, such an injunction may delay the completion of the transaction in the expected timeframe, or may prevent the transaction from being completed altogether. Risks Related to Being an Irish-incorporated Company We are incorporated in Ireland, and Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the U.S. and may afford less protection to holders of our securities. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the U.S. against us in Ireland, based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the U.S. currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Ireland. As an Irish company, we are governed by the Irish Companies Act, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the U.S. In addition, depending on the circumstances, the acquisition, ownership and/or disposition of our ordinary shares may subject shareholders to different or additional tax consequences under Irish law including, but not limited to, Irish stamp duty, dividend withholding tax and capital acquisitions tax. As an Irish public limited company, certain capital structure decisions regarding the Company will require the approval of shareholders, which may limit the Company’s flexibility to manage its capital structure. Irish law generally provides that a board of directors may allot and issue shares (or rights to subscribe for or convert into shares) if authorized to do so by a company’s constitution or by an ordinary resolution of shareholders. Such authorization may be granted in respect of up to the entirety of a company’s authorized but unissued share capital and for a maximum period of five years, at which point it must be renewed by another ordinary resolution. The Company’s constitution authorizes our directors to allot shares up to the maximum of the Company’s authorized but unissued share capital for a period of five years from March 31, 2020. This authorization will need to be renewed by ordinary resolution upon its expiration and at periodic intervals thereafter. Under Irish law, an allotment authority may be given for up to five years at each renewal, but governance considerations may result in renewals for shorter periods or in respect of less than the maximum permitted number of shares being sought or approved. Irish law also generally provides shareholders with statutory pre-emption rights when new shares are issued for cash. However, it is possible for such statutory pre-emption rights to be dis-applied in a company’s constitution or by a special resolution of shareholders. Such dis-application of pre-emption rights may be given in respect of up to the entirety of a 26 company’s authorized but unissued share capital and for a maximum period of five years, at which point it must be renewed by another special resolution. The Company’s constitution dis-applies statutory pre-emption rights up to the maximum of the Company’s authorized but unissued share capital for a period of five years from March 31, 2020. This dis-application will need to be renewed by special resolution upon its expiration and at periodic intervals thereafter. Under Irish law, a dis-application of statutory pre-emption rights may be given for up to five years at each renewal, but governance considerations may result in renewals for shorter periods or in respect of less than the maximum permitted number of unissued shares being sought or approved. Irish law requires us to have available “distributable profits” to pay dividends to shareholder and generally to make share repurchases and redemptions Under Irish law, we may only pay dividends and, generally, make share repurchases and redemptions from distributable profits. Distributable profits may be created through the earnings of the Company or other methods (including certain intra-group reorganizations involving the capitalization of the Company’s un-distributable profits and their subsequent reduction). While it is our intention to maintain a sufficient level of distributable profits in order to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and make share repurchases, there is no assurance that the Company will maintain the necessary level of distributable profits to do so.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF 2020 FINANCIAL RESULTS Aon is a leading global professional services firm providing a broad range of risk, retirement, and health solutions underpinned by proprietary data and analytics. Management continues to lead its set of initiatives designed to strengthen Aon and unite the firm with one portfolio of capability enabled by proprietary data and analytics and one operating model to deliver additional insight, connectivity, and efficiency. Financial Results The following is a summary of our 2020 financial results from continuing operations: • Revenue increased $53 million, or 0%, to $11,066 million in 2020 compared to 2019, reflecting 1% organic revenue growth, offset by a 1% unfavorable impact from divestitures, net of acquisitions. Organic revenue growth for the year was driven by strength in the core portions of the business, partially offset by a decline in the more discretionary portions. • Operating expenses decreased $559 million, or 6%, to $8,285 million in 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to a $451 million decrease in restructuring charges, a $138 million decrease from accelerated amortization related to certain tradenames that were fully amortized in the second quarter, expense discipline in an effort to proactively manage liquidity due to uncertainties surrounding COVID-19 and its impact on the Company, including lower travel and entertainment expense, and a $42 million favorable impact from translating prior year period results at current period foreign exchange rates (“foreign currency translation”), partially offset by $123 million of transaction costs related to the pending combination with WTW and a $37 million increase in expenses related to acquisitions, net of divestitures. • Operating margin increased to 25.1% in 2020 from 19.7% in 2019. The increase in operating margin from the prior year is primarily driven by organic revenue growth of 1% and a decrease in operating expenses as listed above. • Due to the factors set forth above, net income from continuing operations was $2,017 million in 2020, an increase of $443 million, or 28%, from 2019. • Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $8.45 per share during the twelve months of 2020 compared to $6.37 per share for the prior year period. • Cash flows provided by operating activities was $2,783 million in 2020, an increase of $948 million, or 52%, from $1,835 million in 2019, primarily due to working capital improvements, including improved collections and actions taken to proactively manage liquidity, a $288 million decrease in restructuring cash outlays, and strong operational improvement. Th e prior year period included approximately $130 million of net cash payments related to legacy litigation. We focus on four key non-GAAP metrics that we communicate to shareholders: organic revenue growth (decline), adjusted operating margins, adjusted diluted earnings per share, and free cash flows. These non-GAAP metrics should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto (the “Consolidated Financial Statements”). The following is our measure of performance against these four metrics from continuing operations for 2020: • Organic revenue growth (decline), a non-GAAP measure defined under the caption “Review of Consolidated Results — Organic Revenue Growth (Decline),” was 1% in 2020, compared to 6% organic growth in the prior year. Organic revenue growth was driven by strength in the core portions of our business, partially offset by a decline in the more discretionary portions. • Adjusted operating margin, a non-GAAP measure defined under the caption “Review of Consolidated Results — Adjusted Operating Margin,” was 28.5% in 2020, compared to 27.5% in the prior year. The increase in adjusted operating margin primarily reflects expense discipline, including lower travel and entertainment expense, increased operating leverage across the portfolio, and 1% organic revenue growth, partially offset by a $47 million decrease in fiduciary investment income and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation of $12 million. 30 • Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, a non-GAAP measure defined under the caption “Review of Consolidated Results — Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share,” was $9.81 per share in 2020, an increase of $0.64 per share, or 7%, from $9.17 per share in 2019. The increase in adjusted diluted earnings per share primarily reflects strong operational performance and effective capital management, highlighted by $1.8 billion of share repurchase during 2020, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. • Free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure defined under the caption “Review of Consolidated Results — Free Cash Flow,” was $2,642 million in 2020, an increase of $1,032 million, or 64%, from $1,610 million in 2019, driven by an increase of $948 million in cash flows from operations and a $84 million decrease in capital expenditures. The prior year included $75 million of capital expenditures related to the restructuring program. IRELAND REORGANIZATION For a description of the Ireland Reorganization, see Part I, Item 1. “Business - Ireland Reorganization” in this report. BUSINESS COMBINATION AGREEMENT On March 9, 2020, Aon and WTW, entered into a Business Combination Agreement with respect to a combination of the parties. At the effective date of the Combination, WTW shareholders will be entitled to receive 1.08 newly issued Class A ordinary shares of Aon in exchange for each ordinary share of WTW held by such holders. The Combination is subject to Irish Takeover Rules. The Business Combination Agreement contains certain operating covenants relating to the conduct of business of both parties in the interim period until the transaction is completed. These covenants require both parties to operate their respective businesses in all material respects in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice. In addition, these covenants restrict each party from engaging in certain actions unless a party obtains the prior written consent of the other party. These actions relate to, among other things, authorizing or paying dividends above a specified rate; issuing or authorizing for issuance additional securities; salary, benefits or other compensation and employment-related matters; capital management, debt and liquidity matters; engaging in mergers, acquisitions and dispositions; entering into or materially modifying material agreements; entering into material litigation-related settlements; and making other corporate, tax and accounting changes. The parties’ respective shareholders approved the Combination on August 26, 2020. On October 30, 2020, Aon and WTW amended the Business Combination Agreement to provide that, at the effective date of the transaction, there will be 12 members of Aon’s Board of Directors, including one director mutually agreed by the parties. The parties continue to work with regulators, including the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (which, as previously disclosed, has delivered a “Second Request” pursuant to the HSR Act) and the European Commission (which, as previously disclosed, has initiated a Phase II review of the Combination) to obtain the required approvals to close the Combination. Aon expects to close the Combination in the first half of 2021, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS The outbreak of the coronavirus, COVID-19, was declared by the World Health Organization to be a pandemic and has continued to spread across the globe, impacting almost all countries, in varying degrees, creating significant public health concerns, and significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption in every region in which we operate. While countries are in various stages of business and travel restrictions to address the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as related re-openings, these policies have impacted and will continue to impact worldwide economic activity and may continue to adversely affect our business. We continue to closely monitor the situation and our business, liquidity, and capital planning initiatives. We continue to be fully operational and continue to reoccupy certain offices in phases, where deemed appropriate and in compliance with governmental restrictions considering the impact on health and safety of our colleagues, their families, and our clients. For other areas where restrictions remain in place or where we have started to see a resurgence of COVID-19, we are closely monitoring the situation and continuously reevaluating our plan to return to the workplace. We continue to deploy business continuity protocols to facilitate remote working capabilities to ensure the health and safety of our colleagues and to comply with public health and travel guidelines and restrictions. As the situation continues to evolve, and the scale and duration of disruption cannot be predicted, it is not possible to quantify or estimate the full impact that COVID-19 will have on our business. We are focused on navigating these challenges and potential future impacts to our business presented by COVID-19 through preserving our liquidity and managing our cash flow by taking proactive steps to enhance our ability to meet our short-term liquidity needs and support a commitment to no layoffs of our colleagues due to COVID-19. Such actions include, but are not limited to, issuing $1 billion of our new 10-year senior unsecured notes on May 12, 2020 and using the proceeds to repay short-term debt and for other corporate purposes, and reducing our discretionary spending, including limiting discretionary spending on mergers and acquisitions. We also temporarily suspended our share buyback program and temporarily reduced compensation for named executive officers, 31 directors, and colleagues during the second quarter, as a precautionary measure, focusing on implementing cash and expense discipline measures. After carefully monitoring the situation, we determined it was appropriate, based on macroeconomic conditions and business performance, to resume share buyback during the third quarter. In addition, temporarily reduced salaries for non-executives were restored at the end of the second quarter and withheld salaries, plus 5% of the withheld salary amounts, were repaid in the third quarter. Temporarily reduced salaries for named executive officers and cash compensation reductions for non-executive directors were fully reinstated and the withheld amounts were paid in full during the fourth quarter. While the ultimate public health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is highly uncertain, we expect that our business operations and results of operations, including our net revenues, earnings, and cash flows, will be adversely impacted, depending on the duration and severity of the downturn, as well as governmental or other regulatory policies and actions that may impact our business or operations. Our revenues can be generalized into two categories: core and more discretionary arrangements. Core revenues tend to be highly-recurring and non-discretionary, where the services are typically regulated, required, or necessary costs of managing the risk of doing business. As expected, in the fourth quarter of 2020 our core revenues did not experience a significant decrease due to the impacts of COVID-19; however, if the economic downturn becomes more severe, we expect that certain services within our core business may be negatively impacted as well. More discretionary revenues tend to include project-related services, where as expected, in the fourth quarter of 2020 we saw an impact from decreases in revenue due to the impacts of COVID-19. The impacts of the pandemic on our business operations and results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2020 are further described in the section entitled “Review of Consolidated Results” and “Liquidity and Financial Condition” contained in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 32 REVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Summary of Results Our consolidated results are as follow: Consolidated Results for 2020 Compared to 2019 Revenue Total revenue increased $53 million, or 0%, to $11,066 million in 2020, compared to $11,013 million in 2019. The increase was driven by 1% organic revenue growth, partially offset by a 1% unfavorable impact from divestitures, net of acquisitions. Organic revenue growth for the year was driven by strength in the core portions of the business, partially offset by a decline in the more discretionary portions. Commercial Risk Solutions revenue increased $17 million, or less than 1%, to $4,690 million in 2020, compared to $4,673 million in 2019. Organic revenue growth was 3% in 2020, driven by growth across most major geographies, including solid growth in the U.S. and Canada and double-digit growth in Latin America, driven by strong retention and management of the renewal book portfolio, partially offset by a decline in the more discretionary portions of our book globally. On average globally, exposures and pricing were both modestly positive, resulting in a modestly positive market impact overall. Reinsurance Solutions revenue increased $128 million, or 8%, to $1,814 million in 2020, compared to $1,686 million in 2019. Organic revenue growth was 10% in 2020 driven by double-digit growth in treaty and in facultative placements, reflecting continued net new business generation. In addition, market impact was modestly positive on results. 33 Retirement Solutions revenue decreased $64 million, or 4%, to $1,753 million in 2020, compared to $1,817 million in 2019. Organic revenue decline was 2% in 2020 driven primarily by a decline in Human Capital for rewards and assessment services and a modest decline in the discretionary portions of Retirement and Investments, partially offset by growth in the core portions of Retirement and Investments. Health Solutions revenue decreased $12 million, or 1%, to $1,655 million in 2020, compared to $1,667 million in 2019. Organic revenue decline was 1% in 2020 driven by a decrease primarily related to COVID-19, including a reduction primarily reflecting the annualized impact of lower employment levels and lower renewals, and a decline in the more discretionary portions of the business. Results were further negatively impacted by a one-time adjustment of $16 million related to revenue that was recorded across multiple years and was identified in connection with the implementation of a new system, partially offset by growth internationally. Data & Analytic Services revenue decreased $13 million, or 1%, to $1,171 million in 2020, compared to $1,184 million in 2019. Organic revenue decline was 5% in 2020 driven by a decrease in the travel and events practice globally. Compensation and Benefits Compensation and benefits decreased $149 million, or 2%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by a $205 million decrease in restructuring charges and a $26 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by a $17 million increase in expenses related to acquisitions, net of divestitures, and an increase in expense associated with 1% organic revenue growth. Information Technology Information technology, which represents costs associated with supporting and maintaining our infrastructure, decreased $50 million, or 10%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by a $39 million decrease in restructuring charges and expense discipline. Premises Premises, which represents the cost of occupying offices in various locations throughout the world, decreased $48 million, or 14%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by a $33 million decrease in restructuring charges and a decrease related to reduced office occupancy. Depreciation of Fixed Assets Depreciation of fixed assets primarily relates to software, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures and equipment, computer equipment, buildings, and automobiles. Depreciation of fixed assets decreased $5 million, or 3%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by a $14 million decrease in restructuring charges. Amortization and Impairment of Intangible Assets Amortization and impairment of intangibles primarily relates to finite-lived tradenames and customer-related, contract-based, and technology assets. Amortization and impairment of intangibles decreased $146 million, or 37%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by a $138 million decrease from accelerated amortization related to certain tradenames that were fully amortized in the second quarter. Other General Expenses Other general expenses decreased $161 million, or 12%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by a $160 million decrease in restructuring charges and a temporary reduction of certain expenses, primarily travel and entertainment, partially offset by $123 million of transaction costs related to the pending combination with WTW and a $13 million increase in expenses related to acquisitions, net of divestitures. Interest Income Interest income represents income earned on operating cash balances and other income-producing investments. It does not include interest earned on funds held on behalf of clients. Interest income was $6 million in 2020, a decrease of $2 million, or 25%, from 2019, reflecting the currency composition of operating cash. Interest Expense Interest expense, which represents the cost of our debt obligations, was $334 million in 2020, an increase of $27 million, or 9%, from 2019. The increase was driven primarily by higher outstanding debt balances. 34 Other Income (Expense) Total other income was $12 million in 2020, compared to other income of $1 million in 2019. Other income in 2020 primarily includes a $25 million gain on the sale of certain businesses, $13 million of pension and other postretirement income, and $4 million of equity earnings, partially offset by $12 million of losses due to the unfavorable impact of exchange rates on the remeasurement of assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies, $11 million of losses on financial instruments used to economically hedge gains and losses from changes in foreign exchange rates, and $7 million of expense related to the prepayment of $600 million Senior Notes due September 2020. Other income in 2019 primarily includes a $13 million gain on the sale of  certain businesses, $9 million of gains due to the favorable impact of exchange rates on the remeasurement of assets and liabilities in non-functional currencies, $9 million of pension and other postretirement income, and $4 million of equity earnings, partially offset by $34 million of losses on financial instruments used to economically hedge gains and losses from changes in foreign exchange rates. Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes Due to factors discussed above, income from continuing operations before income taxes was $2,465 million in 2020, a 32% increase from $1,871 million in 2019. Income Taxes from Continuing Operations The effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations was 18.2% in 2020 and 15.9% in 2019. The primary driver of the 2020 tax rate is the geographical distribution of income, as well as net favorable discrete items including the impact of share-based payments. The 2019 tax rate was primarily driven by the geographical distribution of income including restructuring charges, as well as net favorable discrete items including the impact of share-based payments. Net Income from Discontinued Operations Net income from discontinued operations was $1 million in the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, compared to a net loss from discontinued operations of $1 million in 2019. Net Income Attributable to Aon Shareholders Net income attributable to Aon shareholders increased to $1,969 million, or $8.45 per diluted share, in 2020, compared to $1,532 million, or $6.37 per diluted share, in 2019. Consolidated Results for 2019 Compared to 2018 We have elected not to include a discussion of our consolidated results for 2019 compared to 2018 in this report in reliance upon Instruction 1 to Item 303(a) of Regulation S-K. This discussion can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which was filed with the SEC on February 14, 2020. Non-GAAP Metrics In our discussion of consolidated results, we sometimes refer to certain non-GAAP supplemental information derived from consolidated financial information specifically related to organic revenue growth (decline), adjusted operating margin, adjusted diluted earnings per share, free cash flow, and the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on operating results. This non-GAAP supplemental information should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements. 35 Organic Revenue Growth (Decline) We use supplemental information related to organic revenue growth (decline) to help us and our investors evaluate business growth from existing operations. Organic revenue growth (decline) is a non-GAAP measure that includes the impact of intercompany activity and excludes the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates, fiduciary investment income, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between revenue lines, and gains or losses on derivatives accounted for as hedges. This supplemental information related to organic revenue growth (decline) represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information about their revenue performance, although they may not make identical adjustments. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the reported Total revenue is as follows (in millions, except percentages): (1) Currency impact is determined by translating prior period's revenue at this period's foreign exchange rates. (2) Fiduciary investment income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $27 million, $74 million, and $53 million, respectively. (3) Organic revenue growth (decline) includes the impact of intercompany activity, changes in foreign exchange rates, fiduciary investment income, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between revenue lines, and gains or losses on derivatives accounted for as hedges. 36 Adjusted Operating Margin We use adjusted operating margin as a non-GAAP measure of core operating performance of the Company. Adjusted operating margin excludes the impact of certain items, as listed below, because management does not believe these expenses reflect our core operating performance. This supplemental information related to adjusted operating margin represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to reported operating margins is as follows (in millions, except percentages): (1) Included in the twelve months ended December 30, 2018 was a $176 million non-cash impairment charge taken on certain assets and liabilities held for sale. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2019 we settled legacy litigation that had been reported in a prior year as an adjustment to GAAP earnings. In connection with the settlement, we recorded a $13 million charge in 2019, which represents the difference between the amount accrued in the prior year and the final settlement amount of the legacy litigation. (3) Certain transaction costs associated with the Combination will be incurred prior to the expected completion of the Combination in the first half of 2021. These costs may include advisory, legal, accounting, valuation, and other professional or consulting fees required to complete the Combination. Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share We use adjusted diluted earnings per share as a non-GAAP measure of our core operating performance. Adjusted diluted earnings per share excludes the items identified above, along with pension settlements and related income taxes, because management does not believe these expenses are representative of our core earnings. This supplemental information related to adjusted diluted earnings per share represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, our Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to reported diluted earnings per share is as follows (in millions, except per share data and percentages): 38 (1) Adjusted Other income (expense) excludes pension settlement charges of $37 million for the year ended 2018. (2) Adjusted items are generally taxed at the estimated annual effective tax rate, except for the applicable tax impact associated with estimated Restructuring Plan expenses, legacy litigation, transaction costs, accelerated tradename amortization, impairment charges and non-cash pension settlement charges, which are adjusted at the related jurisdictional rates. In addition, tax expense excludes the tax impacts of the sale of the disposal group and enactment date impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. (3) Adjusted Net income (loss) from discontinued operations excludes the gain on sale of discontinued operations of $82 million for the year ended 2018. The effective tax rate was further adjusted for the applicable tax impact associated with the gain on sale and intangible asset amortization, as applicable. Free Cash Flow We use free cash flow, defined as cash flow provided by operations minus capital expenditures, as a non-GAAP measure of our core operating performance and cash generating capabilities of our business operations. This supplemental information related to free cash flow represents a measure not in accordance with U.S. GAAP and should be viewed in addition to, not instead of, the Consolidated Financial Statements. The use of this non-GAAP measure does not imply or represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. A reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to cash flow provided by operations is as follows (in millions): Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations Because we conduct business in more than 120 countries and sovereignties, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have a significant impact on our business. Foreign currency exchange rate movements may be significant and may distort true period-to-period comparisons of changes in revenue or pretax income. Therefore, to give financial statement users meaningful information about our operations, we have provided an illustration of the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on our financial results. The methodology used to calculate this impact isolates the impact of the change in currencies between 39 periods by translating the prior year’s revenue, expenses, and net income using the current year’s foreign currency exchange rates. Translating prior year results at current year foreign currency exchange rates, currency fluctuations had a $0.03 unfavorable impact on net income per diluted share during the year ended December 31, 2020. Currency fluctuations had a $0.19 unfavorable impact on net income per diluted share during the year ended December 31, 2019, when 2018 results were translated at 2019 rates. Currency fluctuations had a $0.08 favorable impact on net income per diluted share during the year ended December 31, 2018, when 2017 results were translated at 2018 rates. Translating prior year results at current year foreign currency exchange rates, currency fluctuations had a $0.04 unfavorable impact on adjusted net income per diluted share during the year ended December 31, 2020. Currency fluctuations had a $0.23 unfavorable impact on adjusted net income per diluted share during the year ended December 31, 2019, when 2018 results were translated at 2019 rates. Currency fluctuations had a $0.09 favorable impact on adjusted net income per diluted share during the year ended December 31, 2018, when 2017 results were translated at 2018 rates. These translations are performed for comparative purposes only and do not impact the accounting policies or practices for amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity Executive Summary We believe that our balance sheet and strong cash flow provide us with adequate liquidity. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows provided by operations, available cash reserves, and debt capacity available under our credit facilities. Our primary uses of liquidity are operating expenses and investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, pension obligations, shareholder dividends, and restructuring activities . We believe that cash flows from operations, available credit facilities, and the capital markets will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs, including principal and interest payments on debt obligations, capital expenditures, pension contributions, and anticipated working capital requirements over the long-term. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken various proactive steps and continue to evaluate opportunities that will increase our liquidity and strengthen our financial position. Such actions include, but are not limited to, issuing $1 billion of 10-year senior unsecured notes on May 12, 2020 and using the proceeds to repay short-term debt and for other corporate purposes, and reducing our discretionary spending, including limiting discretionary spending on mergers and acquisitions. We also temporarily suspended our share buyback program and temporarily reduced compensation for named executive officers, directors, and colleagues during the second quarter, as a precautionary measure to protect our liquidity, focusing on implementing cash and expense discipline measures. After carefully monitoring the situation, we determined it was appropriate, based on macroeconomic conditions and business performance, to resume share buyback during the third quarter. In addition, temporarily reduced salaries for non-executives were restored at the end of the second quarter and withheld salaries, plus 5% of the withheld salary amounts, were repaid in the third quarter. Temporarily reduced salaries for named executive officers and cash compensation reductions for non-executive directors were fully reinstated and the withheld amounts were paid in full during the fourth quarter. We expect to have the ability to meet our cash needs for the next 12 months and beyond through the use of Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments, funds available under our credit facilities and commercial paper programs, and cash flows from operations. Short-term investments included in our liquidity portfolio are expected to be highly liquid, giving us the ability to readily convert them to cash, as deemed appropriate. In the second quarter, we issued $1 billion in 2.80% Senior Notes due May 2030, from which a portion of the proceeds were used to repay our $600 million 5.00% senior notes in June 2020, which were scheduled to mature in September 2020. Additionally, in the third quarter, Aon Global Holdings plc established the European Commercial Paper Program for €625 million, subsequently the previous European Commercial Paper Program, established by Aon Global Limited for €525 million, was withdrawn in the quarter, increasing the aggregate outstanding borrowings under the European program by €100 million. In February of 2021 we repaid the $400 million 2.80% Senior Notes that were due to mature in March 2021, which further reduced our debt obligations. We believe our liquidity position at December 31, 2020 remains strong as evidenced by strong cash flows in the quarter and significant cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances. Given the significant uncertainties of economic conditions due to COVID-19, we will continue to closely monitor and actively manage our liquidity as economic conditions change. Cash on our balance sheet includes funds available for general corporate purposes, as well as amounts restricted as to their use. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown together with uncollected insurance 40 premiums and claims in Fiduciary assets in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position, with a corresponding amount in Fiduciary liabilities. In our capacity as an insurance broker or agent, we collect premiums from insureds and, after deducting our commission, remit the premiums to the respective insurance underwriters. We also collect claims or refunds from underwriters on behalf of insureds, which are then returned to the insureds. Unremitted insurance premiums and claims are held by us in a fiduciary capacity. The levels of fiduciary assets and liabilities can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect the premiums, claims, and refunds, make payments to underwriters and insureds, and collect funds from clients and make payments on their behalf, and upon the impact of foreign currency movements. Fiduciary assets, because of their nature, are generally invested in very liquid securities with highly rated, credit-worthy financial institutions. Our Fiduciary assets included cash and short-term investments of $5.7 billion and $5.2 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and fiduciary receivables of $8.1 billion and $6.7 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. While we earn investment income on the fiduciary assets held in cash and investments, the cash and investments cannot be used for general corporate purposes. We maintain multi-currency cash pools with third-party banks in which various Aon entities participate. Individual Aon entities are permitted to overdraw on their individual accounts provided the overall global balance does not fall below zero. At December 31, 2020, non-U.S. cash balances of one or more entities may have been negative; however, the overall balance was positive. The following table summarizes our Cash and cash equivalents, Short-term investments, and Fiduciary assets as of December 31, 2020 (in millions): Cash and cash equivalents increased $94 million in 2020 compared to 2019. A summary of our cash flows provided by and used for continuing operations from operating, investing, and financing activities is as follows (in millions): Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 increased $948 million, or 52%, from the prior year to $2,783 million. This amount represents net income reported, as adjusted for gains or losses on sales of businesses, share-based compensation expense, depreciation expense, amortization and impairments, and other non-cash income and expenses, as well as changes in working capital that relate primarily to the timing of payments of accounts payable and accrued liabilities and the collection of receivables. Pension Contributions Pension contributions were $120 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, as compared to $135 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019. In 2021, we expect to contribute approximately $122 million in cash to our pension plans, including contributions to non-U.S. pension plans, which are subject to changes in foreign exchange rates. Investing Activities Cash flows used for investing activities in continuing operations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 were $679 million, an increase of $450 million compared to prior year. Generally, the primary drivers of cash flows used for 41 investing activities are acquisition of businesses, purchases of short-term investments, capital expenditures, and payments for investments. Generally, the primary drivers of cash flows provided by investing activities are sales of businesses, sales of short-term investments, and proceeds from investments. The gains and losses corresponding to cash flows provided by proceeds from investments and used for payments for investments are primarily recognized in Other income (expense) in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Short-term Investments Short-term investments increased $170 million at December 31, 2020 as compared to December 31, 2019. As disclosed in Note 15 “Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this report, the majority of our investments carried at fair value are money market funds. These money market funds are held throughout the world with various financial institutions. We are not aware of any market liquidity issues that would materially impact the fair value of these investments. Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses During 2020, the Company completed the acquisition of six businesses for consideration of $368 million, net of cash acquired, and the disposition of one businesses for a $30 million cash inflow, net of cash sold. During 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of three businesses for consideration of $39 million, net of cash acquired, and the disposition of eight businesses for a $52 million cash inflow, net of cash sold. Capital Expenditures The Company’s additions to fixed assets, including capitalized software, which amounted to $141 million in 2020 and $225 million in 2019, primarily related to the refurbishing and modernizing of office facilities, software development costs, and computer equipment purchases. Financing Activities Cash flows used for financing activities in continuing operations during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 were $2,088 million, an increase of $595 million compared to prior year. Generally, the primary drivers of cash flows used for financing activities are share repurchases, issuances of debt, net of repayments, dividends paid to shareholders, issuances of shares for employee benefit plans, transactions with noncontrolling interests, and other financing activities, such as collection of or payments for deferred consideration in connection with prior-year business acquisitions and divestitures. Share Repurchase Program We have a share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors. The Repurchase Program was established in April 2012 with $5.0 billion in authorized repurchases, and was increased by $5.0 billion in authorized repurchases in each of November 2014, June 2017, and November 2020 for a total of $20.0 billion in repurchase authorizations. Although the Company temporarily suspended its share Repurchase Program in the first half of the year, the Company resumed share buyback during the third quarter based on macroeconomic conditions and business performance. The following table summarizes the Company’s Share Repurchase activity (in millions, except per share data): At December 31, 2020, the remaining authorized amount for share repurchase under the Repurchase Program was approximately $5.3 billion. Under the Repurchase Program, we have repurchased a total of 137.3 million shares for an aggregate cost of approximately $14.7 billion. 42 Borrowings Total debt at December 31, 2020 was $7.7 billion, an increase of $0.4 billion compared to December 31, 2019. Commercial paper activity during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows (in millions): (1)    The proceeds of the commercial paper issuances were used primarily for short-term working capital needs. On May 29, 2020, Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (“Aon Corporation”), issued an irrevocable notice of redemption to holders of its 5.00% Senior Notes, which were set to mature on September 30, 2020, for the redemption of all $600 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes. The redemption date was on June 30, 2020 and resulted in a loss of $7 million due to extinguishment. On May 12, 2020, Aon Corporation issued $1 billion 2.80% Senior Notes due May 2030. Aon Corporation used a portion of the net proceeds on June 30, 2020 to repay its outstanding 5.00% Senior Notes, which were set to mature on September 30, 2020. The Company intends to use the remainder to repay other borrowings and for general corporate purposes. On March 2020, the Company’s $400 million 2.80% Senior Notes due March 2021 were classified as Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as the date of maturity is in less than one year. On November 15, 2019, Aon Corporation issued $500 million 2.20% Senior Notes due November 2022. The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to pay down a portion of outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. On May 2, 2019, Aon Corporation issued $750 million 3.75% Senior Notes due May 2029. The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to pay down a portion of outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. Subsequent Events On January 13, 2021, Aon Global Limited, a limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales and a wholly owned subsidiary of Aon plc, issued an irrevocable notice of redemption to holders of its 2.80% Senior Notes, which were set to mature in March 2021, for the redemption of all $400 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of the notes. The redemption date was on February 16, 2021 and resulted in an insignificant loss due to extinguishment. Other Liquidity Matters Distributable Profits The Company is required under Irish law to have available “distributable profits” to make share repurchases or pay dividends to shareholders. Distributable profits are created through the earnings of the Irish parent company and, among other methods, through intercompany dividends or a reduction in share capital approved by the High Court of Ireland. Distributable profits are not linked to a U.S. GAAP reported amount (e.g., retained earnings). Following the Ireland Reorganization, we must reestablish distributable profits of the parent entity and will regularly create distributable profits as required to meet our capital needs. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 (associated with Aon Global Limited), we had distributable profits in excess of $0.2 billion and $32.4 billion, respectively. We believe that we have the ability to create sufficient distributable profits for the foreseeable future. Credit Facilities We expect cash generated by operations for 2020 to be sufficient to service our debt and contractual obligations, finance capital expenditures, continue purchases of shares under the Repurchase Program, and continue to pay dividends to our shareholders. Although cash from operations is expected to be sufficient to service these activities, we have the ability to access the commercial paper markets or borrow under our credit facilities to accommodate any timing differences in cash flows. Additionally, under current market conditions, we believe that we could access capital markets to obtain debt financing for longer-term funding, if needed. 43 As of December 31, 2020, we had two primary committed credit facilities outstanding: our $900 million multi-currency U.S. credit facility expiring in February 2022 and our $750 million multi-currency U.S. credit facility expiring in October 2023. Effective February 27, 2020, the $750 million multi-currency U.S. credit facility was increased by $350 million from the original $400 million. In aggregate, these two facilities provide $1.65 billion in available credit. Each of these facilities includes customary representations, warranties, and covenants, including financial covenants that require us to maintain specified ratios of adjusted consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense and consolidated debt to adjusted consolidated EBITDA, in each case, tested quarterly. At December 31, 2020, we did not have borrowings under either facility, and we were in compliance with the financial covenants and all other covenants contained therein during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. Shelf Registration Statement On May 12, 2020, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC, registering the offer and sale from time to time of an indeterminate amount of, among other securities, debt securities, preference shares, Class A Ordinary Shares and convertible securities. Our ability to access the market as a source of liquidity is dependent on investor demand, market conditions, and other factors. Rating Agency Ratings The major rating agencies’ ratings of our debt at February 19, 2021 appear in the table below. On March 11, 2020, Fitch Inc. (“Fitch”) placed our ‘BBB+’ rating on Rating Watch Negative (versus a prior Stable Outlook) following the announcement of the Combination. Negative Watch indicates that our Fitch rating could stay at its present level or potentially be downgraded. In its rating action commentary, Fitch states “rating expectations will unfold after further transaction details emerge and after Fitch evaluates both companies ongoing financial results prior to the projected first half 2021 closing”. We are committed to managing our current investment grade ratings. Any downgrade in the credit ratings of our senior debt or commercial paper could increase our borrowing costs, reduce or eliminate our access to capital, reduce our financial flexibility, restrict our access to the commercial paper market altogether, or impact future pension contribution requirements. Guarantees in Connection with the Sale of the Divested Business In connection with the sale of the Divested Business, we guaranteed future operating lease commitments related to certain facilities assumed by the Buyer. We are obligated to perform under the guarantees if the Divested Business defaults on the leases at any time during the remainder of the lease agreements, which expire on various dates through 2025. As of December 31, 2020, the undiscounted maximum potential future payments under the lease guarantee were $55 million, with an estimated fair value of $8 million. No cash payments were made in connection to the lease commitments during the year ended December 31, 2020. Additionally, we are subject to performance guarantee requirements under certain client arrangements that were assumed by the Buyer. Should the Divested Business fail to perform as required by the terms of the arrangements, we would be required to fulfill the remaining contract terms, which expire on various dates through 2023. As of December 31, 2020, the undiscounted maximum potential future payments under the performance guarantees were $104 million, with an estimated fair value of $1 million. No cash payments were made in connection to the performance guarantees during the year ended December 31, 2020. Letters of Credit and Other Guarantees We have entered into a number of arrangements whereby our performance on certain obligations is guaranteed by a third party through the issuance of a letter of credit (“LOC”). We had total LOCs outstanding of approximately $79 million at December 31, 2020, compared to $73 million at December 31, 2019. These LOCs cover the beneficiaries related to certain of our U.S. and Canadian non-qualified pension plan schemes and secure deductible retentions for our own workers’ compensation program. We also have obtained LOCs to cover contingent payments for taxes and other business obligations to third parties, and other guarantees for miscellaneous purposes at our international subsidiaries. 44 We have certain contractual contingent guarantees for premium payments owed by clients to certain insurance companies. The maximum exposure with respect to such contractual contingent guarantees was approximately $113 million at December 31, 2020, compared to $110 million at December 31, 2019. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Apart from commitments, guarantees, and contingencies, as disclosed herein and Note 16 “Claims, Lawsuits, and Other Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Our cash flows from operations, borrowing availability, and overall liquidity are subject to risks and uncertainties. See “Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this report. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2020 are comprised of principal payments on debt, interest payments on debt, operating leases, pension and other postretirement benefit plans, and purchase obligations. Operating leases are primarily comprised of leased office space throughout the world. As leases expire, we do not anticipate difficulty in negotiating renewals or finding other satisfactory space if the premise becomes unavailable. In certain circumstances, we may have unused space and may seek to sublet such space to third parties, depending upon the demands for office space in the locations involved. Refer to Note 9 “Lease Commitments” for further information. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan obligations include estimates of our minimum funding requirements pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and other regulations, as well as minimum funding requirements agreed with the trustees of our U.K. pension plans. Additional amounts may be agreed to with, or required by, the U.K. pension plan trustees. Nonqualified pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are based on estimated future benefit payments. We may make additional discretionary contributions. Refer to Note 12 “Employee Benefits” for further information. Purchase obligations are defined as agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding on us, and that specifies all significant terms, including the goods to be purchased or services to be rendered, the price at which the goods or services are to be rendered, and the timing of the transactions. Most of our purchase obligations are related to purchases of information technology services or other service contracts. We had no other cash requirements from known contractual obligations and commitments that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. Guarantee of Registered Securities In connection with the 2012 Redomestication, the Company on April 2, 2012 entered into various agreements pursuant to which it agreed to guarantee the obligations of its subsidiaries arising under issued and outstanding debt securities. Those agreements included the: (1) Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 2, 2012, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited, and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the “Trustee”) (amending and restating the Indenture, dated September 10, 2010, between Aon Corporation and the Trustee); (2) Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 2, 2012, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited and the Trustee (amending and restating the Indenture, dated December 16, 2002, between Aon Corporation and the Trustee); and (3) Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 2, 2012, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited and the Trustee (amending and restating the Indenture, dated January 13, 1997, between Aon Corporation and the Trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated January 13, 1997). In connection with the Ireland Reorganization, on April 1, 2020 Aon plc and Aon Global Holdings plc, a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, entered into various agreements pursuant to which they agreed to guarantee the obligations of Aon Corporation arising under issued and outstanding debt securities, which were previously guaranteed solely by Aon Global Limited and the obligations of Aon Global Limited arising under issued and outstanding debt securities, which were previously guaranteed solely by Aon Corporation. Those agreements include: (1) Second Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 1, 2020, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited, Aon plc, and Aon Global Holdings plc and the Trustee (amending and restating the Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 2, 2012, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited and the Trustee); (2) Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 1, 2020, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited, Aon plc, Aon Global Holdings plc and the Trustee (amending and restating the Indenture, dated December 12, 2012, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited plc and the Trustee); (3) Second Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 1, 2020, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited, Aon plc, Aon Global Holdings plc and the Trustee (amending and restating the Amended and Restated Indenture, dated May 20, 2015, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited and the Trustee); (4) Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 1, 2020, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited, Aon plc, Aon Global Holdings plc and the Trustee (amending and restating the Indenture, dated November 13, 2015, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited and the Trustee); and (5) Amended and Restated Indenture, dated April 1, 2020, among Aon 45 Corporation, Aon Global Limited, Aon plc, Aon Global Holdings plc and the Trustee (amending and restating the Indenture, dated December 3, 2018, among Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited and the Trustee). After the Ireland Reorganization, newly issued and outstanding debt securities by Aon Corporation are guaranteed by Aon Global Limited, Aon plc, and Aon Global Holdings plc, and include the following (collectively, the “Aon Corporation Notes”): All guarantees of Aon plc, Aon Global Limited, and Aon Global Holdings plc of the Aon Corporation Notes are joint and several as well as full and unconditional. Senior Notes rank pari passu in right of payment with all other present and future unsecured debt which is not expressed to be subordinate or junior in rank to any other unsecured debt of the company. There are no subsidiaries other than those listed above that guarantee the Aon Corporation Notes. After the Ireland Reorganization, newly issued and outstanding debt securities by Aon Global Limited are guaranteed by Aon plc, Aon Global Holdings plc, and Aon Corporation, and include the following (collectively, the “Aon Global Limited Notes”): (1)   The 2.80% Senior Notes due March 2021 were repaid in full on February 16, 2021. Refer to Note 8 “Debt” for more information. All guarantees of Aon plc, Aon Global Holdings plc, and Aon Corporation of the Aon Global Limited Notes are joint and several as well as full and unconditional. Senior Notes rank pari passu in right of payment with all other present and future unsecured debt which is not expressed to be subordinate or junior in rank to any other unsecured debt of the company. There are no subsidiaries other than those listed above that guarantee the Aon Global Limited Notes. Aon Corporation, Aon Global Limited, and Aon Global Holdings plc are indirect wholly owned subsidiaries of Aon plc. Aon plc, Aon Global Limited, Aon Global Holdings plc, and Aon Corporation together comprise the ‘Obligor group’. The following tables set forth summarized financial information for the Obligor group. Adjustments are made to the tables to eliminate intercompany balances and transactions between the Obligor group. Intercompany balances and transactions between the Obligor group and non-guarantor subsidiaries are presented as separate line items within the summarized financial information. These balances are presented on a net presentation basis, rather than a gross basis, as this better reflects the nature of the intercompany positions and presents the funding or funded position that is to be received or owed. No balances or transactions of non-guarantor subsidiaries are presented in the summarized financial information, including investments of the Obligor group in non-guarantor subsidiaries. 46 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To prepare these financial statements, we make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that affect what we report as our assets and liabilities, what we disclose as contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. In accordance with our policies, we regularly evaluate our estimates, assumptions, and judgments, including, but not limited to, those concerning revenue recognition, pensions, goodwill and other intangible assets, contingencies, share-based payments, and income taxes, and base our estimates, assumptions, and judgments on our historical experience and on factors we believe reasonable under the circumstances. The results involve judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities not readily apparent from other sources. If our assumptions or conditions change, the actual results we report may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect the more significant estimates, assumptions, and judgments we use to prepare these Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue when control of the promised services is transferred to the customer in the amount that best reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services. For arrangements where control is transferred over time, an input or output method is applied that represents a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation. For arrangements that include variable consideration, the Company assesses whether any amounts should be constrained. For arrangements that include multiple performance obligations, the Company allocates consideration based on their relative fair values. 47 Costs incurred by the Company in obtaining a contract are capitalized and amortized on a systematic basis that is consistent with the transfer of control of the services to which the asset relates, considering anticipated renewals when applicable. Certain contract related costs, including pre-placement brokerage costs, are capitalized as a cost to fulfill and are amortized on a systematic basis consistent with the transfer of control of the services to which the asset relates, which is generally less than one year. Commercial Risk Solutions includes retail brokerage, cyber solutions, global risk consulting, and captives. Revenue primarily includes insurance commissions and fees for services rendered. Revenue is predominantly recognized at a point in time upon the effective date of the underlying policy (or policies), or for a limited number of arrangements, over the term of the arrangement using output measures to depict the transfer of control of the services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services. For arrangements recognized over time, various output measures, including units transferred and time elapsed, are utilized to provide a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Revenue is recorded net of allowances for estimated policy cancellations, which are determined based on an evaluation of historical and current cancellation data. Commissions and fees for brokerage services may be invoiced near the effective date of the underlying policy or over the term of the arrangement in installments during the policy period. Reinsurance Solutions includes treaty and facultative reinsurance brokerage and capital markets. Revenue primarily includes reinsurance commissions and fees for services rendered. Revenue is predominantly recognized at a point in time upon the effective date of the underlying policy (or policies), or for a limited number of arrangements, over the term of the arrangement using output measures to depict the transfer of control of the services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services. For arrangements recognized over time, various output measures, including units delivered and time elapsed, are utilized to provide a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Commissions and fees for brokerage services may be invoiced at the inception of the reinsurance period for certain reinsurance brokerage, or more commonly, over the term of the arrangement in installments based on deposit or minimum premiums for most treaty reinsurance arrangements. Retirement Solutions includes core retirement, investment consulting, and human capital. Revenue consists primarily of fees paid by customers for consulting services. Revenue recognized for these arrangements is predominantly recognized over the term of the arrangement using input or output measures to depict the transfer of control of the services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services, or for certain arrangements, at a point in time upon completion of the services. For consulting arrangements recognized over time, revenue will be recognized based on a measure of progress that depicts the transfer of control of the services to the customer, utilizing an appropriate input or output measure to provide a reasonable assessment of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation including units delivered or time elapsed. Fees paid by customers for consulting services are typically charged on an hourly, project or fixed-fee basis, and revenue for these arrangements is typically recognized based on time incurred, days elapsed, or reports delivered. Revenue from time-and-materials or cost-plus arrangements are recognized as services are performed using input or output measures to provide a reasonable assessment of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation including hours worked, and revenue for these arrangements is typically recognized based on time and materials incurred. Reimbursements received for out-of-pocket expenses are generally recorded as a component of revenue. Payment terms vary but are typically over the contract term in installments. Health Solutions includes health and benefits brokerage and health care exchanges. Revenue primarily includes insurance commissions and fees for services rendered. For brokerage commissions, revenue is predominantly recognized at the effective date of the underlying policy (or policies), or for a limited number of arrangements, over the term of the arrangement to depict the transfer of control of the services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services using input or output measures, including units delivered or time elapsed, to provide a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the performance obligation. Revenue from health care exchange arrangements are typically recognized upon successful enrollment of participants, net of a reserve for estimated cancellations. Commissions and fees for brokerage services may be invoiced at the effective date of the underlying policy or over the term of the arrangement in installments during the policy period. Payment terms for other services vary but are typically over the contract term in installments. Data & Analytic Services includes Affinity, Aon Inpoint, CoverWallet, and ReView. Revenue consists primarily of fees for services rendered and is generally recognized over the term of the arrangement to depict the transfer of control of the services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services. Payment terms vary but are typically over the contract term in installments. For arrangements recognized over time, revenue will be recognized based on a measure of progress that depicts the transfer of control of the services to the customer, utilizing an appropriate input or output measure to provide a faithful depiction of the progress towards completion of the 48 performance obligation, including units delivered or time elapsed. Input and output measures utilized vary based on the arrangement but typically include reports provided or days elapsed. Pensions We sponsor defined benefit pension plans throughout the world. Our most significant plans are located in the U.S., the U.K., the Netherlands, and Canada, which are closed to new entrants. We have ceased crediting future benefits relating to salary and services for our U.S., U.K., Netherlands, and Canada plans to the extent statutorily permitted. The service cost component of net periodic benefit cost is reported in Compensation and benefits and all other components are reported in Other income (expense). We used a full-yield curve approach in the estimation of the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension and postretirement benefit cost for our major pension and other postretirement benefit plans; this was obtained by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Recognition of gains and losses and prior service Certain changes in the value of the obligation and in the value of plan assets, which may occur due to various factors such as changes in the discount rate and actuarial assumptions, actual demographic experience, and/or plan asset performance are not immediately recognized in net income. Such changes are recognized in Other comprehensive income and are amortized into net income as part of the net periodic benefit cost. Unrecognized gains and losses that have been deferred in Other comprehensive income, as previously described, are amortized into expense as a component of periodic pension expense based on the average life expectancy of the U.S., U.K., Netherlands, and Canada plan members. We amortize any prior service expense or credits that arise as a result of plan changes over a period consistent with the amortization of gains and losses. As of December 31, 2020, our pension plans have deferred losses that have not yet been recognized through income in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We amortize unrecognized actuarial losses outside of a corridor, which is defined as 10% of the greater of market-related value of plan assets or projected benefit obligation. To the extent not offset by future gains, incremental amortization as calculated above will continue to affect future pension expense similarly until fully amortized. The following table discloses our unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, the number of years over which we are amortizing the experience loss, and the estimated 2021 amortization of loss by country (in millions, except amortization period): The U.S. had no unrecognized prior service cost (credit) at December 31, 2020. The unrecognized prior service cost (credit) at December 31, 2020 was $43 million, and $(7) million for the U.K. and other plans, respectively. For the U.S. pension plans, we use a market-related valuation of assets approach to determine the expected return on assets, which is a component of net periodic benefit cost recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income. This approach recognizes 20% of any gains or losses in the current year’s value of market-related assets, with the remaining 80% spread over the next four years. As this approach recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value of assets and therefore, our net periodic benefit cost will be impacted as previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. As of December 31, 2020, the market-related value of assets was $2.1 billion. We do not use the market-related valuation approach to determine the funded status of the U.S. plans recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. Instead, we record and present the funded status in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position based on the fair value of the plan assets. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of plan assets was $2.3 billion. Our non-U.S. plans use fair value to determine expected return on assets. 49 Rate of return on plan assets and asset allocation The following table summarizes the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for future pension expense as of December 31, 2020: In determining the expected rate of return for the plan assets, we analyze investment community forecasts and current market conditions to develop expected returns for each of the asset classes used by the plans. In particular, we surveyed multiple third-party financial institutions and consultants to obtain long-term expected returns on each asset class, considered historical performance data by asset class over long periods, and weighted the expected returns for each asset class by target asset allocations of the plans. The U.S. pension plan asset allocation is based on approved allocations following adopted investment guidelines. The investment policy for U.K. and other non-U.S. pension plans is generally determined by the plans’ trustees. Because there are several pension plans maintained in the U.K. and other non-U.S. categories, our target allocation presents a range of the target allocation of each plan. Target allocations are subject to change. Impact of changing economic assumptions Changes in the discount rate and expected return on assets can have a material impact on pension obligations and pension expense. Holding all other assumptions constant, the following table reflects what a 25 basis point (“bps”) increase and decrease in our discount rate would have on our projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2020 (in millions): (1) Increases to the projected benefit obligation reflect increases to our pension obligations, while decreases in the projected benefit obligation are recoveries toward fully-funded status. A change in the discount rate has an inverse relationship to the projected benefit obligation. Holding all other assumptions constant, the following table reflects what a 25 bps increase and decrease in our discount rate would have on our estimated 2021 pension expense (in millions): Holding all other assumptions constant, the following table reflects what a 25 bps increase and decrease in our long-term rate of return on plan assets would have on our estimated 2021 pension expense (in millions): Estimated future contributions We estimate cash contributions of approximately $122 million to our pension plans in 2021 as compared with cash contributions of $120 million in 2020. 50 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of the net assets acquired. We classify our intangible assets acquired as either tradenames, customer-related and contract-based, or technology and other. Goodwill is not amortized, but rather tested for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter. We test more frequently if there are indicators of impairment or whenever business circumstances suggest that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. These indicators may include a sustained significant decline in our share price and market capitalization, a decline in our expected future cash flows, or a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, among others. We perform impairment reviews at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (referred to as a “component”). A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. An operating segment shall be deemed to be a reporting unit if all of its components are similar, if none of its components are a reporting unit, or if the segment comprises only a single component. When evaluating these assets for impairment, we may first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit is impaired. If we do not perform a qualitative assessment, or if we determine that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, then the goodwill impairment test becomes a quantitative analysis. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be greater than the carrying value of the reporting unit, goodwill is deemed not to be impaired and no further testing is necessary. If the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, a goodwill impairment loss is recognized for the amount that the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value limited to the total amount of the goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. In determining the fair value of our reporting units, we use a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) model based on our most current forecasts. We discount the related cash flow forecasts using the weighted average cost of capital method at the date of evaluation. Preparation of forecasts and selection of the discount rate for use in the DCF model involve significant judgments, and changes in these estimates could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. We also use market multiples which are obtained from quoted prices of comparable companies to corroborate our DCF model results. The combined estimated fair value of our reporting units from our DCF model often results in a premium over our market capitalization, commonly referred to as a control premium. We believe the implied control premium determined by our impairment analysis is reasonable based upon historic data of premiums paid on actual transactions within our industry. We review intangible assets that are being amortized for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. If we are required to record impairment charges in the future, they could materially impact our results of operations . Contingencies We define a contingency as an existing condition that involves a degree of uncertainty as to a possible gain or loss that will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to establish reserves for loss contingencies when the loss is probable and we can reasonably estimate its financial impact. We are required to assess the likelihood of material adverse judgments or outcomes, as well as potential ranges or probability of losses. We determine the amount of reserves required, if any, for contingencies after carefully analyzing each individual item. The required reserves may change due to new developments in each issue. We do not recognize gain contingencies until the contingency is resolved and amounts due are probable of collection. Share-Based Payments Share-based compensation expense is measured based on the grant date fair value and recognized over the requisite service period for awards that we ultimately expect to vest. We estimate forfeitures at the time of grant based on our actual experience to date and revise our estimates, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Restricted Share Units Restricted share units (“RSUs”) are service-based awards for which we recognize the associated compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. We estimate the fair value of the awards based on the market price of the underlying share on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends foregone during the vesting period where applicable. 51 Performance Share Awards Performance share awards (“PSAs”) are performance-based awards for which vesting is dependent on the achievement of certain objectives. Such objectives may be made on a personal, group or company level. We estimate the fair value of the awards based on the market price of the underlying share on the date of grant, reduced by the present value of estimated dividends foregone during the vesting period. Compensation expense is recognized over the performance period. The number of shares issued on the vesting date will vary depending on the actual performance objectives achieved, which are based on a fixed number of potential outcomes. We make assessments of future performance using subjective estimates, such as long-term plans. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions could have a material impact on the compensation expense recognized. The largest plan is the Leadership Performance Plan (“LPP”), which has a three-year performance period. As the percent of expected performance increases or decreases, the potential change in expense can go from 0% to 200% of the targeted total expense. The 2018 to 2020 performance period ended on December 31, 2020, the 2017 to 2019 performance period ended on December 31, 2019, and the 2016 to 2018 performance period ended on December 31, 2018. The LPP currently has two open performance periods: 2019 to 2021 and 2020 to 2022. A 10% upward adjustment in our estimated performance achievement percentage for both open performance periods would have increased our 2020 expense by approximately $7.2 million, while a 10% downward adjustment would have decreased our expense by approximately $7.2 million. Income Taxes We earn income in numerous countries and this income is subject to the laws of taxing jurisdictions within those countries. The carrying values of deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the application of our income tax accounting policies and are based on management’s assumptions and estimates about future operating results and levels of taxable income, and judgments regarding the interpretation of the provisions of current accounting principles. Deferred tax assets are reduced by valuation allowances if, based on the consideration of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Considerations with respect to the realizability of deferred tax assets include the period of expiration of the deferred tax asset, historical earnings and projected future taxable income by jurisdiction as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction to which the tax asset relates. Significant management judgment is required in determining the assumptions and estimates related to the amount and timing of future taxable income. Valuation allowances are evaluated periodically and will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in various factors. We assess carryforwards and tax credits for realization as a reduction of future taxable income by using a “more likely than not” determination. We base the carrying values of liabilities and assets for income taxes currently payable and receivable on management’s interpretation of applicable tax laws and incorporate management’s assumptions and judgments about using tax planning strategies in various taxing jurisdictions. Using different estimates, assumptions, and judgments in accounting for income taxes, especially those that deploy tax planning strategies, may result in materially different carrying values of income tax assets and liabilities and changes in our results of operations. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Principles and Practices” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report contains a summary of our significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or future potential impact on our financial results, if determinable.