********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In the ordinary course of our business, we face various strategic, operating, compliance and financial risks. These risks could have an impact on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The risks set forth below are not an exhaustive list of potential risks but reflect those that we believe to be material. You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the documents incorporated by reference, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the events contemplated by the following risks were to actually occur, then our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Economic and Industry Risks ■ The effects of global and regional economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business A decline in economic activity, such as a recession or economic downturn, in the U.S. and other regions in the world in which we do business, could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending patterns which could result in decreased demand for the products we sell, a delay in purchases, increased price competition, slower adoption of energy-efficient water heaters and boilers, or high-quality water treatment products, which could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Such deterioration in economic conditions could arise from many factors or fears including public health crises, political instability or risk of government default. In addition, an increase in price levels generally or in particular industries (such as the inflation in steel prices in 2021 and the recent inflation in other material and logistics costs), could result in a consumer shift away from the products we offer, which could adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. A deterioration in economic conditions also could negatively impact our vendors and customers, which could result in an increase in bad debt expense, customer and vendor bankruptcies, interruption or delay in supply of materials, or increased material prices, which could negatively impact our ability to distribute, market and sell our products and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ■ The occurrence or threat of extraordinary events, including natural disasters, political disruptions, terrorist attacks, public health issues, and acts of war, could significantly disrupt production, or impact consumer spending As a global company with a large international footprint, we are subject to increased risk of damage or disruption to us and our employees, facilities, suppliers, distributors, or customers. Extraordinary events, including natural disasters, resulting from but not limited to climate change, political disruptions, terrorist attacks, public health issues, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and acts of war may disrupt our business and operations and impact our supply chain and access to necessary raw materials or could adversely affect the economy generally, resulting in a loss of sales and customers. Any of these disruptions or other extraordinary events outside of our control that impact our operations or the operations of our suppliers and key distributors could affect our business negatively, harming operating results. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to cause disruption to the global economy. We continue to monitor the pandemic, and while periodic local increases and decreases in COVID-19 cases are likely, generally the restrictions due to and in response to the pandemic continue to relax in most locations. However, the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to manage it, including those by governmental authorities, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities. For example, two of our manufacturing plants are located within a floodplain that has experienced past flooding events. We also have other manufacturing facilities located in hurricane and earthquake zones. We maintain insurance coverage and have taken steps to mitigate these physical risks related to natural disasters and extreme weather conditions. Pricing for our insurance program has remained at the prevailing market rate with no significant change in the current year’s premium rates from the prior year. Also, to mitigate the risk of flooding, we recently completed an approximately 7,000-foot-long berm, flood gates, and pumping stations around our Ashland City, Tennessee facility, our largest manufacturing facility. Despite our mitigation efforts, there is still the potential for natural disasters and extreme weather conditions to disrupt the productivity of our facilities. Apart from the potential impact on our operations, these types of events also could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending on the severity, globally, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 ■ Our business could be adversely impacted by changes in consumer purchasing behavior, consumer preferences, technological changes, and market trends Consumer preferences for products and the methods in which they purchase products are constantly changing based on, among other factors, cost, performance, convenience, environmental and social concerns and perceptions. Consumer purchasing behavior may shift the product mix in the markets in which we participate or result in a shift to other distribution channels, for example e-commerce. Consumer preferences and broader trends, such as decarbonization and electrification efforts in response to climate change, may result in increased demand for higher efficiency products and/or more electric powered products. In addition, technologies are ever changing. Our ability to respond to these trends, timely transition our product portfolio, develop new and innovative products, and acquire and protect the necessary intellectual property rights is essential to our continued success, but cannot reasonably be assured. It is possible that we will not be able to develop new technologies, products or distribution channels, or do so on a timely basis, to align with consumer purchasing behavior and consumer preferences, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ■ Our operations could be adversely impacted by material and component price volatility, as well as supplier concentration The market prices for certain materials and components we purchase, primarily steel, have been volatile. We have also experienced inflation related increases in our transportation costs. Significant increases in the cost of any of the key materials and components we purchase would increase our cost of doing business and ultimately could lead to lower operating earnings if we are not able to recover these cost increases through price increases to our customers. Historically, there has been a lag in our ability to recover increased material costs from customers, and that lag, could negatively impact our profitability. In some cases, we are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for some of the raw materials and components we require in the manufacturing of our products. A significant disruption or termination of the supply from one of these suppliers could delay sales or increase costs which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ■ Because we participate in markets that are highly competitive, our revenues and earnings could decline as we respond to competition We sell all of our products in highly competitive and evolving markets. We compete in each of our targeted markets based on product design, reliability, quality of products and services, advanced technologies, product performance, maintenance costs and price. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, research and development and distribution resources than we have; others may invest little in technology or product development but compete on price and the rapid replication of features, benefits, and technologies, and some are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing or geographic footprints. In North America, the gas tankless portion of the water heating market has for many years increased as a percentage of the overall market. While we have many gas tankless products, our market share for gas tankless products is lower than our market share for the remainder of the water heating market. Further expansion of the gas tankless portion of the North America market, which we believe was approximately 11 percent of the residential market segment in 2022, could have an impact on our operating results. We cannot assure that our products will continue to compete successfully with those of our competitors. There could be new market participants that change the dynamics of those markets and it is possible that we will not be able to retain our customer base or improve or maintain our profit margins on sales to our customers, all of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ■ Because approximately 22 percent of our sales in 2022 were attributable to China, adverse economic conditions or changes in consumer behavior in China could impact our business Our sales in China decreased five percent in local currency in 2022 compared to 2021. Our 2022 sales in China were impacted by lower consumer demand driven by COVID-19 related disruptions. Certain COVID-19 restrictions were lifted at the end of 2022 but could return. We derive a substantial portion of our sales in China from premium-tier products. Changes in consumer preferences and purchasing behaviors including preferences for e-commerce, weakening consumer confidence and sentiment as well as economic uncertainty, socio-political risks, increased competition from Chinese-based companies, and potential future COVID-19 related impacts, may prompt Chinese consumers to postpone purchases, choose lower-priced products or different alternatives, or lengthen the cycle of replacement purchases. Further deterioration in the Chinese economy may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 Business, Operational, and Strategic Risks ■ We sell our products and operate outside the U.S., and to a lesser extent, rely on imports and exports, which may present additional risks to our business Approximately 34 percent of our sales in 2022 were attributable to products sold outside of the U.S., primarily in China and Canada, and to a lesser extent in Europe and India. We also have operations and business relationships outside the U.S. that comprise a portion of our manufacturing, supply, and distribution. Approximately 5,200 of our 12,000 employees as of December 31, 2022 were located in China. At December 31, 2022, approximately $472 million of cash and marketable securities were held by our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of which were located in China. International operations generally are subject to various risks, including: political, religious, and economic instability; local labor market conditions; new or increased tariffs or other trade restrictions, or changes to trade agreements; the impact of foreign government regulations, actions or policies; the effects of income taxes; governmental expropriation; the changes or imposition of statutory restrictions which prohibit repatriation of cash; the imposition or increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; labor relations problems; the imposition of environmental or employment laws, or other restrictions or actions by foreign governments; and differences in business practices. Unfavorable changes in the political, regulatory, or trade climate, diplomatic relations, or government policies, particularly in relation to countries where we have a presence, including Canada, China, India and Mexico, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows or our ability to repatriate funds to the U.S. ■ A material loss, cancellation, reduction, or delay in purchases by one or more of our largest customers could harm our business Sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 39 percent of our sales in 2022. We expect that our customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future. Our concentration of sales to a relatively small number of customers makes our relationships with each of these customers important to our business. We cannot assure that we will be able to retain our largest customers. Some of our customers may shift their purchases to our competitors in the future. Our customers may experience financial instability, affecting their ability to make or pay for future purchases. Further, a customer may be acquired by a customer of a competitor which could result in our loss of that customer. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any material reduction or delay in sales to these customers, or our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. ■ A portion of our business could be adversely affected by a further decline in North American new residential or commercial construction or a decline in replacement-related volume of water heaters and boilers, including a decline in demand for commercial spaces Residential new construction activity in North America and industry-wide replacement-related volume of water heaters had growth in 2020 and 2021, and then declined in 2022. New residential housing starts in the U.S. are projected to decrease further in 2023 compared to 2022. Commercial construction activity in North America grew in 2022 and 2021 after declining in 2020. We believe that the significant majority of the markets we serve are for the replacement of existing products, and residential water heater replacement volume was strong in 2022 and 2021. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, businesses and commercial spaces have experienced and may experience in the future, fluctuation in demand and in occupancy that may reduce demand for our products, and commercial sectors, such as the restaurant and hospitality industries in which we have customers, may experience long-term shifts in consumer behavior which could negatively impact demand or capacity and may not return to pre-pandemic levels. In addition, the acceptance of remote work arrangements could negatively impact demand for commercial construction. Changes in the replacement volume and in the construction market in North America could negatively affect us. ■ An inability to adequately maintain our information systems and their security, as well as to protect data and other confidential information, could adversely affect our business and reputation In the ordinary course of business, we utilize information systems for day-to-day operations, to collect and store sensitive data and information, including our proprietary and regulated business information and personally identifiable information of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information about our employees. Our information systems are susceptible to outages due to system failures, cybersecurity threats, failures on the part of third-party information system providers, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, fraud, theft, malicious actors or breaches of security. Like many companies, we, and some third parties upon which we rely, have experienced cybersecurity incidents and attacks on information technology networks and systems, products and services in the past but, to date, none have resulted in a material breach or had a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We may experience them in the future, potentially with increasing frequency from increasingly 9 sophisticated cyber threats. In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, remote work and remote access to our systems have increased, which may heighten these risks.  A successful attack in the future could result in operations failure or breach of security that could lead to disruptions of our business activities, the loss or disclosure of both our and our customers’ financial, product and other confidential information and could result in regulatory actions, litigation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and our reputation. We have a response plan in place in the event of a data breach and we have an active program to maintain and improve data security and address these risks and uncertainties by implementing and improving internal controls, security technologies, insurance programs, network and data center resiliency and recovery processes. ■ Our international operations are subject to risks related to foreign currencies We have a significant presence outside of the U.S., primarily in China and Canada and to a lesser extent Europe, Mexico, and India, and therefore, hold assets, including $377 million of cash and marketable securities denominated in Chinese renminbi, incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars in our consolidated financial statements. Furthermore, typically our products are priced in foreign countries in local currencies. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates, hyperinflation in some foreign countries such as Turkey, where we currently have minor operations, or global exchange rate instability or volatility that strengthens the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of our foreign markets, as experienced globally in the second half of 2022, has negatively affected our sales, profitability, and cash and cash equivalents balances and could have such effects in the future. In 2022, the change in foreign currencies negatively impacted our sales and cash and cash equivalents by approximately $61 million and $21 million, respectively. In addition to currency translation risks, we incur a currency transaction risk whenever one of our subsidiaries enters into a purchase or sale transaction using a currency different from the operating subsidiaries’ functional currency. The majority of our foreign currency transaction risk results from sales of our products in Canada, a portion of which we manufacture in the U.S, and to a lesser extent from component purchases in Europe and India and payroll in Mexico. These risks may adversely impact our reported sales and profits in the future or negatively impact revenues and earnings translated from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. ■ Our business may be adversely impacted by product defects Product defects can occur through our own product development, design and manufacturing processes or through our reliance on third parties for component design and manufacturing activities. We may incur various expenses related to product defects, including product warranty costs, product liability and recall or retrofit costs. While we maintain a reserve for product warranty costs based on certain estimates and our knowledge of current events and actions, our actual warranty costs may exceed our reserve, resulting in current period expenses and a need to increase our reserves for warranty charges. In addition, product defects and recalls may diminish the reputation of our brand. Further, our inability to cure a product defect could result in the failure of a product line or the temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market. Any of these events may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ■ Potential acquisitions could use a significant portion of our capital and we may not successfully integrate future acquisitions or operate them profitably or achieve strategic objectives We acquired Giant, a Canada-based manufacturer of residential and commercial water heaters, on October 19, 2021, for $199 million subject to customary adjustments using a combination of cash and debt. We will continue to evaluate potential acquisitions, and we could use a significant portion of our available capital to fund future acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully integrate Giant or any future acquired businesses or operate them profitably or accomplish our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. If we complete any future acquisitions in new geographies, our unfamiliarity with relevant regulations and market conditions may impact our ability to operate them profitably or achieve our strategic objectives for those acquisitions. Our level of indebtedness may increase in the future if we finance acquisitions with debt, which would cause us to incur additional interest expense and could increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our ability to service our debt or obtain additional financing. The impact of future acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 Legal, Regulatory, and Governance Risks ■ Changes in regulations or standards, such as those associated with climate change, could adversely affect our business Our products are subject to a wide variety of statutory, regulatory and industry standards and requirements related to, among other items, energy and water efficiency, environmental emissions, labeling and safety. We believe our products are currently efficient, safe and environment-friendly. However, a limited number of federal, foreign, state and local governments are adopting laws, regulations and codes in response to climate change that require a transition to non-fossil fuel based sources of energy production as well as significantly reducing or eliminating the on-site combustion of fossil fuels in the building sector, such as limiting or prohibiting the delivery of natural gas in new construction. A significant change to regulatory requirements that promote a transition to alternative energy sources as a replacement for gas, or a significant shift in industry standards, could substantially increase manufacturing costs, capital expenditures, transportation costs and raw material costs, impact the size and timing of demand for our products, affect the types of products we are able to offer or put us at a competitive disadvantage, any of which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. ■ We are subject to U.S. and global laws and regulations covering our domestic and international operations that could adversely affect our business and results of operations Due to our global operations, we are subject to many laws governing international relations, including those that prohibit improper payments to government officials and restrict where we can do business, what information or products we can supply to certain countries and what information we can provide to a non-U.S. government, including but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.S. Export Administration Act. Violations of these laws may result in criminal penalties or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ■ Our Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) commitments could result in additional costs, and our inability to achieve them could have an adverse impact on our reputation and performance We periodically communicate our strategies, commitments and targets related to ESG matters, including carbon emissions, diversity and inclusion, and human rights through the issuance of our ESG report. Although we intend to meet these strategies, commitments and targets and are committed to advancing sustainable innovations in our industry, we may be unable to achieve them due to impacts on resources, operational costs, and technological advancements. Failure to meet these sustainability requirements or targets could adversely impact our reputation as well as the demand for our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, standards and processes for measuring and reporting carbon emissions and other sustainability metrics may change over time, result in inconsistent data, or result in significant revisions to our strategies, commitments and targets, or our ability to achieve them. Any scrutiny of our carbon emissions or other sustainability disclosures or our failure to achieve related strategies, commitments and targets could negatively impact our reputation or performance. ■ Our results of operations may be negatively impacted by product liability lawsuits and claims Our products expose us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture, sale and use of our products. While we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable product liability insurance, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms, that this insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities or that our insurance providers will be able to ultimately pay all insured losses. In addition, we self-insure a portion of product liability claims. A series of successful claims against us could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ■ We have significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets and an impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets could cause a decline in our net worth Our total assets include significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase prices we paid over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets we acquired. We assess whether there have been impairments in the value of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each calendar year or sooner if triggering events warrant. If future operating performance at our businesses does not meet expectations, we may be required to reflect non-cash charges to operating results for goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments. The recognition of an impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. A significant reduction in our stockholders’ equity due to an impairment of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may affect our ability to maintain the debt-to-capital ratio required under our existing debt arrangements. 11 We have identified the valuation of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as a critical accounting policy. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets” included in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ■ Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit have the ability to influence all matters requiring stockholder approval We have two classes of common equity: our Common Stock and our Class A Common Stock. The holders of Common Stock currently are entitled, as a class, to elect only one-third of our Board of Directors. The holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled, as a class, to elect the remaining directors. Certain members of the founding family of our company and trusts for their benefit (Smith Family) have entered into a voting trust agreement with respect to shares of our Class A Common Stock and shares of our Common Stock they own. As of December 31, 2022, through the voting trust, these members of the Smith Family own approximately 65.6 percent of the total voting power of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock and Common Stock, taken together as a single class, and approximately 96.8 percent of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock, as a separate class. Due to the differences in the voting rights between shares of our Common Stock (one-tenth of one vote per share) and shares of our Class A Common Stock (one vote per share), the Smith Family voting trust is in a position to control to a large extent the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote, including the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or approval of transactions involving a change of control. This ownership position may increase if other members of the Smith Family enter into the voting trust agreement, and the voting power relating to this ownership position may increase if shares of our Class A Common Stock held by stockholders who are not parties to the voting trust agreement are converted into shares of our Common Stock. The voting trust agreement provides that, in the event one of the parties to the voting trust agreement wants to withdraw from the trust or transfer any of its shares of our Class A Common Stock, such shares of our Class A Common Stock are automatically exchanged for shares of our Common Stock held by the trust to the extent available in the trust. In addition, the trust will have the right to purchase the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Common Stock proposed to be withdrawn or transferred from the trust. As a result, the Smith Family members that are parties to the voting trust agreement have the ability to maintain their collective voting rights in our company even if certain members of the Smith Family decide to transfer their shares.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW Our company is comprised of two reporting segments: North America and Rest of World. Our Rest of World segment is primarily comprised of China, Europe and India. Both segments manufacture and market comprehensive lines of residential and commercial gas, heat pump and electric water heaters, boilers, tanks, and water treatment products. Both segments primarily manufacture and market in their respective region of the world. Our sales in China in 2022 were impacted by lower consumer demand driven by COVID-19-related lockdowns. Certain COVID-19 restrictions were lifted in China at the end of 2022 and we believe that economic activity there will improve in 2023 as a result. While supply chain and logistics challenges lingered in 2022, we saw improvement, particularly in the second half of the year. We remain in close contact with our suppliers and logistics providers to resolve supply chain constraints as they arise. We continue to seek acquisitions that enable geographic growth, expand our core business, and establish adjacencies. Consistent with this strategy, we acquired Giant Factories, Inc. (Giant), a Canada-based manufacturer of residential and commercial water heaters, on October 19, 2021, for $199 million, subject to customary adjustments, using a combination of debt and cash. The acquisition fits squarely in our core capabilities, supplements our presence in Canada and enhances our capacity and distribution in the region. Giant contributed incremental sales of $94.3 million and $22.9 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions” for additional information. We will also continue to look for opportunities to add to our existing operations in high growth regions demonstrated by our previous introductions of water treatment products in India and range hoods and cooktops in China. In our North America segment, after approximately eight percent growth each year in 2021 and 2020, we believe that the wholesale residential water heater industry is returning to a more historical growth rate following a channel inventory destocking that occurred primarily in the third quarter of 2022, which resulted in a decrease in industry demand of 12 percent compared to 2021. We believe the majority of our customers exited 2022 with near normal inventory levels. While we believe that new home construction is in a deficit, we project it will be a headwind in 2023 and therefore, we project 2023 industry residential unit volumes will decrease approximately two to five percent from 2022.  We believe that commercial water heater industry volumes will be flat to slightly up in 2023 compared to 2022 as supply chain constraints continue to ease. We expect to see a 10 to 12 percent increase in our sales of boilers in 2023 compared to 2022 due to industry growth of approximately three to four percent and our expectation that the transition to higher-efficiency boilers will continue.  We anticipate sales of our North America water treatment products will increase approximately five to seven percent in 2023, compared to 2022, primarily driven by pricing and consumer demand. In our Rest of World segment, we see the recent change to certain COVID-19 restrictions in China as a positive step to an improved economic environment. We project our sales in China will grow three to five percent in 2023 in local currency compared to 2022. Our guidance assumes volume will improve sequentially through out the year. We assume that the currency translation impact on sales will be similar to the 2022 and negatively impact sales by approximately four percent. Combining all of these factors, we expect our 2023 consolidated sales to be flat to 2022, with a range of plus or minus three percent. Our guidance excludes the impacts from potential future acquisitions and assumes the COVID-19-related impacts in China improve in the second half of the year and do not have a significant impact on our productivity or significantly impact the end markets that we serve. 18 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for 2022 compared with 2021. We discuss our cash flows and current financial condition under “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” For a discussion related to 2021 compared with 2020, please refer to Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 11, 2022, and is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Our sales in 2022 were $3,753.9 million, or 6.1 percent higher than 2021 sales of $3,538.9 million. Higher sales in 2022 were primarily driven by the impacts of inflation-related pricing actions partially offset by lower residential water heater volumes in North America and lower sales in China. In addition, our sales were negatively impacted by approximately $61 million compared to last year due to the depreciation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Our acquisition of Giant added $94.3 million of incremental sales in 2022. Our gross profit margin in 2022 of 35.4 percent declined compared to 37.0 percent in 2021. The lower gross margin in 2022 was primarily due to higher steel and other material costs and production inefficiencies, which outpaced the impact of our pricing actions. Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $670.9 million in 2022, or $30.5 million lower than in 2021. The decrease in SG&A expenses was primarily due to the recognition of a gain from an $11.5 million judgment against a competitor related to its infringement of one of our patents, lower management incentive expenses, and lower engineering costs in China. Interest expense was $9.4 million in 2022, compared to $4.3 million in 2021. The increase in interest expense in 2022 was primarily due to higher debt levels and interest rates. In 2021, our Board of Directors approved the termination of our defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) with a termination date of December 31, 2021. The Plan represented over 95 percent of our pension plan liability. In the second quarter of 2022, we received a determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that allowed us to proceed with the termination process. In the fourth quarter of 2022, the settled Plan liabilities resulted in $417.3 million of pretax pension settlement expense, of which, $346.8 million was recorded in the North America segment and $70.5 million in Corporate Expense, and included $167.7 million in related tax benefits. For additional information, refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section under “Pensions” below. Other expense (income)-net in 2022 was $425.6 million in expense compared to income of $20.4 million in 2021. In 2022, Other expense (income)-net reflected the $417.3 million pension settlement expense related to the termination of the Plan and $13.9 million in pension expenses compared to $12.0 million of pension income in 2021. To protect the Plan's funded status, the Plan transferred a significant portion of its assets to lower-risk investments in 2021. The impact of this transition resulted in a lower expected rate of return on pension investments and, accordingly, higher pension expenses in 2022 compared to the previous year. The service cost component of our pension income is reflected in cost of products sold and SG&A expenses. All other components of our pension expense (income) are reflected in other expense (income)-net. 19 Our effective income tax rate in 2022 was lower than our effective income tax rate in 2021 primarily due to the tax effects of the pension settlement expense associated with the termination of the Plan, a non-recurring $4.2 million favorable tax impact recorded in the prior year periods related to amending a previously filed tax return and a change in geographic earnings mix. We estimate that our annual effective income tax rate for the full year of 2023 will be approximately 24 percent. We are providing non-U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) measures (adjusted earnings, adjusted EPS, adjusted segment earnings and adjusted corporate expense) that exclude the impact of the pension settlement expense as well as the income from the legal judgment, the expenses associated with a terminated acquisition and non-operating pension income and expenses. Reconciliations from GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures are provided in the Non-GAAP Measures section below. We believe that the measures of adjusted earnings, adjusted EPS, adjusted segment earnings and adjusted corporate expense provide useful information to investors about our performance and allow management and our investors to better understand our performance between periods without regard to items that we do not consider to be a component of our core operating performance or recurring in nature. North America Segment Sales in our North America segment were $2,819.1 million in 2022, or $289.6 million higher than sales of $2,529.5 million in 2021. The increased sales in 2022 compared to the prior year were primarily driven by the price increases implemented in 2021, largely on water heaters, in response to rising material and other input costs and more than offset lower residential water heater volumes and unfavorable currency translation impact of approximately $12 million. In addition, our acquisition of Giant added $94.3 million of incremental sales in 2022. North America segment earnings were $266.0 million in 2022, a decrease of 55 percent compared to segment earnings of $590.8 million in 2021. Segment margins were 9.4 percent and 23.4 percent in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Lower segment earnings and margin in 2022 were primarily due to the Plan settlement expense of $346.8 million, lower residential water heater volumes, higher material costs, and production inefficiencies, partially offset by price increases and the $11.5 million patent infringement judgment referenced above. Adjusted segment earnings and adjusted segment margin in 2022 were $611.0 million and 21.7 percent, respectively. Adjusted segment earnings and adjusted segment margin in 2021 were $580.3 million and 22.9 percent, respectively. We estimate our 2023 North America segment margin will be approximately 23 percent. Adjusted segment earnings and adjusted segment margin in 2022 exclude the pension settlement expense of $346.8 million, pension expense of $9.7 million and the recognition of the $11.5 million patent infringement judgment. Adjusted segment earnings and adjusted segment margin in 2021 exclude pension income of $10.5 million. Rest of World Segment Rest of World sales of $965.8 million decreased seven percent year-over-year, including an unfavorable currency translation impact of approximately $49 million, of which $36 million related to sales in China. In local currency, segment sales decreased by approximately two percent year-over-year. The decrease in sales in 2022 was primarily driven by lower consumer demand in China due to COVID-19-related disruptions and lockdowns. Sales in India increased 28 percent in local currency in 2022 due to strong demand for our water heater and water treatment products. Rest of World segment earnings were $96.3 million in 2022 compared to $91.4 million in 2021. Segment margins were 10.0 percent and 8.8 percent in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Compared to 2021, higher segment earnings and margin were primarily driven by lower engineering, advertising, and selling expenses in China. We expect the full-year segment margin to be approximately 10 percent in 2023. 20 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our working capital was $699.5 million at December 31, 2022 compared with $633.8 million at December 31, 2021. A majority of the increase in working capital was driven by lower accounts payable and payroll-related accruals and higher inventory balances than at December 31, 2021, due to higher levels of safety stock which were partially offset by lower accounts receivable, and cash balances. In addition, cash balances as of December 31, 2022 were negatively impacted by $20.8 million due to the effects of changes in foreign currency during the year. In 2022, we repatriated approximately $120 million of cash from our foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. We used the proceeds to pay down outstanding debt balances. Cash provided by operating activities in 2022 was $391.4 million compared with $641.1 million during 2021. The decrease in operating cash flows in 2022 was primarily due to lower customer deposits in China, higher 2021-related incentive payments made in 2022 and additional working capital cash outlays primarily related to higher cost inventories that more than offset lower accounts receivable balances. Our free cash flow in 2022 and 2021 was $321.1 million and $566.0 million, respectively. We expect free cash flow to be between $550 million to $600 million in 2023. Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and is described in more detail in the Non-GAAP Measures section below. Our capital expenditures were $70.3 million in 2022 and $75.1 million in 2021.  We project our 2023 capital expenditures will be between $70 and $75 million and expect depreciation and amortization will be approximately $70 million. In 2021, we renewed and amended our $500 million revolving credit facility, which now expires on April 1, 2026. The renewed and amended facility, with a group of nine banks, has an accordion provision that allows it to be increased up to $850 million if certain conditions (including lender approval) are satisfied. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined by our leverage ratio. The facility requires us to maintain two financial covenants, a leverage ratio test and an interest coverage test, and we were in compliance with the covenants as of December 31, 2022, and expect to be in compliance for the foreseeable future. The facility backs up commercial paper and credit line borrowings. At December 31, 2022, we had $208 million outstanding under the facility and an available borrowing capacity of $292 million. We believe the combination of available borrowing capacity and operating cash flows will provide sufficient funds to finance our existing operations for the foreseeable future. Our total debt increased by $150.6 million in 2022 and was primarily due to repurchases of our common stock. Our leverage, as measured by the ratio of total debt to total capitalization, was 16.5 percent at December 31, 2022, compared with 9.7 percent at December 31, 2021. Our remaining U.S. pension plan continues to meet all funding requirements under ERISA regulations. We were not required to make a contribution to our pension plan in 2022. We forecast that we will not be required to make a contribution to the plan in 2023, and we do not plan to make any voluntary contributions in 2023. For further information on our pension plans, see the Critical Accounting Policies below and Note 13, “Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits” of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2022, our Board of Directors approved adding 3,500,000 shares of common stock to our existing discretionary share repurchase authority. Under our share repurchase program, we may purchase our common stock through a combination of a Rule 10b5-1 automatic trading plan and discretionary purchases in accordance with applicable securities laws. The stock repurchase authorization remains effective until terminated by our Board of Directors, which may occur at any time, subject to the parameters of any Rule 10b5-1 automatic trading plan that we may then have in effect. During 2022, we repurchased 6,647,895 shares of our stock at a total cost of $403.5 million. As of December 31, 2022, we had 378,462 shares remaining on the share repurchase authority. On January 27, 2023, the Board of Directors approved adding 7,500,000 shares of common stock to the existing discretionary share repurchase authority. Including the additional shares, we have approximately 7.6 million shares available for repurchase as of the date of the Board of Directors' approval. We intend to repurchase approximately $200 million of our common stock in 2023 through a combination of 10b5-1 plans and open-market purchases. 21 We paid dividends of $1.14 per share in 2022 compared with $1.06 per share in 2021. We increased our dividend by seven percent in the fourth quarter of 2022, and the five-year compound annual growth rate of our dividend payment is approximately 15 percent. We have paid dividends for 83 consecutive years with annual amounts increasing each of the last 31 years. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Recent Accounting Pronouncements in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies Our accounting policies are described in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Also as disclosed in Note 1, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires the use of estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. The most significant accounting estimates inherent in the preparation of our financial statements include estimates associated with the evaluation of the impairment of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, as well as significant estimates used in the determination of liabilities related to warranty, product liability and pensions. Various assumptions and other factors underlie the determination of these significant estimates. The process of determining significant estimates is fact-specific and takes into account factors such as historical experience and trends, and in some cases, actuarial techniques. We monitor these significant factors and adjustments are made as facts and circumstances dictate. Historically, actual results have not significantly deviated from those determined using the estimates described above. Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets In conformity with GAAP, goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. We perform impairment reviews for our reporting units using a fair-value method based on management’s judgments and assumptions. The fair value represents the estimated amount at which a reporting unit could be bought or sold in a current transaction between willing parties on an arms-length basis. The estimated fair value is then compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including recorded goodwill. We are subject to financial statement risk to the extent that goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets become impaired. Any impairment review is, by its nature, highly judgmental as estimates of future sales, earnings and cash flows are utilized to determine fair values. However, we believe that we conduct a thorough and competent annual quantitative analysis of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Based on the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined there was no impairment of our goodwill as of December 31, 2022. The fair value of each of our reporting units significantly exceeded its carrying value and a 20% decrease in the estimated fair value of our reporting units would not have resulted in a different conclusion. Based on the annual indefinite-lived assets impairment test, we determined there was no impairment of our indefinite-lived assets as of December 31, 2022. Product Warranty Our products carry warranties that generally range from one to 12 years and are based on terms that are generally accepted in the market. We provide for the estimated cost of product warranty at the time of sale. The product warranty provision is estimated based upon warranty loss experience using actual historical failure rates and estimated costs of product replacement. The variables used in the calculation of the provision are reviewed at least annually. At times, warranty issues may arise which are beyond the scope of our historical experience. We provide for any such warranty issues as they become known and estimable. While our warranty costs have historically been within calculated estimates, it is possible that future warranty costs could differ significantly from those estimates. The allocation of the warranty liability between current and long-term is based on the expected warranty liability to be paid in the next year as determined by historical product failure rates. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, our reserve for product warranties was $182.5 million and $184.4 million, respectively. Pensions We have significant pension benefit costs that are developed from actuarial valuations. The valuations reflect key assumptions regarding, among other things, discount rates, expected return on plan assets, retirement ages, and years of service. Consideration is given to current market conditions, including changes in interest rates in making these assumptions. 22 Our assumption for the expected return on plan assets was 3.12 and 6.25 percent in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The discount rate used to determine net periodic pension costs increased to 2.80 percent in 2022 from 2.47 percent in 2021. For 2023, our expected return on plan assets is 5.25 percent and our discount rate is 5.13 percent. In developing our expected return on plan assets, we evaluate our pension plan’s current and target asset allocation, the expected long-term rates of return of equity and bond indices and the actual historical returns of our pension plan. Our plan’s target allocation to bonds managers is between 60 to 95 percent with the remainder allocated primarily to equities, private equity managers and cash. Our actual asset allocation as of December 31, 2022, was eight percent to equity managers, 27 percent to bond managers, five percent to private equity managers, and the remainder allocated to cash. We regularly review our actual asset allocation and periodically rebalance our investments to our targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Our pension plan’s historical ten-year and 25-year compounded annualized returns are 7.1 percent and 6.9 percent, respectively. We believe that with our target allocation and the expected long-term returns of equity and bond indices as well as our actual historical returns, our 5.25 percent expected return on plan assets for 2023 is reasonable. The discount rate assumptions used to determine future pension obligations at December 31, 2022 and 2021 were based on the Aon AA Only Above Median yield curve, which was designed by Aon to provide a means for plan sponsors to value the liabilities of their postretirement benefit plans. The AA Only Above Median yield curve represents a series of annual discount rates from bonds with AA minimum average rating as rated by Moody’s Investor Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. We will continue to evaluate our actuarial assumptions at least annually, and we will adjust the assumptions as necessary. Lowering the expected return on plan assets by 25 basis points would increase our net pension expense for 2022 by approximately $1.8 million. Lowering the discount rate by 25 basis points would decrease our 2022 net pension expense by approximately $0.8 million. In 2021, our Board of Directors approved the termination of our defined benefit pension plan (the Plan) with a termination date of December 31, 2021. The Plan represented over 95 percent of our pension plan liability. In the second quarter of 2022, we received a determination letter from the IRS that allowed us to proceed with the termination process. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we settled approximately $169 million of Plan liabilities through lump-sum payments from existing plan assets to eligible participants who elected to receive them and settled approximately $463 million of Plan liabilities by entering into an agreement to purchase annuities from Mass Mutual Life Insurance Company (MML). The irrevocable agreement with MML covers approximately 7,000 active and former employees and their beneficiaries, with MML assuming the future annuity payments for these individuals commencing March 1, 2023. These settlements resulted in approximately $417.3 million of pretax expense in 2022, partially offset by approximately $167.7 million in related tax benefits. 23 Non-GAAP Measures We are providing non-U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) measures (adjusted earnings, adjusted EPS, adjusted segment earnings and adjusted corporate expense) that exclude the impact of pension settlement expense as well as legal judgment income, expenses associated with a terminated acquisition and non-operating pension income and expenses. Reconciliations from GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures are provided below. We believe that the measures of adjusted earnings, adjusted EPS, adjusted segment earnings and adjusted corporate expense provide useful information to investors about our performance and allow management and our investors to better understand our performance between periods without regard to items that we do not consider to be a component of our core operating performance or recurring in nature. A. O. SMITH CORPORATION Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share (dollars in millions, except per share data) (unaudited) The following is a reconciliation of net earnings and diluted EPS to adjusted earnings (non-GAAP) and adjusted EPS (non-GAAP): (1) Earnings per share amounts are calculated discretely and, therefore, may not add up to the total due to rounding. 24 A. O. SMITH CORPORATION Adjusted Segment Earnings (dollars in millions) (unaudited) The following is a reconciliation of reported segment earnings to adjusted segment earnings (non-GAAP): A. O. SMITH CORPORATION Adjusted Corporate Expense (dollars in millions) (unaudited) The following is a reconciliation of reported Corporate Expense to adjusted Corporate Expense (non-GAAP): 25 A. O. SMITH CORPORATION Free Cash Flow (dollars in millions) (unaudited) The following is a reconciliation of reported cash flow from operating activities to free cash flow (non-GAAP): A. O. SMITH CORPORATION 2023 EPS Guidance and 2022 Adjusted EPS (unaudited) The following is a reconciliation of diluted EPS to adjusted EPS (non-GAAP) (all items are net of tax): (1) Includes pre-tax pension settlement expense of $346.8 million and $70.5 million, within the North America segment and Corporate expenses, respectively. (2) Includes pre-tax pension expense of $9.7 million and $2.0 million, within the North America segment and Corporate expenses, respectively. Outlook As we begin 2023, we expect our consolidated sales to be flat to 2022 with a range of plus or minus three percent. Our sales projection is driven by expected lower industry residential unit volumes in North America and offset by anticipated increased boiler and water treatment sales in North America and higher sales in China. We expect to achieve full-year earnings of between $3.15 and $3.45 per share. Our guidance excludes the impacts from potential future acquisitions and assumes the COVID-19-related impacts in China improve in the second half of the year and do not have a significant impact on our productivity or significantly impact the end markets that we serve. OTHER MATTERS Environmental Our operations are governed by a number of federal, foreign, state, local and environmental laws concerning the generation and management of hazardous materials, the discharge of pollutants into the environment and remediation of sites owned by the Company or third parties. We have expended financial and managerial resources complying with such laws. Expenditures related to environmental matters were not material in 2022 and we do not expect them to be material in any single year. We have reserves associated with environmental obligations at various facilities and we believe these reserves together with available insurance coverage are sufficient to cover reasonably anticipated remediation costs. Although we believe that our operations are substantially in compliance with such laws and maintain procedures designed to maintain compliance, there are no assurances that substantial additional costs for compliance will not be incurred in the future. However, since the same laws govern our competitors, we should not be placed at a competitive disadvantage. 26 Risk Management We evaluate risk to our business in a number of ways, primarily through our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process, which we conduct enterprise-wise on a periodic basis, and seeks to identify and address significant and material risks. Our ERM process assesses, manages, and monitors risks consistent with the integrated risk framework in the Enterprise Risk Management-Integrated Framework (2017) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). We believe that risk-taking is an inherent aspect of the pursuit of our strategy. Our goal is to manage risks prudently rather than avoid risks. We can mitigate risks and their impact on our company only to a limited extent. A team of senior executives prioritizes identified risks, including decarbonization, new technologies and cyber threats among others, and assigns an executive to address each major identified risk area and lead action plans to manage risks. Our Board of Directors provides oversight of the ERM process and reviews significant identified risks. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors also reviews significant financial risk exposures and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage them. Our other Board committees also play a role in risk management, as set forth in their respective charters. Our goal is to proactively manage risks using a structured approach in conjunction with strategic planning, with the intent to preserve and enhance shareholder value. However, the risks set forth in Item 1A - Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other risks and uncertainties could adversely affect us and cause our results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Market Risk We are exposed to various types of market risks, primarily currency. We monitor our risks in such areas on a continuous basis and generally enter into forward contracts to minimize such exposures. We do not engage in speculation in our derivatives strategies. Further discussion regarding derivative instruments is contained in Note 1, “Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the effect of fluctuating foreign currencies. At December 31, 2022, we had net foreign currency contracts outstanding with notional values of $122.7 million. Assuming a hypothetical ten percent movement in the respective currencies, the potential foreign exchange gain or loss associated with the change in exchange rates would amount to $12.3 million. However, gains and losses from our forward contracts will be offset by gains and losses in the underlying transactions being hedged. Forward-Looking Statements This filing contains statements that the Company believes are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “forecast,” “continue,” “guidance”, “outlook” or words of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements address uncertain matters and include any statements that: are not historical, such as statements about our strategy, financial plans, outlook, objectives, plans, intentions or goals (including those related to our social, environmental and other sustainability goals); or address possible or future results of operations or financial performance, including statements relating to orders, revenues, operating margins and earnings per share growth.  All forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated as of the date of this filing. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these expectations include, among other things, the following: further softening in U.S. residential water heater demand; negative impacts to the Company, particularly the demand for its products, resulting from global inflationary pressures or a potential recession in one or more of the markets in which the Company participates; the Company’s ability to continue to obtain commodities, components, parts and accessories on a timely basis through its supply chain and at expected costs; negative impacts to demand for the Company’s products, particularly commercial products, as a result of the severity and duration of the lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; further weakening in U.S. residential or commercial construction or instability in the Company's replacement markets; inability of the Company to implement or maintain pricing actions; an uneven recovery of the Chinese economy or decline in the growth rate of consumer spending or housing sales in China; negative impact to the Company’s business in China as a result of future COVID-19 related disruptions there; negative impact to the Company's businesses from international tariffs, trade disputes and geopolitical differences, including the conflict in Ukraine; potential weakening in the high-efficiency boiler segment in the U.S.; substantial defaults in payment by, material reduction in purchases by or the loss, bankruptcy or insolvency of a major customer; foreign currency fluctuations; the Company’s inability to successfully integrate or achieve its strategic objectives resulting from acquisitions; competitive pressures on the Company’s businesses; the impact of potential information technology or data security breaches; changes in government regulations or regulatory requirements; the inability to respond to secular trends toward decarbonization and energy efficiency; and adverse developments in general economic, political and business conditions in key regions of the world. Forward-looking statements included in this filing are made only as of the date of this filing, and the Company is 27 under no obligation to update these statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributed to the Company, or persons acting on its behalf, are qualified entirely by these cautionary statements. Forward-looking and other statements in this Form 10-K regarding our environmental and other sustainability plans and goals are not an indication that these statements are necessarily material to investors or are required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC. In addition, historical, current, and forward-looking social, environmental and sustainability-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. All forward-looking statements made herein are based on information currently available to us as of the date of this Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.