********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. The occurrence of any of the following risks or of unknown risks and uncertainties may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Macroeconomic Risks Difficult political, market or economic conditions may adversely affect our businesses in many ways which could materially reduce our revenue, net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial prospects and condition. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the political environment and financial markets and economic conditions throughout the world, such as changes in interest rates, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), governmental policy and regulatory reform, changes in trade policy, tariffs and trade sanctions on goods, trade wars, U.S.-China relations, the withdrawal of the U.K. from the EU single market and customs union, imposition or maintenance of trade barriers, labor shortages, the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict, the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East, supply chain disruptions, economic, political, fiscal and/or other developments in or affecting Eurozone countries, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, wars, other national and international political circumstances (including terrorist acts or security operations), natural disasters, climate change, pandemics or other severe public health crises and other events outside of our control. Both domestic and international markets experienced significant inflationary pressures in fiscal year 2023 and inflation rates in the U.S., as well as in other countries in which we operate, may continue at elevated levels for the near term. In addition, the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and central banks in various other countries have raised, and may again raise interest rates in response to concerns about inflation, which, coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. Interest rate increases or other government actions taken to reduce inflation could also result in recessionary pressures in many parts of the world. Interest rate risk poses a significant market risk to us as a result of interest rate-sensitive assets ( e.g. , fixed income assets) and liabilities ( e.g. , fixed deferred and immediate annuities) held by us and by the portfolio companies of the funds we manage. Certain portfolio companies of the funds we manage may also be impacted by inflation. If such portfolio companies are unable to pass any increases in their costs along to their customers, it could adversely affect their results and their ability to pay interest and principal on their loans, particularly if interest rates rise further in response to inflation. In addition, any projected future decreases in such portfolio companies’ operating results due to inflation could adversely impact the fair value of those investments. Any decreases in the fair value of our and our funds’ investments could result in future unrealized losses and therefore reduce our net assets resulting from operations. The conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East have increased global economic and political uncertainty. Furthermore, governments in the U.S., U.K., and EU have each imposed export controls on certain products and financial and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in Russia, and additional controls and sanctions could be enacted in the future. We are continuing to actively monitor the situations in Russia, Ukraine and Israel and assess their impact on our business and the business and operations of the portfolio companies of the funds we manage (particularly the impact on portfolio companies that operate in industries such as chemicals, oil and gas and aviation). We have no significant exposure to Russia, Ukraine or Israel and as such, to date, these conflicts have not had a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, it is possible that these conflicts may escalate or expand, and the scope, extent and duration of the military action, current or future sanctions and resulting market and geopolitical disruptions could be significant. Any acceleration of a global energy crisis, including as a result of restrictions on Russia's energy exports or the expansion of the Middle East conflicts, could similarly have an adverse impact on certain of the geographies where we do business and certain business and operations of the portfolio companies of the funds we manage. We cannot predict the impact these conflicts may have on the global economy or our business, financial condition and operations in the future. These conflicts may also heighten the impact of other risks described herein. Additionally, investing in securities of issuers organized or based outside the U.S. and operating outside the U.S. may also expose us to increased compliance risks, as well as higher compliance costs to comply with U.S. and non-U.S. anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations. These factors are outside our control and may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and the liquidity and the value of investments, and we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these conditions. 33 Volatility caused by political, market or economic conditions can materially hinder the initiation of new, large-sized transactions for funds in our asset management business and, together with volatility in valuations of equity and debt securities, may adversely impact our operating results. It may also increase the risk that cash flows generated from our operations or the collateral underlying the structured products we own may differ from our expectations in timing or amount. In addition, many of our classes of investments, but in particular our alternative investments, may produce investment income that fluctuates significantly from period to period. Any event reducing the estimated fair value of these securities, other than on a temporary basis, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and cash flows. Volatility and general economic trends are also likely to impact the performance of portfolio companies in many industries, particularly industries that are more affected by changes in consumer demand, such as the packaging, manufacturing, chemical and refining industries, as well as the travel and leisure, gaming and real estate industries. Our performance, and the performance of the funds we manage, may be adversely affected to the extent portfolio companies in these industries experience adverse performance or additional pressure due to downward trends. There is also a risk of both sector-specific and broad-based corrections and/or downturns in the equity and/or credit markets. Our profitability may also be adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs, within a time frame sufficient to match any further decreases in net income or increases in net losses relating to changes in market and economic conditions. Moreover, our retirement services business is materially affected by conditions in the capital markets and the U.S. economy generally, as well as by the global economy. Actual or perceived stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various capital and credit markets can have an adverse effect on our retirement services business, both because such conditions may decrease the returns on, and value of, its investment portfolio and because its benefit and claim liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. In times of economic hardship, the policyholders of our retirement services business may choose to defer paying insurance premiums, stop paying insurance premiums altogether or surrender their policies. In addition, actual or perceived difficult conditions in the capital markets may discourage individuals from making investment decisions and purchasing our retirement services products. Climate change-related risks and regulatory and other efforts to address climate change could adversely affect our business. We and the portfolio companies of the funds we manage face a number of risks associated with climate change, including both transition and physical risks. The transition risks that could impact us and the investments of the funds we manage include those risks related to the impact of U.S. and foreign climate-related legislation and regulation, as well as risks arising from climate-related business trends. Moreover, our investments, and the investments of the portfolio companies of the funds we manage, are subject to risks stemming from the physical impacts of climate change. In particular, climate change may impact asset prices and the value of investments linked to real estate. For example, rising sea levels may lead to decreases in real estate values in coastal areas. We and the funds we manage have significant concentrations of real estate investments and collateral underlying investments linked to real estate in areas of the United States prone to severe weather and climate events, including California, sections of the northeastern U.S., the South Atlantic states and the Gulf Coast. Climate change-related regulations or interpretations of existing laws have resulted, and may continue to result, in enhanced disclosure obligations that could negatively affect us or the investments of the portfolio companies of the funds we manage and also materially increase our regulatory burden. We also face business trend-related climate risks. Certain fund investors are increasingly taking climate-related risks into account when determining whether to invest in the funds we manage. Our reputation and investor relationships could be damaged as a result of our involvement, or the involvement of the funds we manage, in certain industries, portfolio companies or transactions associated with activities perceived to be causing or exacerbating climate change, as well as any decisions we make to continue to conduct or change our activities in response to considerations relating to climate change. We are subject to risks associated with pandemics, epidemics, disease outbreaks and other public health crises, which could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations in the future. We are subject to risks associated with pandemics, epidemics, disease outbreaks and other public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Such public health crises could adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including by adversely impacting the valuations of the investments made by our asset management and retirement services businesses, which are generally correlated to the performance of the relevant equity and debt markets; increasing volatility in the financial markets; preventing us from capitalizing on certain market opportunities; causing prolonged asset price inflation and hampering our asset management business’ ability to deploy capital or to deploy capital as profitably; interrupting global or regional supply chains; hurting consumer confidence and economic activity; reducing opportunities for our asset management business to successfully exit existing investments; straining our liquidity, which may impact our credit ratings and limit the availability 34 of future financing; impairing our asset management business’ equity investments and impacting the ability of the portfolio companies of our asset management business to meet their respective financial obligations and comply with existing covenants; increasing the rate at which policyholders of our insurance products withdraw their policies; and reducing our ability to understand and foresee trends and changes in the markets in which we operate. Operating Risks A portion of our revenues, earnings and cash flow is highly variable, which may make it difficult for us to achieve steady earnings growth on a quarterly basis, which may cause the price of our shares to be volatile. A portion of our revenues, earnings and cash flow is highly variable, primarily due to the fact that performance fees from our asset management business and the transaction, advisory and other fees that we receive, can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. In addition, the investment returns of most of the funds we manage are volatile. We may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter and year to year due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of investments of the funds we manage, changes in the amount of distributions, dividends or interest paid in respect of investments, changes in our operating expenses, policyholder behavior, the degree to which we encounter competition and general economic and market conditions. Our future results will also be significantly dependent on the success of the larger funds we manage ( e.g. , Fund VIII, Fund IX and Fund X), changes in the value of which may result in fluctuations in our results. In addition, performance fees from some of the funds we manage are subject to contingent repayment by the general partner if, upon the final distribution, the relevant fund’s general partner has received cumulative performance fees on individual portfolio investments in excess of the amount of performance fees it would be entitled to from the profits calculated for all portfolio investments in the aggregate. Such variability may lead to volatility in the trading price of our shares and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in a future period. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth in earnings and cash flow on a quarterly basis, which could in turn lead to large adverse movements in the price of our shares or increased volatility in the price of our shares in general. The timing of performance fees generated by the funds we manage is uncertain and will contribute to the volatility of our results. Performance fees depend on the performance of the funds we manage. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities, to raise all the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value or other proceeds of an investment through a sale, public offering, recapitalization or other exit. Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years before any profits can be realized in cash or other proceeds. We cannot predict when, or if, any realization of investments will occur. Generally, if the funds we manage were to have a realization event in a particular quarter or year, it may have a significant impact on our results for that particular quarter or year that may not be replicated in subsequent periods. With respect to a number of credit funds, our performance fees are generally paid annually, semi-annually or quarterly, and the varying frequency of these payments will contribute to the volatility of our revenues and cash flow. Furthermore, we earn these performance fees only if the net asset value of a fund has increased or, in the case of certain funds, increased beyond a particular threshold, which is referred to as a “high water mark.” Such performance fees we earn are therefore dependent on the net asset value of investors’ investments in the fund, which could lead to significant volatility in our results. We may not be successful in expanding into new investment strategies, markets and businesses, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses. We actively consider the opportunistic expansion of our businesses, both geographically and into new investment strategies and platforms, and intend, to the extent that market conditions warrant, to grow our businesses by increasing AUM in existing businesses and expanding into new investment strategies, platforms, geographic markets, businesses and distribution channels, including the retail channel. We intend to grow our business in the future in part by acquisitions and joint ventures, each of which could require additional cash and equity, systems development and skilled personnel. We may experience challenges identifying, financing, consummating and integrating such acquisitions and transactions. Our organizational documents do not limit us to the asset management and retirement services businesses. Accordingly, we may pursue growth through acquisitions of other investment management companies, acquisitions of critical business partners or other strategic initiatives, including entering into new lines of business. We may not be successful in any such attempted expansion. Attempts to expand our businesses involve a number of special risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; the disruption of our ongoing businesses; entry into markets or businesses in which we may have limited or no experience; increasing demands on our operational systems and infrastructure; potential increase in investor concentration; enhanced regulatory scrutiny and greater reputational 35 and litigation risk; difficulty in combining or integrating operational and management systems; and the broadening of our geographic footprint, increasing the risks associated with conducting operations in foreign jurisdictions (including regulatory, tax, legal and reputational consequences). Additionally, any expansion of our businesses could result in significant increases in our outstanding indebtedness and debt service requirements, which would increase the risks of investing in our shares, and may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We also may not be successful in identifying new investment strategies or geographic markets that increase our profitability, or in identifying and acquiring new businesses that increase our profitability. We have also entered into strategic partnerships, separately managed accounts and sub-advisory arrangements, which lack the scale of the funds we traditionally manage and are more costly to administer. The prevalence of these accounts may also present conflicts and introduce complexity in the deployment of capital. Before expanding into new investment strategies, or making any fund investments generally, we conduct due diligence that we deem reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. When conducting due diligence, we may be required to evaluate important and complex issues, including but not limited to those related to business, financial, credit risk, tax, accounting, environmental, legal and regulatory and macroeconomic trends. The due diligence investigation that we will carry out may not reveal or highlight all relevant facts (including fraud) or risks that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity, including past or current violations of law and related legal exposure, and we may not identify or foresee future developments that could have a material adverse effect on an investment ( e.g. , technological disruption across an industry). We have increasingly undertaken business initiatives to increase the number and type of products offered to individual investors, which could expose us to new and greater levels of risk. We have increasingly undertaken business initiatives to increase the number and type of products, including externally managed vehicles, offered to investors, especially individual (non-institutional) investors (including investors often described as high net worth individuals, family offices and mass affluent individuals), in the U.S. and other jurisdictions around the world. Our investment adviser subsidiaries or affiliates currently externally manage or advise a number of such vehicles, and a number of other vehicles are expected to be launched at various times in the future. In some cases, the offerings are distributed to such investors indirectly through third-party managed vehicles sponsored by brokerage firms, private banks or other third parties, and in other cases directly to the qualified clients of private banks, independent investment advisors and brokers. In other cases, we create products specifically designed for direct investment by individual investors in the U.S., some of whom are not accredited investors, or similar investors in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including in Europe and Asia. Such products are regulated by the SEC in the U.S. and by other similar regulatory bodies in other jurisdictions. Accessing individual investors and selling products directed at such investors exposes us to new and greater levels of risk, including heightened litigation and regulatory enforcement risks. To the extent we distribute products through new channels, including through unaffiliated third-party firms, we may not be able to effectively monitor or control the manner of their distribution, which could result in litigation or regulatory action against us, including with respect to, among other things, claims that products distributed through such channels are distributed to customers for whom they are unsuitable or that they are distributed in an otherwise inappropriate manner. Although we seek to ensure through due diligence and onboarding procedures that the third parties through which individual investors access our products conduct themselves responsibly, we are exposed to the risks of reputational damage and legal liability to the extent such third parties improperly sell our products to investors. Similarly, there is a risk that Apollo employees involved in the direct distribution of our products, or employees who oversee independent advisors, brokerage firms and other third parties around the world involved in distributing our products, do not follow our compliance and supervisory procedures. In addition, the distribution of products, including through new channels, whether directly or through market intermediaries, could expose us to allegations of improper conduct and/or actions by state and federal regulators in the U.S. and regulators in jurisdictions outside of the U.S. with respect to, among other things, product suitability, investor classification, compliance with securities laws, conflicts of interest and the adequacy of disclosure to customers to whom our products are distributed through those channels. In addition, many of the products that we make available to individual investors contain terms that permit such investors to request redemption or repurchase of their interests on a periodic basis and, subject to certain limitations, include limits on the aggregate amount of such interests that may be redeemed or repurchased in a given period. Challenging market or economic conditions and liquidity needs could cause elevated share redemption or repurchase requests from investors in such products. In 36 addition, limitations can be placed on the amount of redemptions or repurchases that are fulfilled. Such limitations are particularly possible in the event redemption or repurchase requests are elevated or investor subscriptions to such products are concurrently at reduced levels. Such limitations may subject us to reputational harm and may make such vehicles less attractive to individual investors, which could have a material adverse effect on the cash flows of such vehicles. This may in turn negatively impact the revenues we derive from such vehicles. As we expand the distribution of products to individual investors outside of the U.S., we are increasingly exposed to risks in non-U.S. jurisdictions. While many of the risks we face in non-U.S. jurisdictions are similar to those that we face in the distribution of products to individual investors in the U.S., securities laws and other applicable regulatory regimes can be extensive, complex and vary by jurisdiction. In addition, the distribution of products to individual investors outside of the U.S. may involve complex structures and market practices that vary by local jurisdiction. As a result, this expansion subjects us to additional complexity, litigation and regulatory risk. In addition, our initiatives to expand our individual investor base, including outside of the U.S., requires the investment of significant time, effort and resources, including the potential hiring of additional personnel, the implementation of new operational, compliance and other systems and processes and the development or implementation of new technology. There is no assurance that such efforts will be successful. We operate in highly competitive industries, which could limit our ability to achieve our growth strategies and could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We operate in highly competitive markets and compete with a large number of investment management firms, private equity, credit and real assets fund sponsors, U.S. and non-U.S. insurance and reinsurance companies, broker-dealers, financial advisors, asset managers and other financial institutions. In particular, our asset management business faces intense competition in the pursuit of outside investors for the funds we manage, and our retirement services business faces intense competition with respect to both the products it offers and the acquisition and block reinsurance transactions it pursues. These competitive pressures may have a material and adverse effect on our growth, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. We depend on certain key personnel and the loss of their services could have a material adverse effect on us. The success of our businesses depends on the efforts, judgment, business relationships, personal reputations and continued service of our key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel or damage to their personal reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Accordingly, our retention of our key personnel and our success in recruiting additional personnel is crucial to our success. If our key personnel were to join or form a competitor, our business could similarly suffer a material adverse effect. For example, some of the investors in the funds we manage could choose to invest with that competitor, another competitor or not at all, rather than in the funds we manage. We do not carry any “key man” insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of any of our key personnel. We may also not succeed in recruiting additional personnel because the market for qualified professionals is extremely competitive. Efforts to retain or attract key personnel may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, the governing agreements of certain of the funds we manage provide that in the event certain investment professionals and other key personnel fail to devote the requisite time to our businesses, the commitment period will terminate. In some instances, such termination becomes effective only if coupled with a certain percentage in interest of the fund investors or the respective fund advisory board not voting to continue the commitment period. In addition to having a significant negative impact on our revenue, net income and cash flow, the occurrence of such an event with respect to any of the funds we manage would likely result in significant reputational damage to us. Misconduct by our current and former employees, directors, advisers, third party-service providers or others affiliated with us could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain investors and by subjecting us to significant legal liability, regulatory scrutiny and reputational harm. There is a risk that our employees, directors, advisers, third party-service providers or others affiliated with us could engage, deliberately or recklessly, in misconduct or fraud that creates legal exposure for us and adversely affects our businesses. With respect to our retirement services business, our insurance businesses rely on third-party intermediaries to sell our products and services and we further rely on third-party administrators to administer a portion of our annuity contracts as well as legacy life insurance business. If anyone associated or affiliated with us, or the portfolio companies of the funds we manage, were to 37 engage, or be accused of engaging in illegal or suspicious activities, sexual harassment, racial or gender discrimination, improper use or disclosure of confidential information, fraud, payment or solicitation of bribes, misrepresentation of products and services or any other type of similar misconduct or violation of other laws and regulations, we could suffer serious harm to our brand, reputation, be subject to penalties or sanctions, face difficulties in raising funds, suffer serious harm to our financial position and current and future business relationships, as well as face potentially significant litigation or investigations. Fraud, payment or solicitation of bribes and other deceptive practices or other misconduct at the portfolio companies of the funds we manage could similarly subject us to liability and reputational damage and also harm our performance. There are a number of grounds upon which such misconduct at a portfolio company could subject us to criminal and/or civil liability, including on the basis of actual knowledge, willful blindness, or control person liability. We rely on technology and information systems, many of which are controlled by third-party vendors, to maintain the security of our information and technology networks and to conduct our businesses, and any failures or interruptions of these systems could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. We are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of personally identifiable information. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store a range of data, including our proprietary business information and intellectual property, and personally identifiable information of our employees, our investors, our retirement services business policyholders and other third parties, in our data centers and on our networks and we rely on technology and information systems to execute, confirm and settle transactions. We rely on a host of information systems and hardware systems for the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information, and the unavailability of these systems or the failure of these systems to perform as anticipated for any reason could disrupt our businesses and could result in decreased performance and increased operating costs, causing our businesses and results of operations to suffer. Although we are not currently aware of any cyberattacks or other incidents that, individually or in the aggregate, have materially affected, or would reasonably be expected to materially affect, our operations or financial condition, there can be no assurance that the various procedures and controls we utilize to mitigate these threats will be sufficient to prevent disruptions to our systems, especially because the cyberattack techniques used change frequently and are not recognized until launched, the full scope of a cyberattack may not be realized until an investigation has been performed and cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. We rely on industry accepted security measures and technology to securely maintain confidential and proprietary information maintained on our information systems. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to strengthen our computer systems, software, technology assets and networks to prevent and address potential cyberattacks, there can be no assurance that any of these measures will prove effective. Furthermore, delays in the maintenance, updates, upgrading, or patching of our information systems could adversely impact their effectiveness or could expose us, as well as our clients and others who rely upon, or have exposure to, our systems, to security and other risks. We are also dependent on an increasingly concentrated group of third-party vendors that we do not control for hosting the information systems and hardware systems that are critical to our businesses. We also rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our businesses, including for certain information systems, technology and administration of the funds we manage and compliance matters. While we require our critical third-party suppliers to implement and maintain what we believe to be effective cybersecurity and data protection measures, we cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our partners’ supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our information technology systems or the third-party information technology systems that support our services. Our ability to monitor these third parties’ information security practices is limited, and they may not have adequate information security measures in place. In addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security breach, which has happened in the past, our response may be limited or more difficult because we may not have direct access to their systems, logs and other information related to the security breach. A disaster, disruption or compromise in technology or infrastructure that supports our businesses, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us, our vendors or third parties with whom we conduct business, may have an adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our businesses without interruption which could have a material adverse effect on us. These risks could increase as vendors increasingly offer cloud-based software services rather than software services that can be operated within our own data centers. These risks also increase to the extent we engage in operations outside the U.S. We also rely on data processing systems and the secure processing, storage and transmission of information, including payment and health information. A disruption or compromise of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, costs related to data security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. 38 As new technologies, including tools that harness generative artificial intelligence and other machine learning techniques, rapidly develop and become accessible, the use of such new technologies by us, our affiliates and our third party service providers will present additional known and unknown risks, including, among others, the risk that confidential information may be stolen, misappropriated or disclosed and the risk that we and/or third party service providers may rely on incorrect, unclear or biased outputs generated by such technologies, any of which could have an adverse impact on us and our business. A significant actual or potential theft, loss, corruption, exposure, fraudulent, unauthorized or accidental use or misuse of investor, policyholder, employee or other personally identifiable or proprietary business data, whether by third parties or as a result of employee malfeasance or otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal obligations regarding such data or intellectual property or a violation of our privacy and security policies with respect to such data could result in significant remediation and other costs, fines, litigation and regulatory actions against us by the U.S. federal and state governments, the EU or other jurisdictions, various regulatory organizations or exchanges, or affected individuals, in addition to significant reputational harm. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows depend on the accuracy of our management’s assumptions and estimates, and we could experience significant gains or losses if these assumptions and estimates differ significantly from actual results. We make and rely on certain assumptions and estimates regarding many matters related to our businesses, including valuations, interest rates, investment returns, expenses and operating costs, tax assets and liabilities, tax rates, business mix, surrender activity, mortality and contingent liabilities. We also use these assumptions and estimates to make decisions crucial to our business operations. We also use assumptions and estimates to make decisions about pricing, target returns and expense structures for our insurance subsidiaries’ products and pension group annuity transactions; determining the amount of reserves our retirement services business is required to hold for its policy liabilities; determining the price our retirement services business will pay to acquire or reinsure business; determining the hedging strategies we employ to manage risks to our business and operations; and determining the amount of regulatory and rating agency capital that our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support their businesses. Similarly, our management teams make similar assumptions and estimates in planning and measuring the performance of our asset management business. In addition, certain investments and other assets and liabilities of our asset management business and our retirement services business must be, or at our election are, measured at fair value the determination of which involves the use of various assumptions and estimates and considerable judgment. The factors influencing these various assumptions and estimates cannot be calculated or predicted with certainty, and if our assumptions and estimates differ significantly from actual outcomes and results, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Many of the funds we manage invest in illiquid assets and many of the investments of our retirement services business are relatively illiquid and we may fail to realize profits from these assets for a considerable period of time, or lose some or all of the principal amount we invest in these assets if we are required to sell our invested assets at a loss at inopportune times or in response to changes in applicable rules and regulations. Many of the funds we manage invest in securities or other financial instruments that are not publicly traded or are otherwise viewed as “illiquid.” In many cases, the funds we manage may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time. The ability of many funds, particularly the private equity funds, to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the public equity markets. Furthermore, large holdings even of publicly traded securities can often be disposed of only over a substantial period of time, exposing the investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices during the disposition period. Accordingly, the funds we manage may be forced, under certain conditions, to sell securities at a loss. In addition, many investments by our retirement services business are in securities that are not publicly traded or that otherwise lack liquidity, such as its privately placed fixed maturity securities, below investment grade securities, investments in mortgage loans and alternative investments. These relatively illiquid types of investments are recorded at fair value. If a material liquidity demand is triggered and we are unable to satisfy the demand with the sources of liquidity available to us, our retirement services business could be forced to sell certain of its assets and there can be no assurance that it would be able to sell them for the values at which such assets are recorded and it might be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. In many cases, our retirement services business may also be prohibited by contract or applicable securities laws from selling such securities for a period of time. Thus, it may be impossible or costly to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet unexpected withdrawal or recapture obligations. This potential mismatch between the liquidity of assets and liabilities could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 39 Further, governmental and regulatory authorities periodically review legislative and regulatory initiatives, and may promulgate new or revised, or adopt changes in the interpretation and enforcement of existing, rules and regulations at any time that may impact our investments. Such changes in regulatory requirements could disrupt market liquidity, make it more difficult for us to source and invest in attractive private investments, and cause securities that are not publicly traded to lose value, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on the financing markets for the operation of our business. We rely on the debt and equity financing markets for the operation of our business. To the extent that debt and equity markets render financing difficult to obtain, refinance or extend, or more expensive, this may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. In addition, the ability of the funds we manage, particularly private equity funds, to exit investments on favorable terms or at all is heavily dependent on the condition of the equity markets. Many of the funds we manage utilize subscription lines of credit to fund operations and investments, including their equity contributions in a portfolio company. Some of these are also intended as a source of longer-term borrowings for investments by the relevant funds. In other cases, some funds make investments through the use of net asset value-based fund finance facilities or similar financing arrangements, margin loans or other derivative financing arrangements that are backed by the fund’s investment portfolio. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such indebtedness may not be recovered by appreciation in the assets purchased or carried, and will be lost, and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated in the event of a decline in the market value of such assets. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause the fund’s net asset value to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. However, if investment results fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund’s net asset value could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. The inability to obtain such financing on attractive terms may impact the ability of the funds we manage to achieve targeted rates of return. Additionally, certain investments by the funds we manage rely heavily on the use of leverage. The absence of available sources of senior debt financing for extended periods of time could materially and adversely affect the funds we manage. In the event that funds we manage are unable to obtain committed debt financing for potential investments, including acquisitions, or can only obtain debt at an increased interest rate or otherwise on unfavorable terms, such funds may be forced to find alternative sources of financing (including equity), may have difficulty completing otherwise profitable investments or may generate profits that are lower than would otherwise be the case, any of which could lead to a decrease in the investment income earned by us. Any failure by lenders to provide previously committed financing can also expose us to potential claims by counterparties with which funds we manage have contracted to effectuate an investment transaction ( i.e. , sellers of businesses that funds we manage may have contracted to purchase). In addition, to the extent that the current markets make it difficult or impossible for a portfolio company to refinance debt that is maturing in the near term, it may face substantial doubt as to its status as a going concern (which may result in an event of default under various agreements) or it may be unable to repay such debt at maturity and be forced to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection. Furthermore, investments in highly leveraged entities are inherently more sensitive to declines in revenues, increases in expenses and interest rates and adverse economic, market and industry developments. As a result, the risk of loss associated with a leveraged entity is generally greater than for companies with comparatively less debt. In addition, our retirement services business relies on access to lending and debt markets to provide capital and liquidity. Changes in debt financing markets may impact our retirement services business’ access to capital and liquidity. Calculations of required insurance capital may move with market movements and result in greater capital needs during economic downturns. Our retirement services business may also need additional liquidity to pay insurance liabilities in excess of its assumptions due to market impacts on policyholder behavior. Risks Relating to Our Asset Management Business We may experience a decline in revenue from our asset management business. In our asset management business, we derive revenues from: • capital committed to the funds, invested by the funds, or the net asset value of the funds; • management fees, which are based generally on the amount of capital committed or invested in the funds we manage; 40 • in connection with services relating to investments by the funds we manage, fees earned or otherwise collected by one or more service providers affiliated with us; • performance fees, based on the performance of the funds we manage; and • investment income from our investments, including as general partner. If a fund we manage performs poorly, we will receive little or no performance fees with regard to the fund and little income or possibly losses from any principal investment in the fund. Furthermore, if, as a result of poor performance of later investments in a fund’s life, the fund does not achieve total investment returns that exceed a specified investment return threshold for the life of the fund, we could be obligated to repay the amount by which performance fees that were previously distributed to us exceeds amounts to which we are ultimately entitled. Several of the funds we manage may go into clawback. There can be no assurance that we will not incur a clawback repayment obligation in the future. A variety of fees that we earn, such as origination, syndication, arranger, placement, sourcing, structuring and other similar financing-related fees, are driven in part by the pace at which the funds we manage commit to make or make investments. Any decline in the pace at which the funds we manage make investments would reduce our origination, syndication, arranger, structuring and other similar financing-related fees and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Likewise, any increase in the pace at which the funds we manage exit investments would reduce origination, syndication, arranger, structuring and other similar financing-related fees. In addition, we will experience a decrease in the amount of fee revenue if we share with fund investors a larger portion, or all, of certain types of fees generated by funds’ investments, such as management consulting fees and merger and acquisition transaction advisory fees, or if expenses arising from the operation of the funds we manage are borne by us alone, rather than the funds. Additionally, certain of our subsidiaries perform underwriting, syndicating and securities placement services for the funds we manage and their portfolio companies, for investments made by our retirement services business and for third parties. Our ability to maintain or grow these services, and the related fees we earn therefrom, depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside our control, including conditions in the debt or equity markets. The Former Managing Partners, Contributing Partners and certain current and former investment professionals have personally guaranteed, subject to certain limitations, general partner clawback obligations, and we have agreed to indemnify them for such amounts attributed to interests they previously contributed or sold to the Apollo Operating Group. In each instance, a decrease in the fees we receive from the funds we manage and other operating activities, will lead to a decrease in our revenues and may have a materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We depend on investors in the funds we manage for the continued success of our asset management business. It could become increasingly difficult for the funds we manage to raise capital as funds compete for investments from a limited number of qualified investors. Without the participation of investors, the funds we manage will not be successful in consummating their capital-raising efforts, or they may consummate them at investment levels lower than those currently anticipated. Certain institutional investors have publicly criticized compensation arrangements, including management, transaction and advisory fees. Although we have no obligation to modify any fees or other terms with respect to the funds we manage, we experience pressure to do so. In addition, certain institutional investors, including sovereign wealth funds and public pension funds, continue to demonstrate an increased preference for alternatives to the traditional investment fund structure, such as managed accounts, specialized funds and co-investment vehicles. Even though we have entered into such strategic arrangements, there can be no assurance that such alternatives will be as profitable to us as traditional investment fund structures. While we have historically competed primarily on the performance of the funds we manage, and not on the level of our management fees or performance fees relative to those of our competitors, there is a risk that management fees and performance fees in the alternative investment management industry will decline, without regard to the historical performance of a manager. Management fee or performance fee reductions on existing or future funds, without corresponding decreases in our cost structure even if other revenue streams increase, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The failure of the funds we manage to raise capital in sufficient amounts and on satisfactory terms could result in a decrease in AUM, performance fees and/or fee revenue or could result in us being unable to achieve an increase in AUM, performance fees and/or fee revenue, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any 41 modification of our existing fee arrangements or the fee structures for new funds could adversely affect our results of operations. We continue to depend on investors in the funds we manage even after the capital-raising phase of any fund. Investors in many of the funds we manage make capital commitments to those funds that we are entitled to call from those investors at any time during prescribed periods. If investors were to fail to satisfy a significant amount of capital calls for any particular fund or funds, the operation and performance of those funds could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the governing documents of substantially all of the funds we manage in which there are third party investors provide that a simple majority-in-interest of a fund’s unaffiliated investors have the right to liquidate that fund for any or no reason, which would cause management fees and performance fees to terminate. We do not know whether, and under what circumstances, the investors in the funds we manage are likely to exercise such right. Furthermore, the management agreements of the funds we manage would also terminate if we were to experience a change of control without obtaining fund investor consent. We cannot be certain that consents required for the assignment of our management agreements will be obtained if such a deemed change of control occurs. The governing agreements of certain of the funds we manage allow the investors of those funds to, among other things, (i) terminate the commitment period of the fund in the event that certain “key persons” fail to devote the requisite time to managing the fund, (ii) (depending on the fund) terminate the commitment period, dissolve the fund or remove the general partner if we, as general partner or manager, or certain “key persons” engage in certain forms of misconduct, (iii) dissolve the fund or terminate the commitment period upon the affirmative vote of a specified percentage of limited partner interests entitled to vote, or (iv) dissolve the fund or terminate the commitment period upon a change of control. In addition to having a significant negative impact on our revenue, net income and cash flow, the occurrence of such an event with respect to any of the funds we manage would likely result in significant reputational damage to us. Investors in some of the funds we manage may also at times redeem their investments on an annual, semiannual or quarterly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time when capital may not be redeemed (typically between one and five years). In a declining market, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our AUM could accelerate. The decrease in revenues that would result from significant redemptions in these funds could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, revenues, net income and cash flows. Certain investors have placed increasing importance on the impact of investments made by the funds to which they commit capital on environmental, social and governance-related issues. Consequently, certain investors may decide not to commit capital in fundraises, or to withdraw previously committed capital from the funds we manage, based on their evolving priorities. Certain investors may also condition capital commitments in a way that may constrain our capital deployment opportunities, including by limiting investment opportunities in certain sectors, or taking certain actions, or refraining therefrom, that could adversely impact the value of an investment or that could improve the value of an investment. In addition, regulatory initiatives requiring asset managers and investors to classify certain funds and their investments against certain criteria are becoming increasingly common. Some categorization requirements may be subjective and, accordingly, open to interpretation. If regulators disagree with the categorization methodologies we use, or new regulations, legislation, or regulatory guidance require a methodology of measuring or disclosing sustainability-related information that is diﬀerent from our current practice, it could have an adverse eﬀect on fundraising eﬀorts. Given the increasing scrutiny on environmental, social and governance-related matters as well as the increasing number of regulatory obligations relating to our business, our investors, the funds we manage, and their investments, there is an increasing risk that we could be perceived as or accused of making inaccurate or misleading statements regarding the investment strategies of the funds we manage, as well as about our, the funds’, and their investments’ performance against sustainability-related measures and/or initiatives. Any such perception or accusation could adversely impact our ability to raise capital and attract new investors. Conversely, so-called “anti-ESG” sentiment has also gained momentum across the U.S., with several states having enacted or proposed “anti-ESG” policies, legislation or issued related legal opinions. For example, boycott bills in certain states target financial institutions that are perceived as “boycotting” or “discriminating against” companies in certain industries (e.g., energy and mining) and prohibit state entities from doing business with such institutions and/or investing the state’s assets (including pension plan assets) through such institutions. In addition, certain states now require that relevant state entities or managers/administrators of state investments make investments based solely on pecuniary factors without consideration of environmental, social and governance factors. If investors subject to such legislation viewed our funds, policies or practices as being in contradiction of such “anti-ESG” policies, legislation or legal opinions, such investors may not invest in our funds, our ability to maintain the size of our funds could be impaired, and it could negatively affect the price of our common stock. 42 Historical performance metrics are unreliable indicators of our current or future results of operations. We have presented returns relating to the historical performance of the funds we manage and certain targets of our future performance, including by reference to the internal rate of return (“IRR”) of certain funds’ performance using a gross IRR and a net IRR calculation. The returns are relevant to us primarily insofar as they are indicative of performance fees we have earned in the past and may earn in the future, our reputation and our ability to raise new funds. The returns of the funds we manage are not, however, directly linked to returns on our shares of common stock. Moreover, the historical returns of the funds we manage should not be considered indicative of the future returns of such funds or any future funds we may raise. Performance metrics, such as IRR, going forward for any current or future fund may vary considerably from the historical performance generated by any particular fund, or for the funds we manage as a whole. Valuations for the funds we manage entail significant complications and are not an indicator for actual realizations. We value the illiquid investments held by the funds we manage based on our estimate of their fair value as of the date of determination based on third-party models, or models developed by us. In addition, because many of the illiquid investments held by the funds we manage are in industries or sectors that are unstable, in distress, or undergoing some uncertainty, such investments are subject to rapid changes in value caused by sudden company-specific or industry-wide developments. We also include the fair value of illiquid assets in the calculations of net asset values, returns of the funds we manage and our AUM. Furthermore, we recognize performance fees based in part on these estimated fair values. Because these valuations are inherently uncertain, they may fluctuate greatly from period to period. Also, they may vary greatly from the prices that would be obtained if the assets were to be liquidated on the date of the valuation and often do vary greatly from the prices the funds we manage eventually realize. If a fund realizes value on an investment that is significantly lower than the value at which it was reflected in a fund’s net asset values, the fund would suffer losses. This could in turn lead to a decline in our management fees and a loss equal to the portion of the performance fees reported in prior periods that was not actually realized upon disposition, and could slow the pace and reduce the likelihood that we earn carried interest. These effects could become applicable to a large number of investments by the funds we manage if the funds’ current valuations differ from future valuations due to market developments or other factors that are beyond our control. If asset values turn out to be materially different than values reflected in fund net asset values, fund investors could lose confidence which could, in turn, result in redemptions from the funds we manage that permit redemptions or difficulties in raising additional capital. Investments made by the funds we manage entail significant risks and uncertainties. We invest in a number of industries, products, geographical locations and strategies that entail significant risks and uncertainties, which may, if realized, have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. For example: • The funds we manage often invest in companies with weak financial conditions, poor operating results, substantial financial needs, negative net worth and/or special competitive or regulatory problems, including in business enterprises that are or may become involved in work-outs, liquidations, spin-offs, reorganizations, bankruptcies and similar transactions. • Investments by many of the funds we manage include debt instruments, equity securities, and other financial instruments of companies that the funds we manage do not control. Those investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve the interests of the funds we manage. • We generally establish the capital structure of portfolio companies and certain other fund investments, including real estate investments, on the basis of financial projections for such investments that are based primarily on management judgments. • The funds we manage acquire and dispose of investments that are subject to contingent liabilities, which could be unknown to us at the time of the transaction or, if they are known to us, we may not accurately assess or protect against the risks that they present, and could in each case result in unforeseen losses for the funds we manage. • A significant portion or all of a fund’s capital may be invested in a single investment or portfolio company and a loss with respect to such an investment or portfolio company could have a significant adverse impact on such fund’s capital. 43 • Certain of the funds we manage invest in infrastructure assets and real assets, which may expose us and the funds we manage to increased risks and liabilities that are inherent in the ownership, development and monetization of real assets. • The funds we manage invest in assets denominated in currencies that differ from the currency in which the relevant fund is denominated. • We have undertaken business initiatives to increase the number and type of investment products we could offer to investors. In each of these cases, the investments are exposed to significant risks and uncertainties, including regulatory and legal risks and oversight, adverse publicity and investor perceptions, reputational harm, counterparty default risk, inaccuracy of financial projections, inability to obtain full information as to the exact financial and operating conditions of the investment, increased likelihood that the assumptions on which we have based the investment are delayed, change or are never materialized, the effect of disruptions or volatility in the financial markets, inflation, commodity price risk, and additional exposures associated with attempts to hedge and otherwise protect from the downside of the investments. In each instance, if such risks were to materialize, the objective of our investments may not be fully realized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The performance of the funds we manage, and our performance, may be adversely affected by the financial performance of portfolio companies of the funds we manage and the industries in which the funds we manage invest. Our performance and the performance of many of the funds we manage are significantly affected by the value of the companies in which the funds we manage have invested. The funds we manage invest in companies in many different industries, each of which is subject to volatility based upon a variety of factors, including economic, political and market factors. For example: • The performance of certain of the portfolio companies of the funds we manage in the leisure and hospitality industry has been negatively impacted by macroeconomic conditions, such as inflation, and geopolitical events, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflicts in the Middle East, and the COVID-19 pandemic. • The performance of the investments of the funds we manage in the commodities markets is substantially dependent upon prevailing prices of oil and natural gas, which have been impacted by the ongoing global energy crisis. • The investments of the funds we manage in companies in the financial services sector are subject to government regulations, disclosure requirements, limits on fees, increasing borrowing costs or limits on the terms or availability of credit to such portfolio companies, and other regulatory requirements each of which may impact the conduct of such portfolio companies. • The real estate investments of the funds we manage are exposed to rising mortgage interest rates, increasing consumer debt and a low level of consumer confidence in the economy and/or the residential real estate market. • Investments of the funds we manage in commercial mortgage loans and other commercial real-estate related loans are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with mortgage loans made on the security of residential properties, and success of tenant businesses, property management decisions, competition from comparable types of properties and declines in regional or local real estate values and rental or occupancy rates. • Investments of the funds we manage in the power and energy industries involve various risks, including regulatory and market risks. The increased scrutiny of regulators and investors on the negative impacts of the power and energy industries may negatively impact the value of investments in these sectors and our ability to exit certain investments on favorable terms. Future regulatory or legislative efforts by government agencies could place additional limitations on carbon-intensive forms of power generation or the exploration, mining, extraction, distribution and/or refining of certain fossil fuels. In addition, portfolio companies of the funds we manage across a wide range of industries have experienced significant challenges in their global supply chain, including shortages in supply, or disruptions or delays in shipments, of certain materials or components used in their products, and related price increases. While to date many of these portfolio companies have been able to manage the challenges associated with these delays and shortages without significant disruption to their business, no assurance can be given that these efforts will continue to be successful. Deterioration in the domestic or international economic environment may cause decreased demand for the products and services of the portfolio companies of the funds we manage and increased competition, which could result in lower sales volume and lower prices for their products, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption of new technologies. 44 The performance of the funds we manage, and our performance, may be adversely affected to the extent the portfolio companies of the funds we manage experience adverse performance or additional pressure due to downward trends in their respective industries. The funds that we manage in our yield strategy are subject to numerous additional risks. The funds we manage in our yield strategy are subject to numerous additional risks, including the risks set forth below. • The funds we manage may concentrate investments in any one borrower or other issuer, product category, industry, region or country. • The funds we manage sometimes hold positions (including outright positions in issuers and exposure to such issuers derived through any synthetic and/or derivative instrument) in multiple tranches of securities of an issuer (or other interests of an issuer) or multiple funds sometimes have interests in the same tranche of an issuer. • Certain of these funds may engage in short-selling, which is subject to a theoretically unlimited risk of loss. • These funds are exposed to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide) or because of a credit or liquidity problem, thus causing the fund to suffer a loss. • The efficacy of the investment and trading strategies of certain funds may depend largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of different financial instruments, which can be difficult to execute. • Certain of these funds originate, acquire or participate in (including through assignments and sub-participation) loans, including, but not limited to, secured and unsecured notes, senior and second lien loans, mezzanine loans, non-performing loans or other high-risk receivables and other similar investments in below investment grade or unrated debt which are or may become illiquid. • These funds’ investments are subject to risks relating to investments in commodities, swaps, futures, options and other derivatives, the prices of which are highly volatile and may be subject to a theoretically unlimited risk of loss in certain circumstances. Risks Related to Our Retirement Services Business A financial strength rating downgrade, potential downgrade or any other negative action by a rating agency could make our product offerings less attractive, inhibit our ability to acquire future business through acquisitions or reinsurance and increase our cost of capital, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Various Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (“NRSROs”) review the financial performance and condition of insurers and reinsurers, including our subsidiaries, and publish their financial strength ratings as indicators of an insurer’s ability to meet policyholder obligations. These ratings are important to maintain public confidence in our insurance subsidiaries’ products, our insurance subsidiaries’ ability to market their products and our competitive position. Factors that could negatively influence this analysis include: • changes to the business practices or organizational business plan of our retirement services business in a manner that no longer supports its ratings; • unfavorable financial or market trends; • changes in NRSROs’ capital adequacy assessment methodologies in a manner that would adversely affect the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries; • a need to increase reserves to support the outstanding insurance obligations of our retirement services business; • our inability to retain our senior management and other key personnel; • rapid or excessive growth, especially through large reinsurance transactions or acquisitions, beyond the bounds of capital sufficiency or management capabilities as judged by the NRSROs; and • significant losses to the investment portfolio of our retirement services business. Some other factors may also relate to circumstances outside of our control, such as views of the NRSRO and general economic conditions. Any downgrade or other negative action by a NRSRO with respect to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, or an entity we acquire, or credit ratings of our retirement services business, could materially adversely affect us and our retirement services business’ ability to compete in many ways, including the following: • reducing new sales of insurance products; 45 • harming relationships with or perceptions of distributors, IMOs, sales agents, banks and broker-dealers; • increasing the number or amount of policy lapses or surrenders and withdrawals of funds, which may result in a mismatch of our overall asset and liability position; • requiring our retirement services business to offer higher crediting rates or greater policyholder guarantees on its insurance products in order to remain competitive; • increase borrowing costs of our retirement services business; • reducing the level of profitability and capital position of our retirement services business generally or hindering its ability to raise new capital; or • requiring our retirement services business to collateralize obligations under or result in early or unplanned termination of hedging agreements and harming the ability of our retirement services business to enter into new hedging agreements. In order to improve or maintain their financial strength ratings, our subsidiaries may attempt to implement business strategies to improve their capital ratios. We cannot guarantee any such measures will be successful. We cannot predict what actions NRSROs may take in the future, and failure to maintain current financial strength ratings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our retirement services business is subject to significant operating and financial restrictions imposed by its credit agreements and certain letters of credit and it is also subject to certain operating restrictions imposed by the indenture to which it is a party. On June 30, 2023, AHL, ALRe, AUSA and AARe, as borrowers, entered into a new, five-year revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent (the “AHL Credit Facility”), which replaced the previous revolving credit agreement dated December 3, 2019. Also on June 30, 2023, AHL and ALRe entered into a new revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (the “AHL Liquidity Facility”), which replaced the previous revolving credit agreement dated as of July 1, 2022. The AHL Credit Facility, the AHL Liquidity Facility and certain AHL letters of credit also entered into contain various covenants, which restrict the operations of our retirement services business. As a result of these restrictions, our retirement services business may be limited in how it conducts its operations and may be unable to raise additional debt financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. In addition to the covenants to which our retirement services business is subject pursuant to the AHL Credit Facility, AHL Liquidity Facility and certain letters of credit, AHL is also subject to certain limited covenants pursuant to the indenture, dated January 12, 2018, by and between AHL and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, as supplemented by the applicable supplemental indenture, by and among us and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the “AHL Indenture”). The AHL Indenture contains restrictive covenants which limit, subject to certain exceptions, AHL’s and, in certain instances, some or all of its subsidiaries’ ability to make fundamental changes, create liens on any capital stock of certain of AHL’s subsidiaries, and sell or dispose of the stock of certain of AHL’s subsidiaries. The terms of any future indebtedness of our retirement services business may contain additional restrictive covenants. If we are unable to attract and retain IMOs, banks and broker-dealers, sales of our retirement services products may be adversely affected. In our retirement services business, we distribute annuity products through a variable cost distribution network, which includes numerous IMOs, banks and broker-dealers, collectively representing numerous independent agents. We must attract and retain such marketers, agents and financial institutions to sell our products. In particular, insurance companies compete vigorously for productive agents. We compete with other life insurance companies for marketers, agents and financial institutions primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services, compensation, credit ratings and product features. Such marketers, agents and financial institutions may promote products offered by other life insurance companies that may offer a larger variety of products than we do. Our competitiveness for such marketers, agents and financial institutions also depends upon the long-term relationships we develop with them. There can be no assurance that such relationships will continue in the future. In addition, our growth plans include increasing the distribution of annuity products through banks and broker-dealers. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient marketers and agents to sell our products or if we are not successful in expanding our distribution channels within the bank and broker-dealer markets, our ability to compete and our sales volumes and results of operations could be adversely affected. 46 As a financial services company, we are exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that we are unable to meet near-term obligations as they come due. Liquidity risk is a manifestation of events that are driven by other risk types ( e.g. , market, policyholder behavior, operational). A liquidity shortfall may arise in the event of insufficient funding sources or an immediate and significant need for cash or collateral. In addition, it is possible that expected liquidity sources, such as the AHL Credit Facility and AHL Liquidity Facility, may be unavailable or inadequate to satisfy the liquidity demands described below. In particular, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, the conflicts in the Middle East, and inflation and the responses by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks continue to contribute to volatility in the financial markets and may restrict the liquidity sources available to us and further may result in an increase of our liquidity demands. We primarily have liquidity exposure through our collateral market exposure, asset liability mismatch, dependence on the financial markets for funding and funding commitments. If a material liquidity demand is triggered and we are unable to satisfy the demand with the sources of liquidity readily available to us, it may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our liquidity and sources and uses of liquidity, including information about legal and regulatory limits on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends. The amount of statutory capital that our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries have, or that they are required to hold, can vary significantly from time to time and is sensitive to a number of factors outside of our control. The U.S. insurance subsidiaries of our retirement services business are subject to state regulations that provide for minimum capital requirements (“MCR”) based on risk-based capital (“RBC”) formulas for life insurance companies relating to insurance, business, asset, interest rate and certain other risks. Similarly, the Bermuda reinsurance subsidiaries of our retirement services business are subject to MCR imposed by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (“BMA”) through the BMA’s Enhanced Capital Requirement (“ECR”) and minimum margin of solvency. In any particular year, our subsidiaries’ capital ratios and/or statutory surplus amounts may increase or decrease depending on a variety of factors, some of which are outside of our control and some of which we can only partially control, including, but not limited to, the following: • the amount of statutory income or loss generated by our insurance subsidiaries; • the amount of additional capital our insurance subsidiaries must hold to support their business growth; • changes in reserve requirements applicable to our insurance subsidiaries; • changes in market value of certain securities in our investment portfolio; • recognition of write-downs or other losses on investments held in the investment portfolio of our retirement services business; • changes in the credit ratings of investments held in the investment portfolio of our retirement services business; • changes in the value of certain derivative instruments; • changes in interest rates; • credit market volatility; • changes in policyholder behavior; • changes in corporate tax rates; • changes to the RBC formulas and interpretations of the NAIC instructions with respect to RBC calculation methodologies; and • changes to the ECR, Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement (“BSCR”), or target capital level (“TCL”) formulas and interpretations of the BMA’s instructions with respect to ECR, BSCR, or TCL calculation methodologies. Further to NAIC activities with respect to RBC calculation methodologies, the NAIC has recently adopted and is currently considering a variety of reforms to its RBC framework, which could increase the capital requirements for our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. For example, the NAIC recently adopted changes to certain statements of statutory accounting principles in connection with its principles-based bond project, which are currently scheduled to become effective on January 1, 2025, setting forth the factors to determine whether an investment in asset-backed securities qualifies for reporting on an insurer’s statutory financial statement as a bond on Schedule D-1 as opposed to Schedule BA (other long-term invested assets), the latter of which could result, among other things, in the capital charge treatment of an investment being less favorable. The NAIC also adopted an interim change to the life RBC formula for year-end 2023 and 2024 reporting to increase the RBC base factor for residual tranches of structured securities, and will further consider whether to increase or decrease the base factor in 2024. In addition, the NAIC is reviewing changes related to filing exempt status for certain securities, including a proposal that sets forth 47 procedures for the NAIC’s review of investments that are exempt from filing with the NAIC’s Securities Valuation Office, which could result in, among other things, the capital charge treatment of the investment being less favorable. During the course of 2023, the BMA issued consultation papers, and received feedback from stakeholders, on certain proposed enhancements to Bermuda’s regulatory regime for commercial insurers. The enhancements are aimed at ensuring that the regime continues to remain fit for purpose, in line with international standards and keeps pace with market developments. In addition to potential enhancements to technical provisions and computation of the BSCR, the BMA is seeking to strengthen supervisory cooperation and exchange of information and increased publication of regulatory information to further develop good governance and risk management practices, transparency, and market discipline. As at the end of 2023, draft rules and guidance notes were published for each commercial insurer class and insurance groups with the new requirements expected to come into force on March 31, 2024. NRSROs may also implement changes to their internal models, which differ from the RBC and BSCR capital models, that have the effect of increasing or decreasing the amount of statutory capital our subsidiaries must hold in order to maintain their current ratings. To the extent that one of our insurance subsidiary’s solvency or capital ratios is deemed to be insufficient by one or more NRSROs to maintain their current ratings, we may take actions either to increase the capitalization of the insurer or to reduce the capitalization requirements. If we are unable to accomplish such actions, NRSROs may view this as a reason for a ratings downgrade. Regulatory developments, including the NAIC’s adoption of amendments to its Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act and Model Regulation requiring, subject to certain exceptions, that our retirement services business file a confidential annual group capital calculation and an annual liquidity stress test with the Iowa Insurance Division, the lead state insurance regulator of its U.S. insurance subsidiaries, may increase the amount of capital that our retirement services business is required to hold and could result in it being subject to increased regulatory requirements. If a subsidiary’s solvency or capital ratios reach certain minimum levels, it could subject us to further examination or corrective action imposed by our insurance regulators. Corrective actions may include limiting our subsidiaries’ ability to write additional business, increased regulatory supervision, or seizure or liquidation of the subsidiary’s business, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Repurchase agreement programs subject us to potential liquidity and other risks. Our retirement services business may engage in repurchase agreement transactions whereby it sells fixed income securities to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms or commercial banks, with a concurrent agreement to repurchase such securities at a determined future date. These repurchase agreements provide our retirement services business with liquidity and in certain instances also allow it to earn spread income. Under such agreements, our retirement services business may be required to deliver additional securities or cash as margin to the counterparty if the value of the securities sold decreases prior to the repurchase date. If our retirement services business is required to return significant amounts of cash collateral or post cash or securities as margin on short notice or have inadequate cash on hand as of the repurchase date, it may be forced to sell securities to meet such obligations and may have difficulty doing so in a timely manner or may be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than it otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions. Rehypothecation of subject securities by the counterparty may also create risk with respect to the counterparty’s ability to perform its obligations to tender such securities on the repurchase date. Such facilities may not be available to our retirement services business on favorable terms or at all in the future. Our retirement services business is subject to the credit risk of its counterparties, including ceding companies, reinsurers, plan sponsors, and derivative counterparties. Athene and its insurance subsidiaries encounter various types of counterparty credit risk. Athene’s insurance subsidiaries cede certain risk to third-party insurance companies that may cover large volumes of business and expose them to a concentration of credit risk with respect to such counterparties. Such subsidiaries may not have a security interest in the underlying assets and despite certain indemnification rights, they retain liability to their policyholders if a counterparty fails to perform. Certain of Athene’s insurance subsidiaries also reinsure liabilities from other insurance companies and these subsidiaries may be negatively impacted by changes in the ceding companies’ ratings, creditworthiness, and market perception, or any policy administration issues. Athene further assumes pension obligations from plan sponsors that expose it to the credit risk of the plan sponsor. In addition, our retirement services business is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by its derivative agreement counterparties. If any of these counterparties is not able to satisfy its obligations to us or third parties, including policyholders, we may not achieve our targeted returns and our financial position, results of operations, liquidity and cash flow may be materially adversely affected. 48 The investment portfolio of our retirement services business may be subject to concentration risk, particularly with respect to single issuers, including Athora, among others; industries, including financial services; and asset classes, including real estate. Our retirement services business faces single issuer concentration risk both in the context of strategic alternative investments, in which it occasionally holds significant equity positions, and large asset trades, in which it generally holds significant debt positions. The most significant concentration risk exposures of our retirement services business arising in the context of strategic alternative investments, on a risk-adjusted basis, is its investment in Athora, an insurance holding company focused on the European life insurance market. Given our retirement services business’ significant exposure to these issuers, it is subject to the risks inherent in their business. For example, as a life insurer, Athora is subject to credit risk with respect to its investment portfolio and mortality risk with respect to its product liabilities, each of which may be exacerbated by unforeseen events. Further, Athora has significant European operations, which expose it to volatile economic conditions and risks relating to European member countries and withdrawals thereof, such as the U.K. In addition, Athora is subject to multiple legal and regulatory regimes that may hinder or prevent it from achieving its business objectives. To the extent that our retirement services business suffers a significant loss on its investment in these issuers, including Athora, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, from time to time, in order to facilitate certain large asset trades and in exchange for commitment fees, our retirement services business may commit to purchasing a larger portion of an investment than it ultimately expects to retain, and in such instances our retirement services business is reliant upon the ability of our asset management business to syndicate the transaction to other investors. If our asset management business is unsuccessful in its syndication efforts, our retirement services business may be exposed to greater concentration risk than what it would deem desirable from a risk appetite perspective and the commitment fee that it receives may not adequately compensate it for this risk. Our retirement services business also has significant investments in nonbank lenders focused on providing financing to individuals or entities. As a result, through these investments, we have significant exposure to credit risk. In addition to the concentration risk arising from our retirement services business’ investments in single issuers within the nonbank lending sector of the financial services industry, we have significant exposure to the financial services industry more broadly as a result of the composition of investments in our retirement services business’ investment portfolio. Economic volatility or any further macroeconomic, regulatory or other changes having an adverse impact on the financial services industry more broadly, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of the net invested assets of our retirement services business is invested in real estate-related assets. Any significant decline in the value of real estate generally or the occurrence of any of the risks described elsewhere in this report with respect to the real estate-related investments of our retirement services business could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, through the investments of our retirement services business in CML and CMBS, we have exposure to certain categories of commercial property, including office buildings and retail, that have been adversely affected by the spread of COVID-19 and the work from home trend. In addition, the CML our retirement services business holds, and the CML underlying the CMBS that our retirement services business holds, face both default and delinquency risk. Conflicts of Interest Our failure to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and adversely affect our businesses. We increasingly confront potential and actual conflicts of interest relating to our business, our investment activities and the investment activities of the funds we manage. As an asset manager, conflicts of interest can arise in connection with investment decisions, including regarding the identification, making, management, valuation, disposition, and timing of a fund’s investments. These conflicts of interest include conflicts that arise among the funds we manage as well as between us and the funds we manage and other client accounts. Certain inherent conflicts of interest arise from the fact that (i) we provide investment management services to more than one fund or client, (ii) the funds we manage often have one or more overlapping investment strategies, and (iii) we could choose to allocate an investment to more than one fund or to ourselves. Also, the investment strategies employed by us for current and future clients, or on our own behalf, could conflict with each other, and may adversely affect the prices and availability of other securities or instruments held by, or potentially considered for, one or more clients. If participation in specific investment opportunities is appropriate for more than one of the funds or other advisory clients we manage, participation in such opportunities will be allocated pursuant to our allocation policies and procedures, 49 which take into account the terms of the relevant partnership or investment management agreement as well as the decisions of our allocations committees. In addition to the potential for conflict among the funds and accounts we manage, we face the potential for conflict between us and the funds we manage or clients. These conflicts may include: (i) the allocation of investment opportunities between Apollo and the funds Apollo manages; (ii) the allocation of investment opportunities among funds with different performance fee structures, or where our personnel have invested more heavily in one fund than another; (iii) the determination of what constitutes fund-related expenses and the allocation of such expenses between our advised funds and us; and (iv) the ability of our personnel to, in certain circumstances, make investments in the funds we manage or funds managed by third parties on more favorable terms. Further, from time to time, issues arise that present actual conflicts of interest, including between us and the funds we manage, among the funds we manage, or between our employees and the funds we manage. Examples of such conflicts include, without limitation, side-by-side managed funds with overlapping investment mandates; affiliated transactions (including principal transactions) between the funds we manage and/or between the funds we manage and Apollo and/or their portfolio investments; multi-tranche investments where the funds we manage are invested in one or more tranches of a portfolio investment while others are invested on a non-pari passu basis in the same or different tranches of such investment; and the use of affiliated service providers. Funds we manage hold interests in businesses, including operating companies and/or portfolio investments, that originate assets on a recurring basis, which we refer to as origination platforms. Through their origination business, the origination platforms create investment opportunities for us, our affiliates, as well as for the funds we manage in addition to third parties. Where such investment opportunities are allocated to the funds we manage, they can give rise to management fees, incentive compensation payable or allocable to us, and additional transaction-based compensation payable to our affiliated service providers, including the capital solutions fees discussed herein, which gives rise to conflicts of interest among us and the funds we manage. The documents of the funds we manage typically do not mandate specific allocations with respect to co-investments. The investment advisers of the funds and accounts we manage may have an incentive to provide potential co-investment opportunities to certain investors in lieu of others and/or in lieu of an allocation to the funds we manage (including, for example, as part of an investor’s overall strategic relationship with us) if such allocations are expected to generate relatively greater fees or performance allocations to us than would arise if such co-investment opportunities were allocated otherwise. The funds we manage invest in portfolio companies whose operations may be substantially similar to and/or competitive with the portfolio companies in which our other funds have invested. The performance and operation of such competing businesses could conflict with and adversely affect the performance and operation of the portfolio companies of the funds we manage, and may adversely affect the prices and availability of business opportunities or transactions available to such portfolio companies. In addition, we may take different actions across funds with similar investment programs, objectives or strategies. For example, one of the private equity funds we manage could have an interest in pursuing an acquisition, divestiture or other transaction, even though the proposed transaction would subject one or more of the investments of the credit funds we manage to additional or increased risks. We may also advise clients with investment objectives or strategies that conflict with those of certain of the funds we manage. We, the funds we manage or the portfolio companies of the funds we manage may also have ongoing relationships with issuers whose securities have been acquired by, or are being considered for investment by us. In addition, a dispute may arise between the portfolio companies of the funds we manage, and the investors in the funds we manage may be dissatisfied with our handling of such dispute. We generally operate without information barriers in our asset management business (with limited exceptions based on established policies and procedures in respect of information barriers) that some other investment management firms implement to separate business units and/or to separate persons who make investment decisions from others who might possess material non-public information that could influence such decisions. Our executive officers, investment professionals or other employees may acquire confidential or material non-public information and, as a result, they, we, the funds we manage and other clients may be restricted from initiating transactions in certain securities. In the event that any of our employees obtains such material non-public information, we may be restricted in acquiring or disposing of investments on behalf of the funds we manage, which could impact the returns generated for such funds. Notwithstanding the maintenance of restricted securities lists and other internal controls, it is possible that the internal controls relating to the management of material non-public information could fail and result in us, or one of our investment professionals, buying or selling a security while, at least constructively, in possession of material non-public information. Inadvertent trading on material non-public information could have adverse effects on our reputation, result in the imposition of regulatory or financial sanctions and, as a consequence, negatively impact our ability to provide our investment management services to our clients and the funds we manage. 50 The functions of certain of our affiliates also give rise to a number of conflicts of interest. For example, certain of our affiliates are broker-dealers registered with the SEC and members of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”) that principally conduct private placements and provide services in respect of the underwriting and syndication of securities, transaction advisory services, capital markets advisory and structuring services, sourcing services and merger and acquisition advisory services. Additionally, certain of our affiliates and/or portfolio companies of the funds we manage provide a variety of services with respect to financial instruments, including loans, that are not subject to broker-dealer regulations, such as originating, administering, arranging, structuring, placing and syndicating loans, debt advisory and other similar services to the funds we manage and their portfolio companies, as well as third parties. While we believe these kinds of transactions are beneficial to our clients and the funds we manage, the functions that our affiliates may perform give rise to a number of conflicts of interest, including, for example, with respect to the allocation of investment opportunities. In connection with the services rendered by our affiliates to the funds we manage and their portfolio companies, such affiliates and/or the portfolio companies receive fees from the funds we manage, portfolio companies of the funds we manage and third-party borrowers. Furthermore, a borrower or an issuer may view all fees, expense reimbursements and interest related to financing (or similar instrument) as one charge it is incurring as part of our financing package to them and therefore doesn’t distinguish between (x) the fees paid to our affiliates and (y) returns earned by the funds we manage whether in the form of interest, investment returns or other fees. This can lead to less negotiation over fees paid to our affiliates, potentially resulting in reduced returns for the funds we manage and an incentive to pursue investment opportunities with greater fee opportunities for our affiliates that could create a bias towards investment opportunities that generate the greatest amount of fee opportunities for our affiliates even at the expense of the investment returns sought by our clients and the funds we manage. Consequently, our relationship with these entities may give rise to conflicts of interest between (i) us and portfolio companies of the funds we manage and/or (ii) us and the funds we manage. Additionally, some of our personnel are dual affiliated with other organizations, including our affiliated broker-dealers. We employ commercially reasonable efforts to use separate teams for investment opportunities (one for our affiliated investment manager and the other for our affiliated service provider) and identify the separate services provided by each team in order to seek to ensure that the services provided by each team are readily distinguishable from each other. However, we may not be able to maintain a distinct set of services provided by the two teams for some investment opportunities, and such dual affiliation gives rise to conflicts of interest, including for example with respect to allocation of time, resources, and investment opportunities. Certain of our executive officers and senior investment professionals have established family offices to provide investment advisory, accounting, administrative and other services to their respective family accounts (including certain charitable accounts) in connection with their personal investment activities unrelated to their investments in Apollo entities. The investment activities of the family offices, and the involvement of the executive officer or senior investment professional in these activities may give rise to potential conflicts between the personal financial interests of the executive officer or senior investment professional and the interests of us, any of our subsidiaries or any stockholder other than such executive officer or senior investment professional. From time to time, we finance, securitize or employ structured finance arrangements in respect of certain of our balance sheet assets. We could also employ structured financing arrangements with respect to co-investment interests and investments in other funds made by our entities (including, potentially, co-investments with the funds we manage). These structured financing arrangements could alter our returns and risk exposure with respect to the applicable balance sheet assets as compared to our returns and risk exposure if we held such assets outside of such structured financing arrangements, and could create incentives for us to take actions in respect of such assets that we otherwise would not in the absence of such arrangements or otherwise alter our alignment with investors in such investments. These arrangements could also result in us realizing liquidity with respect to our equity investment in a fund or other entity at a different point in time (including earlier) than the limited partners of such entity. In addition to such finance arrangements, we also opportunistically invest or otherwise deploy the assets on our balance sheet. Such investments may create a platform of businesses directly owned by us, outside of the funds we manage and their portfolio companies or directly owned by the funds we manage. We may be subject to increased conflicts of interest between operating such platform businesses and the funds we manage and their portfolio companies. In addition, certain entities in which Apollo has made a balance sheet investment also may provide services to Apollo, the funds we manage or their portfolio companies, which may give rise to conflicts of interest. In addition, the funds we manage may, subject to applicable requirements in their governing documents, which may include obtaining advisory board consent, determine to sell a particular portfolio investment into a separate vehicle, which may be 51 managed by us, with different terms ( i.e. , longer duration) than the fund that originally acquired the portfolio investment, and provide limited partners with the option to monetize their investment with the fund at the time of such sale, or to roll all or a portion of their interest in the portfolio investment into a new vehicle. Under such circumstances, we may invest in or alongside the new vehicle, or hold the entirety of the portfolio investment sold by the fund through or alongside the new vehicle ( i.e. , in the event that all limited partners elect to monetize their investment at the time of sale to the new vehicle). As a consequence, conflicts of interest may arise across the funds we manage, limited partners, and us. Most of the funds we manage obtain subscription line facilities to facilitate investments and operations, including the payment of fees and expenses. If an investment fund obtains a subscription line facility, the fund’s working capital needs will in most instances be satisfied through borrowings by the fund under the subscription line facility, and, less so, by drawdowns of capital contributions by the fund. As a result, capital calls are expected to be conducted in larger amounts on a less frequent basis in order to, among other things, repay borrowings and related interest expenses due under such subscription line facilities. Where an investment fund uses borrowings under a subscription line facility in advance or in lieu of receiving capital contributions from investors to repay any such borrowings and related interest expenses, the use of such facility will result in a different (and perhaps higher) reported internal rate of return than if the facility had not been utilized and instead capital contributions from investors had been contributed at the inception of an investment. This may present conflicts of interest. Because the preferred return of investment funds typically does not accrue on such borrowings, but rather only accrues on capital contributions when made, the use of such subscription line facilities may reduce or eliminate the preferred return received by the investors and accelerate or increase distributions of performance-based allocation to the relevant general partner. This will provide the general partner with an economic incentive to fund investments through such facilities in lieu of capital contributions. However, since interest expense and other costs of borrowings under subscription lines of credit are an expense of the investment fund, the investment fund’s incurred expenses will be increased, which may reduce the amount of performance fees generated by the fund. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny of, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation which would materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulation and Litigation Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus could result in additional burdens on our businesses. We are subject to extensive regulation, including periodic examinations and requirements to obtain and maintain licenses and/or other approvals, by government agencies and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of the various laws and regulations to which we are subject are discussed in “Item 1. Business—Regulatory and Compliance Matters.” As detailed in that section, certain of our businesses, subsidiaries and/or affiliates are, among others, regulated under the Investment Advisers Act; the Investment Company Act; the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; the EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive; the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive; the EU General Data Protection Regulation (as implemented in countries in the European Economic Area) and the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation; the U.K. Data Protection Act 2018 and potentially various new and emerging EU and U.K. cybersecurity laws; the Cayman Islands Data Protection Act; the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 and a variety of other U.S. state privacy and cybersecurity laws; the Regulation on OTC Derivatives, Central Counterparties and Trade Repositories; as well as by the Financial Stability Oversight Council and similar non-U.S. regulators; the Federal Reserve; the SEC; FINRA; the U.S. Department of Labor; the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”); the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; the Federal Communications Commission; insurance regulators in U.S. states, the EU, Bermuda, U.K., Ireland, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Australia, Singapore, Canada, Cayman Islands and Malaysia; banking regulators in Germany, Slovenia and Spain; as well as rules and regulations regarding CLO risk retention, real estate investment trusts, broker-dealers, “over the counter” derivatives markets, commodity pool operators, commodity trading advisors, gaming companies, and natural resources companies. We distribute many of our products through financial intermediaries, including third-party broker-dealers, and as such, increasing broker-dealer regulation (particularly concerning marketing and sales practices) could make it more difficult and expensive for us to distribute such products. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing payments and contributions to public officials or other parties, including restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as economic sanctions and export control laws administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. 52 Increasingly, we are or may be subject to new initiatives and additional rules and regulations relating to sustainable finance and/or environmental, social and governance matters, including but not limited to: in the EU, the EU Regulation on the Establishment of a Framework to Facilitate Sustainable Investment as well as the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation and supporting regulatory technical standards; and, in the U.K., the U.K. FCA’s disclosure rules for asset managers aligned with the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures as well as the forthcoming Sustainability Disclosure Requirements and investment labelling regime and the proposed U.K. Green Taxonomy. Compliance with such laws and regulations requires increasing amounts of resources and the attention of our management team. Any violation, even if alleged, of such laws and regulations or any failure to obtain or maintain licenses and/or other regulatory approvals as required for our operations may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, cash flows and prospects. Many of these laws and regulations empower regulators, including U.S. and foreign government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions and insurance departments in the U.S., to conduct investigations and administrative proceedings that can result in penalties, fines, suspensions or revocations of licenses and/or other regulatory approvals, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, enforcement actions and settlements, or the suspension or expulsion of an investment adviser from registration or memberships. Even if an investigation or proceeding does not result in a sanction or the sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the investigation, proceeding or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing investors or fail to gain new investors. These requirements imposed by our regulators are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the funds we manage and policyholders of our retirement services and other businesses and may not necessarily be designed to protect our stockholders. Other regulations, such as those promulgated by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States and similar foreign direct investment regimes in other jurisdictions, may impair our ability to invest the funds we manage and/or for such funds to realize full value from our investments in certain industries and countries. Our businesses may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by U.S. or foreign government agencies or self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these government agencies and self-regulatory organizations. For instance, the SEC and other regulators have been increasing regulation of private funds and advisers to private funds, and this type of regulation may make it more difficult for us to manage and distribute both our private fund products and our products that are purchased by third-party private fund managers. In addition, each of the financial services and insurance industry is the focus of increased regulatory scrutiny as various U.S. state and federal government agencies and self-regulatory organizations conduct inquiries and investigations into the products and practices of the industry. Government agencies and insurance standard setters in the U.S. and worldwide have also become increasingly interested in potential risks posed by the insurance industry as a whole, and to commercial and financial activities and systems in general, as indicated by the development of ComFrame, which will be applicable to IAIGs designated by their group-wide supervisor and includes a group capital requirement in addition to the current legal entity capital requirements and any group capital requirements imposed by relevant insurance laws and regulations. Consequently, we may be subject to new, divergent, conflicting, increasingly severe regulations and restrictions on our business that could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, cash flows and prospects. On February 6, 2024, the IID identified Apollo as meeting the criteria as an IAIG and further identified Athene as the Head of the IAIG. In general, the Head of the IAIG is the uppermost entity to which obligations associated with an IAIG designation attach. As a result of these identifications, we expect Athene to be subject to the relevant capital standard that the U.S. applies to IAIGs. The IID further identified itself as the Group-Wide Supervisor for Apollo (in a distinct capacity from its role as supervisor for Athene). Iowa has been effectively serving in this role for a significant period of time; this identification is a formal recognition of the IID’s existing supervisory relationship to Apollo. At this time, we do not expect a significant impact on Athene’s capital position or capital structure; however, we cannot fully predict with certainty the impact (if any) on Athene’s capital position or capital structure and any other burdens being named an IAIG may impose on Athene or its insurance affiliates. Guaranty associations may also subject Athene to assessments that requires it to pay funds, subject to certain limits, to cover contractual obligations under insurance policies issued by insurance companies which become impaired or insolvent. Although Athene has not historically paid material amounts in connection with these assessments, we cannot accurately predict the magnitude of such amounts in the future, or accurately predict which past or future insolvencies of competitors could lead to such assessments. Any such future assessments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows and any reserves we have previously established for these potential assessments may not be adequate. 53 We are subject to third-party litigation from time to time that could result in significant liabilities and reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The activities of our businesses, including the investment activities of the funds we manage and activities of our employees in connection with the funds, their portfolio companies, our insurance subsidiaries, as well as publicly listed vehicles we manage or sponsor may subject us and certain of our employees to the risk of litigation by third parties, including fund investors dissatisfied with the performance or management of such funds, holders of our or the funds’ portfolio companies’ debt or equity, policyholders of our retirement services business, public stockholders and a variety of other potential litigants. In general, we will be exposed to risk of litigation by our investors if our management of any fund is alleged to constitute bad faith, gross negligence, willful misconduct, fraud, willful or reckless disregard for our duties to the fund, breach of fiduciary duties or securities laws, or other forms of misconduct. If such allegations are made against our Board or management, Section 220 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”) allows stockholders to access corporate books and records to investigate wrongdoing. Fund investors could sue us to recover amounts lost by the funds we manage due to our alleged misconduct, up to the entire amount of loss. Further, we may be subject to litigation arising from investor dissatisfaction with the performance of the funds we manage or from third-party allegations that we (i) improperly exercised control or influence over companies in which the funds we manage have large investments or (ii) are liable for actions or inactions taken by portfolio companies that such third parties argue we control. We are also exposed to risks of litigation or investigation relating to transactions that presented conflicts of interest that were not properly addressed. Our rights to indemnification by the funds we manage may not be upheld if challenged, and our indemnification rights generally do not cover bad faith, gross negligence, willful misconduct, fraud, willful or reckless disregard for our duties to the fund or other forms of misconduct. With many highly paid investment professionals and complex compensation and incentive arrangements, we face the risk of lawsuits relating to claims for compensation, which may individually or in the aggregate be significant in amount. We are also increasingly faced with the risk of litigation or investigation in relation to environmental, social and/or governance-related issues given the increasing scrutiny of such issues by investors, other stakeholders, regulators, and other third parties as well as due to the increasing disclosure obligations on our businesses, the funds we manage, and their portfolio companies. Such risks may relate to accusations concerning but not limited to: (i) the activities of portfolio companies, including environmental damage and violations of labor and human rights; (ii) misrepresentations of the investment strategies of the funds we manage as well as about our, the funds’, and their investments’ performance against environmental, social and/or governance-related measures and/or initiatives; or (iii) breaches of fiduciary duty in relation to the funds we manage and other violations of law related to the management of environmental, social and/or governance-related risks. If any civil or criminal litigation brought against us were to result in a finding of substantial legal liability or culpability, the litigation could, in addition to any financial damage, cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, we may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance on commercially reasonable terms or with adequate coverage levels against potential liabilities we may face in connection with potential claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Taxation The tax treatment of our structure is complex and may be subject to change as a result of new laws or regulations or differing interpretations of existing laws and regulations, under audit or otherwise, potentially on a retroactive basis. The tax treatment of our structure and transactions undertaken by us depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. income tax law for which no clear precedent or authority may be available. In addition, U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, and U.S. state and local and non-U.S. legislative and regulatory bodies, which frequently results in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to regulations and other modifications and interpretations. It is possible that future legislation increases the U.S. federal income tax rates applicable to corporations, limits further the deductibility of interest, or effects other changes that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot predict whether any particular proposed legislation will be enacted or, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be, or whether it would have any effect on us. As such, we cannot assure you that future legislative, administrative or judicial developments will not result in an increase in the amount of U.S. (including state or local) or non-U.S. tax payable by us, the funds we manage, portfolio companies owned by such funds or by investors in our 54 shares. If any such developments occur, our business, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected and such developments could have an adverse effect on your investment in our shares. Our effective tax rate and tax liability is based on the application of current income tax laws, regulations and treaties. These laws, regulations and treaties are complex, and the manner in which they apply to us and our subsidiaries is sometimes open to interpretation. Moreover, the application of such laws, regulations and treaties may not be compatible with one another. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. Although management believes its application of current laws, regulations and treaties to be correct and sustainable upon examination by the tax authorities, the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation resulting in additional tax liability or adjustment to our income tax provision that could increase our effective tax rate and/or have other unforeseen adverse tax consequences. In addition, we or certain of our subsidiaries or certain portfolio companies of the funds we manage are currently (or have been recently) under tax audit in various jurisdictions, and these jurisdictions or any others where we conduct business may assess additional tax against us. While we believe our tax positions, determinations, and calculations are reasonable, the final determination of tax upon resolution of any audits could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals. Should additional material taxes be assessed as a result of an audit, assessment, or litigation, there could be an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Our structure is subject to a number of new minimum tax regimes, the implementation of which remains uncertain. These regimes may not be compatible with one another and may cause us adverse tax consequences. The U.S. Congress, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the “OECD”) and other government bodies and organizations in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates invest or conduct business have continued to recommend and implement changes related to the taxation of multinational companies. The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, has proposed and driven the implementation by its member countries of changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting (“BEPS”) project, which is focused on a number of issues, including profit shifting among affiliated entities in different jurisdictions, interest deductibility and eligibility for the benefits of double tax treaties. The BEPS project includes a two-pillar initiative, “BEPS 2.0,” which is aimed at (1) shifting taxing rights to the jurisdiction of the consumer (“Pillar One”) and (2) ensuring all companies pay a global minimum tax (“Pillar Two”). Pillar One will, broadly, re-allocate taxing rights over 25% of the residual profits of multinational enterprises (“MNEs”) with global turnover in excess of 20 billion euros (excluding extractives and regulated financial services) to the jurisdictions where the customers and users of those MNEs are located. Pillar Two will, broadly, consist of two interlocking domestic rules (together the Global Anti-Base Erosion Rules (“GloBE Rules”)): (1) an Income Inclusion Rule (“IIR”), which imposes top-up tax on a parent entity in respect of the low-taxed income of a constituent entity; and (2) an Undertaxed Payment Rule (“UTPR”), which denies deductions or requires an equivalent adjustment to the extent the low-taxed income of a constituent entity is not subject to tax under an IIR. There will also be a treaty-based Subject To Tax Rule that allows source jurisdictions to impose limited source taxation on certain related party payments subject to tax below a minimum rate. Several aspects of the model GloBE Rules, including whether some or all of our activities may fall within the scope of the exclusions therefrom, currently remain unclear or uncertain notwithstanding existing commentary and guidance. The United Kingdom enacted legislation in July 2023 implementing the IIR via a “multinational top-up tax” (“MTT”), alongside a U.K. domestic top-up tax, that will apply to multinational enterprises for accounting periods beginning on or after December 31, 2023. It is likely that other countries or jurisdictions will implement the recommended model GloBE Rules (including either or both of the IIR or UTPR) as drafted or in a modified form, although some countries may not introduce such changes. As noted below, Bermuda has enacted the Bermuda Corporate Income Tax Act 2023 (the “Bermuda CIT”) in response to the Pillar Two initiative. The implications of these rules for our business remain uncertain, both at a domestic level in Bermuda and in terms of how the Bermuda CIT, which does not come into full effect until January 1, 2025, might interact with the U.K. MTT and UTPR legislation or other Pillar Two implementing legislation in relevant jurisdictions. In addition, depending on how the model GloBE Rules are implemented or clarified by additional commentary or guidance in the future, they may result in material additional tax being payable by our business and the businesses of the companies in which we invest. The ultimate implementation of the BEPS project may also increase the complexity and the burden and costs 55 of compliance and advice relating to our ability to efficiently fund, hold and realize investments, and could necessitate or increase the probability of some restructuring of our group or business operations. The implementation of the BEPS project may also lead to additional complexity in evaluating the tax implications of ongoing investments and restructuring transactions within our business. As noted above, on December 27, 2023, the Government of Bermuda enacted the Bermuda CIT. Commencing on January 1, 2025, the Bermuda CIT generally will impose a 15% corporate income tax on entities that are tax residents in Bermuda or have a Bermuda permanent establishment and are members of multi-national groups with consolidated revenues in excess of €750 million for at least two of the last four fiscal years. The Bermuda CIT also includes various transitional provisions and elections that may reduce the economic impact of the tax imposed. We expect that our subsidiaries that are organized in Bermuda generally will be subject to tax under the Bermuda CIT. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of the Bermuda CIT on certain of our subsidiaries, including the transitional provisions and elections that are intended to mitigate the risk of an incremental cash tax burden. Prior to the enactment of the Bermuda CIT, certain of our subsidiaries had received from the Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, as amended, Tax Assurance Certificates that they generally would not be subject to income or estate tax until March 31, 2035. Despite the enactment of the Bermuda CIT, possible future amendments, regulations or other guidance thereto, and the limited nature and duration of the Tax Assurance Certificates, we do not expect to be subject to an amount of Bermuda taxes in the future that will materially negatively affect our earnings and results of operations in any given year but there can be no assurances that any such taxes will not be imposed. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “IRA”). The IRA contains a number of tax-related provisions, including a 15% minimum corporate income tax on certain large corporations (“CAMT”) as well as an excise tax on stock repurchases. Based on interpretations and assumptions we have made regarding the CAMT, which may change once further regulatory guidance is issued, we do not currently expect the CAMT to have a material impact on our financial condition. The impact of the IRA and the CAMT on our financial condition will depend on the facts and circumstances of each year. In addition, the U.S. has enacted, pursuant to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “TCJA”), the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (“BEAT”) which also operates as a minimum tax and is generally calculated as a percentage (10% for taxable years before 2026 and 12.5% thereafter) of the “modified taxable income” of an “applicable taxpayer” and applies for a taxable year only to the extent it exceeds a taxpayer’s regular corporate income tax liability for such year, determined without regard to certain tax credits. Certain of our reinsurance agreements require our U.S. subsidiaries, including any non-U.S. subsidiaries that have elected to be subject to U.S. federal income taxation, to pay or accrue substantial amounts to certain of our non-U.S. reinsurance subsidiaries that would be characterized as “base erosion payments” with respect to which there are “base erosion tax benefits.” These and any other “base erosion payments” may cause us to be subject to the BEAT. In addition, tax authorities may disagree with our BEAT calculations, or the interpretations on which those calculations are based, and assess additional taxes, interest and penalties. There may be material adverse consequences to our business if tax authorities successfully challenge our BEAT calculations, in light of the uncertainties described above. Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation in an amount greater than expected. Certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are treated as foreign corporations under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (such subsidiaries, the “Non-U.S. Subsidiaries”). Each of the Non-U.S. Subsidiaries currently intends to operate in a manner that will not cause it to be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on a net basis in any material amount. However, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether a foreign corporation is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent establishment) in the U.S., as the law is unclear and the determination is highly factual and must be made annually. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not successfully contend that a Non-U.S. Subsidiary that does not intend to be treated as engaged in a trade or business (or as having a permanent establishment) in the U.S. does, in fact, so engage (or have such a permanent establishment). If any such Non-U.S. Subsidiary is treated as engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. (or as having a permanent establishment), it may incur greater tax costs than expected on any income not exempt from taxation under an applicable income tax treaty, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are treated as resident in the U.K. for U.K. tax purposes (the “U.K. Resident Companies”) and expect to qualify for the benefits of the income tax treaty between the U.S. and the U.K. (the “U.K. Treaty”) by reason of being subsidiaries of AGM or by reason of satisfying an ownership and base erosion test. Accordingly, our U.K. 56 Resident Companies are expected to qualify for certain exemptions from, or reduced rates of, U.S. federal taxes that are provided for by the U.K. Treaty. However, there can be no assurances that our U.K. Resident Companies will continue to qualify for treaty benefits or satisfy all of the requirements for the tax exemptions and reductions they intend to claim. If any of our U.K. Resident Companies fails to qualify for such benefits or satisfy such requirements, it may incur greater tax costs than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ownership of certain non-U.S. entities could cause us to be subject to U.S. federal income tax in amounts greater than expected, which could adversely affect the value of your investment. Certain of our investments may be in foreign corporations or may be acquired through foreign subsidiaries that would be classified as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such entities may be passive foreign investment companies (“PFICs”) or controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. For example, certain of our subsidiaries are non-U.S. companies and certain portfolio companies owned by the funds we manage are considered to be CFCs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, in December 2017, the TCJA introduced changes to the determination of when a foreign corporation is treated as a CFC and whether a U.S. shareholder of a CFC is required to include its pro rata share of certain income generated by the CFC into income currently regardless of whether the shareholder receives any related distributions of cash. Aspects of these changes remain uncertain, and we may experience adverse U.S. tax consequences as a result of our ownership of non-U.S. companies, including the recognition of taxable income attributable to such companies’ non-U.S. operations and as a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if a reinsurance agreement is entered into among related parties, the IRS is permitted to reallocate or recharacterize income, deductions or certain other items, and to make any other adjustment, to reflect the proper amount, source or character of the taxable income of each of the parties. Reinsurance agreements between our U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates may be subject to such challenge by the IRS. If the IRS were to successfully challenge our reinsurance arrangements, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Changes in tax law could adversely impact our earnings. Many of the products that our retirement services business sells and reinsures benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current U.S. federal and state income tax regimes. For example, our retirement services business sells and reinsures annuity contracts that allow the policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. Future changes in U.S. federal or state tax law could reduce or eliminate the attractiveness of such products, which could affect the sale of retirement services’ products or increase the expected lapse rate with respect to products that have already been sold. Decreases in product sales or increases in lapse rates, in either case, brought about by changes in U.S. tax law, may result in a decrease in net invested assets and therefore investment income and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (“FATCA”), certain U.S. withholding agents, foreign financial institutions (“FFIs”), and non-financial foreign entities, are required to report information about offshore accounts and investments to the U.S. or their local taxing authorities annually or be subject to a 30% U.S. withholding tax on certain U.S. payments. The reporting obligations imposed under FATCA require FFIs to comply with agreements with the IRS to obtain and disclose information about certain investors to the IRS. The administrative and economic costs of compliance with FATCA may discourage some investors from investing in U.S. funds, which could adversely affect our ability to raise funds from these investors. Other countries, such as the U.K., Luxembourg, and the Cayman Islands, have implemented regimes similar to that of FATCA. The OECD has also developed the Common Reporting Standard (the “CRS”) for exchange of information pursuant to which many countries have now signed multilateral agreements. Rules and regulations are currently and will continue to be introduced (particularly pursuant to the EU “Directive on Administrative Co-Operation”, or “DAC 6”, and the OECD’s model Mandatory Disclosure Rules) which require the reporting to tax authorities of information about certain types of arrangements, including arrangements which may circumvent the CRS. Compliance with CRS and other similar regimes could result in increased administrative and compliance costs and could subject our investment entities to increased non-U.S. withholding taxes. In addition, several of the BEPS measures, including measures covering treaty abuse, the deductibility of interest expense, local nexus requirements, transfer pricing and hybrid mismatch arrangements, are relevant to some of our fund structures and could have an adverse impact on the funds we manage, investors and the portfolio companies of the funds we manage. OECD member countries have been moving forward on the BEPS agenda but, because timing of implementation and the specific measures adopted vary among participating member countries, significant uncertainty remains regarding the full impact of the 57 BEPS project for our business. Uncertainty remains around, among other matters, access to tax treaties for some of the investments’ holding platforms, which could create situations of double taxation and adversely impact the investment returns of the funds we manage. The European Union (“EU”) adopted the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive 2016/1164 (commonly referred to as “ATAD I”), which directly implements some of the BEPS project actions points within EU law. The deadline for EU Member States to transpose ATAD I into domestic laws has passed and the Council of the EU formally adopted the Council Directive amending Directive (EU) 2016/1164 as regards hybrid mismatches with third countries (commonly referred to as “ATAD II”). ATAD II has come into force in Member States (subject to relevant derogations). ATAD I and ATAD II could cause certain of our investments to be subject to double taxation which could adversely impact the investment returns of the funds we manage. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our shares may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our shares may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. You may be unable to resell your shares at or above your purchase price, if at all. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our shares or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our shares include: variations in our quarterly operating results, which variations we expect will be substantial, or dividends; our policy of taking a long-term perspective on making investment, operational and strategic decisions, which is expected to result in significant and unpredictable variations in our quarterly returns; our creditworthiness, results of operations and financial condition; the credit ratings of the shares; dilution caused by the conversion of our Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock; the prevailing interest rates or rates of return being paid by other companies similar to us and the market for similar securities; failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our shares; additions or departures of key management personnel; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; actions by stockholders; changes in market valuations of similar companies; speculation in the press or investment community; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our businesses or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; a lack of liquidity in the trading of our shares; adverse publicity about the investment management industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; a breach of our computer systems, software or networks, or misappropriation of our proprietary information; and economic, financial, geopolitical, regulatory or judicial events or conditions that affect us or the financial markets. An investment in our shares is not an investment in any of the funds we manage, and the assets and revenues of such funds are not directly available to us. Our shares are securities of Apollo Global Management, Inc. only. While our historical consolidated and combined financial information includes financial information, including assets and revenues of certain funds we manage on a consolidated basis, and our future financial information will continue to consolidate certain of these funds, such assets and revenues are available to the fund, and not to us except through management fees, performance fees, distributions and other proceeds arising from agreements with funds, as discussed in more detail in this report. Our Certificate of Incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for certain legal actions between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum viewed by the stockholders as more favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees, and the enforceability of the exclusive forum provision may be subject to uncertainty. Article XIV of our Certificate of Incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for: (a) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (b) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, other employees or stockholders to us or our stockholders; (c) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL, the Certificate of Incorporation or our Bylaws or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; or (d) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine, except for, as to each of (a) through (d) above, any claim as to which the Court of Chancery determines that there is an indispensable party not subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery (and the indispensable party does not consent to the personal jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery within ten days following 58 such determination), which is vested in the exclusive jurisdiction of a court or forum other than the Court of Chancery, or for which the Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction. The exclusive forum provision also provides that it will not apply to claims arising under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal securities laws for which there is exclusive federal or concurrent federal and state jurisdiction, in which case the U.S. federal district courts shall be the exclusive forum for such claims unless the Company consents in writing to an alternative forum. Stockholders cannot waive, and will not be deemed to have waived under the exclusive forum provision, the Company’s compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. Although we believe this exclusive forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law in the types of lawsuits to which it applies, this exclusive forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or any of our directors, officers, other employees or stockholders, which may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Further, in the event a court finds the exclusive forum provision contained in the Certificate of Incorporation to be unenforceable or inapplicable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Declaration, payment and amounts of dividends, if any, to holders of our shares will be uncertain. It is expected that we will continue to pay an annual dividend on our common stock, with increases based on the growth of the business as determined by our board of directors. The amount of dividends, if any, that are declared or paid to our stockholders, depends on a number of factors. Our board of directors will have sole discretion to determine whether any dividends will be declared, when dividends, if any, are declared, and the amount of such dividends. We expect that such determination would be based on a number of considerations, including our results of operations and capital management plans and the market price of our shares, the availability of funds, our access to capital markets as well as industry practice and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors, such as insurance regulatory requirements applicable to our subsidiaries. In addition, our ability to pay dividends and the amount of any dividends ultimately paid in respect of our shares will, in each case, be subject to receiving funds, directly or indirectly, from our operating subsidiaries, AAM and AHL. Furthermore, the ability of these operating subsidiaries to make distributions to us will depend on satisfying applicable law with respect to such distributions and making prior distributions on the AHL outstanding preferred stock, and the ability of AAM and AHL to receive distributions from their own respective subsidiaries will continue to depend on applicable law with respect to such distributions. There can be no guarantee that our stockholders will receive or be entitled to dividends commensurate with our historical dividends. In addition, on August 11, 2023, we issued 28,750,000 shares of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock with a dividend rate of 6.75% per annum on the liquidation preference of $50 per share. The Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends. As long as any share of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock is outstanding, unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock for all preceding dividend periods have been declared and paid in full or declared and set apart for payment, we may not declare, pay or set apart for payment any dividends on our common stock or any other class or series of stock that ranks junior to the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Dividends on the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock are discretionary and cumulative. Holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will only receive dividends on their shares when, as and if declared by our board of directors. If dividends on the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more quarterly dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, together as a class with holders of any other series of parity stock with like voting rights, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to our board of directors. This right to elect additional directors to our board of directors will dilute the representation of our stockholders on our board of directors and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When quarterly dividends have been declared and set apart for payment in full, the right of the holders of Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock to elect these two additional directors will cease, the terms of office of these two directors will forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Additional risks related to the Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock are contained in the prospectus supplement dated August 8, 2023.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Apollo Global Management, Inc.’s consolidated financial statements and the related notes as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 and for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in the section of this report entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” The highlights listed below have had significant effects on many items within our consolidated financial statements and affect the comparison of the current period’s activity with those of prior periods. Target returns included in this report are presented gross and do not account for fees, expenses and taxes, which will reduce returns. Target returns are neither guarantees nor predictions or projections of future performance. There can be no assurance that target returns will be achieved or that Apollo will be successful in implementing the applicable strategy. Actual gross and net returns for funds managed by Apollo, and individual investors participating directly or indirectly in funds managed by Apollo, may vary significantly from the target returns set forth herein. General Our Businesses Founded in 1990, Apollo is a high-growth, global alternative asset manager and a retirement services provider. Apollo conducts its business primarily in the United States through the following three reportable segments: Asset Management, Retirement Services and Principal Investing. These business segments are differentiated based on the investment services they provide as well as varying investing strategies. As of December 31, 2023, Apollo had a team of 4,879 employees, including 1,976 employees of Athene. Asset Management Our Asset Management segment focuses on three investing strategies: yield, hybrid and equity. We have a flexible mandate in many of the funds we manage which enables the funds to invest opportunistically across a company’s capital structure. We raise, invest and manage funds, accounts and other vehicles on behalf of some of the world’s most prominent pension, endowment and sovereign wealth funds and insurance companies, as well as other institutional and individual investors. As of December 31, 2023, we had total AUM of $651 billion. The yield, hybrid and equity investing strategies of our Asset Management segment reflect the range of investment capabilities across our platform based on relative risk and return. As an asset manager, we earn fees for providing investment management services and expertise to our client base. The amount of fees charged for managing these assets depends on the underlying investment strategy, liquidity profile, and, ultimately, our ability to generate returns for our clients. We also earn capital solutions fees as part of our growing capital solutions business and as part of monitoring and deployment activity alongside our sizeable private equity franchise. After expenses, we call the resulting earnings stream “Fee Related Earnings” or “FRE”, which represents the primary performance measure for the Asset Management segment. Yield Yield is our largest asset management strategy with $480 billion of AUM as of December 31, 2023. Our yield strategy focuses on generating excess returns through high-quality credit underwriting and origination. Beyond participation in the traditional issuance and secondary credit markets, through our origination platforms and corporate solutions capabilities we seek to originate attractive and safe-yielding assets for the investors in the funds we manage. Within our yield strategy, we target 4% to 10% returns for our clients. Since inception, the total return yield fund has generated a 6% gross ROE and a 5% net ROE annualized through December 31, 2023. Hybrid Our hybrid strategy, with $62 billion of AUM as of December 31, 2023, brings together our capabilities across debt and equity to seek to offer a differentiated risk-adjusted return with an emphasis on structured downside protected opportunities across asset classes. We target 8% to 15% returns within our hybrid strategy by pursuing investments in all market environments, deploying capital during both periods of dislocation and market strength, and focusing on different investing strategies and asset 66 classes. The flagship hybrid credit hedge fund we manage has generated an 11% gross ROE and a 7% net ROE annualized and the hybrid value funds we manage have generated a 20% gross IRR and a 15% net IRR from inception through December 31, 2023. Equity Our equity strategy manages $108 billion of AUM as of December 31, 2023. Our equity strategy emphasizes flexibility, complexity, and purchase price discipline to drive opportunistic-like returns for our clients throughout market cycles. Apollo’s equity team has experience across sectors, industries, and geographies in both private equity and real estate equity. Our control equity transactions are principally buyouts, corporate carveouts and distressed investments, while the real estate funds we manage generally transact in single asset, portfolio and platform acquisitions. Within our equity strategy, we target returns above 15% in the funds we manage. We have consistently produced attractive long-term investment returns in the traditional private equity funds we manage, generating a 39% gross IRR and a 24% net IRR on a compound annual basis from inception through December 31, 2023. Retirement Services Our retirement services business is conducted by Athene, a leading financial services company that specializes in issuing, reinsuring and acquiring retirement savings products designed for the increasing number of individuals and institutions seeking to fund retirement needs. Athene’s primary product line is annuities, which include fixed, payout and group annuities issued in conjunction with pension group annuity transactions. Athene also offers funding agreements, which are comprised of funding agreements issued under its FABN and FABR programs, funding agreements issued to the FHLB and repurchase agreements with an original maturity exceeding one year. Our asset management business provides a full suite of services for Athene’s investment portfolio, including direct investment management, asset allocation, mergers and acquisitions asset diligence and certain operational support services, including investment compliance, tax, legal and risk management support. Our retirement services business focuses on generating spread income by combining the two core competencies of (1) sourcing long-term, persistent liabilities and (2) using the global scale and reach of our asset management business to actively source or originate assets with Athene’s preferred risk and return characteristics. Athene’s investment philosophy is to invest a portion of its assets in securities that earn an incremental yield by taking measured liquidity and complexity risk and capitalize on its long-dated, persistent liability profile to prudently achieve higher net investment earned rates, rather than assuming incremental credit risk. A cornerstone of Athene’s investment philosophy is that given the operating leverage inherent in its business, modest investment outperformance can translate to outsized return performance. Because Athene maintains discipline in underwriting attractively priced liabilities, it has the ability to invest in a broad range of high-quality assets to generate attractive earnings. Principal Investing Our Principal Investing segment is comprised of our realized performance fee income, realized investment income from our balance sheet investments, and certain allocable expenses related to corporate functions supporting the entire company. The Principal Investing segment also includes our growth capital and liquidity resources at AGM. Over time, we may deploy capital into strategic investments over time that will help accelerate the growth of our Asset Management segment, by broadening our investment management and/or product distribution capabilities or increasing the efficiency of our operations. We believe these investments may translate into greater compounded annual growth of Fee Related Earnings. Given the cyclical nature of performance fees, earnings from our Principal Investing segment, or PII, are inherently more volatile in nature than earnings from the Asset Management and Retirement Services segments. We earn fees based on the investment performance of the funds we manage and compensate our employees, primarily investment professionals, with a meaningful portion of these proceeds to align our team with the investors in the funds we manage and incentivize them to deliver strong investment performance over time. To enhance this alignment, we have increased the proportion of performance fee income we pay to our employees over the last few years. 67 The diagram below depicts our current organizational structure: Note: The organizational structure chart above depicts a simplified version of the Apollo structure. It does not include all legal entities in the structure. (1) Includes direct and indirect ownership by AGM. Business Environment Economic and Market Conditions Our asset management and retirement services businesses are affected by the condition of global financial markets and the economy. Price fluctuations within equity, credit, commodity, foreign exchange markets, as well as interest rates and global inflation, which may be volatile and mixed across geographies, can significantly impact the performance of our business, including, but not limited to, the valuation of investments, including those of the funds we manage, and related income we may recognize. Adverse economic conditions may result from domestic and global economic and political developments, including plateauing or decreasing economic growth and business activity, civil unrest, geopolitical tensions or military action, such as the armed conflicts in the Middle East and between Ukraine and Russia, and corresponding sanctions imposed on Russia by the United States and other countries, and new or evolving legal and regulatory requirements on business investment, hiring, migration, labor supply and global supply chains. We carefully monitor economic and market conditions that could potentially give rise to global market volatility and affect our business operations, investment portfolios and derivatives, which includes global inflation. The global financial system experienced increased volatility in 2023 due to the failure of certain financial institutions, primarily U.S. regional banks. The current macroeconomic environment, recent bank failures and consolidations, changes in business and consumer behavior and other events affecting financial institutions, have also contributed to volatility in the commercial real estate market, and concerns regarding commercial real estate liquidity, financing availability and asset values, particularly in the office subsector. The potential impacts of rising interest rates and continued deposit outflows on global markets, financial institutions and macroeconomic conditions, generally, remain uncertain. Episodes of increased economic and market volatility may continue to occur and could worsen if there are additional instances of actual or threatened bank failures. For further information on the risks related to market or economic conditions and commercial real estate, see the section entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report. 68 U.S. inflation eased but remained modestly elevated in 2023 as the U.S. Federal Reserve continued its interest rate hiking cycle, given the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) persisted above the 2% target. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the annual U.S. inflation rate decreased to 3.4% as of December 31, 2023, compared to 6.5% as of December 31, 2022, following action from the U.S. Federal Reserve to temper inflation. The heightened U.S. inflation rate persists due to a combination of supply and demand factors. The U.S. Federal Reserve finished the year with a benchmark interest rate target range of 5.25% to 5.50%, unchanged from its July 2023 meeting. Equity market performance rallied in 2023. In the U.S., the S&P 500 Index increased by 24.2% in 2023, following a decrease of 19.4% in 2022. Global equity markets increased similarly in 2023, with the MSCI All Country World ex USA Index increasing by 18.6%, following a decrease of 13.8% in 2022. Conditions in the credit markets also have a significant impact on our business. Volatility in the bond market remained, however credit-sensitive debt and high yield bonds performed well in 2023. Credit markets were positive in 2023, with the BofAML HY Master II Index increasing by 13.5%, while the S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index increased by 13.1%. In terms of economic conditions in the U.S., the Bureau of Economic Analysis reported real GDP increased at an annual rate of 2.5% in 2023, following an increase of 1.9% in 2022. As of January 2024, the International Monetary Fund estimated that the U.S. economy will expand by 2.1% in 2024 and 1.7% in 2025. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the U.S. unemployment rate increased to 3.7% as of December 31, 2023, compared to 3.5% as of December 31, 2022. Foreign exchange rates can materially impact the valuations of our investments and those of the funds we manage that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The U.S. dollar weakened in 2023 compared to the euro and the British pound. Relative to the U.S. dollar, the euro appreciated 3.1% in 2023, after depreciating 5.9% in 2022, while the British pound appreciated 5.4% during 2023, after depreciating 10.7% in 2022. Oil finished 2023 down 10.7% from 2022, after spiking in October in the wake of geopolitical risks. We are actively monitoring the developments in Ukraine resulting from the Russia/Ukraine conflict and the economic sanctions and restrictions imposed against Russia, Belarus, and certain Russian and Belarussian entities and individuals. The Company continues to (i) identify and assess any exposure to designated persons or entities across the Company’s business; (ii) ensure existing surveillance and controls are calibrated to the evolving sanctions; and (iii) ensure appropriate levels of communication across the Company, and with other relevant market participants, as appropriate. As of December 31, 2023, the funds we manage have no investments that would cause Apollo or any Apollo managed fund to be in violation of current international sanctions, and we believe the direct exposure of investment portfolios of the funds we manage to Russia and Ukraine is insignificant. The Company and the funds we manage do not intend to make any new material investments in Russia, and have appropriate controls in place to ensure review of any new exposure. Institutional investors continue to allocate capital towards alternative investment managers in search of more attractive returns, and we believe the business environment remains generally accommodative to raise larger successor funds, launch new products, and pursue attractive strategic growth opportunities. Interest Rate Environment Rates decreased during the fourth quarter of 2023, but ended the year flat, with the U.S. 10-year Treasury yield at 3.88% at the end of the year. The U.S. 2-year and 10-year Treasury yield curves remain inverted. Despite the magnitude of the inversion having decreased recently, recessionary concerns remain. With respect to Retirement Services, Athene’s investment portfolio consists predominantly of fixed maturity investments. If prevailing interest rates were to rise, we believe the yield on Athene’s new investment purchases may also rise and its investment income from floating rate investments would increase, while the value of its existing investments may decline. If prevailing interest rates were to decline significantly, the yield on Athene’s new investment purchases may decline and its investment income from floating rate investments would decrease, while the value of its existing investments may increase. Athene addresses interest rate risk through managing the duration of the liabilities it sources with assets it acquires through asset liability management (“ALM”) modeling. As part of its investment strategy, Athene purchases floating rate investments, which are expected to perform well in a rising interest rate environment and are expected to underperform in a declining rate environment. As of December 31, 2023, Athene’s net invested asset portfolio included $42.5 billion of floating rate 69 investments, or 20% of its net invested assets, and its net reserve liabilities included $17.7 billion of floating rate liabilities at notional, or 8% of its net invested assets, resulting in $24.8 billion of net floating rate assets, or 12% of its net invested assets. If prevailing interest rates were to rise, we believe Athene’s products would be more attractive to consumers and its sales would likely increase. If prevailing interest rates were to decline, it is likely that Athene’s products would be less attractive to consumers and its sales would likely decrease. In periods of prolonged low interest rates, the net investment spread may be negatively impacted by reduced investment income to the extent that Athene is unable to adequately reduce policyholder crediting rates due to policyholder guarantees in the form of minimum crediting rates or otherwise due to market conditions. A significant majority of Athene’s deferred annuity products have crediting rates that it may reset annually upon renewal, following the expiration of the current guaranteed period. While Athene has the contractual ability to lower these crediting rates to the guaranteed minimum levels, its willingness to do so may be limited by competitive pressures. See “Part II—Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” which includes a discussion regarding interest rate and other significant risks and our strategies for managing these risks. Overview of Results of Operations Financial Measures under U.S. GAAP - Asset Management The following discussion of financial measures under U.S. GAAP is based on Apollo’s asset management business as of December 31, 2023. Revenues Management Fees The significant growth of the assets we manage has had a positive effect on our revenues. Management fees are typically calculated based upon any of “net asset value,” “gross assets,” “adjusted par asset value,” “adjusted costs of all unrealized portfolio investments,” “capital commitments,” “invested capital,” “adjusted assets,” “capital contributions,” or “stockholders’ equity,” each as defined in the applicable limited partnership agreement and/or management agreement of the unconsolidated funds or accounts. Advisory and Transaction Fees, Net As a result of providing advisory services with respect to actual and potential investments, we are entitled to receive fees for transactions related to the acquisition and, in certain instances, disposition and financing of companies, some of which are portfolio companies of the funds we manage, as well as fees for ongoing monitoring of portfolio company operations and directors’ fees. We also receive advisory fees for advisory services provided to certain funds. In addition, monitoring fees are generated on certain structured portfolio company investments. Under the terms of the limited partnership agreements for certain funds, the management fee payable by the funds may be subject to a reduction based on a certain percentage (up to 100%) of such advisory and transaction fees, net of applicable broken deal costs (“Management Fee Offset”). Such amounts are presented as a reduction to advisory and transaction fees, net, in the consolidated statements of operations (see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for more detail on advisory and transaction fees, net). Performance Fees The general partners of the funds we manage are entitled to an incentive return of normally up to 20% of the total returns of a fund’s capital, depending upon performance of the underlying funds and subject to preferred returns and high water marks, as applicable. Performance fees, categorized as performance allocations, are accounted for as an equity method investment, and effectively, the performance fees for any period are based upon an assumed liquidation of the funds’ assets at the reporting date, and distribution of the net proceeds in accordance with the funds’ allocation provisions. Performance fees categorized as incentive fees, which are not accounted for as an equity method investment, are deferred until fees are probable to not be significantly reversed. The majority of performance fees are comprised of performance allocations. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 43% of the value of the investments of the funds we manage, on a gross basis, was determined using market-based valuation methods ( i.e. , reliance on broker or listed exchange quotes) and the remaining 57% was determined primarily by comparable company and industry multiples or discounted cash flow models. See “Item 1A. Risk 70 Factors—Risks Relating to Our Asset Management Business— The performance of the funds we manage, and our performance, may be adversely affected by the financial performance of portfolio companies of the funds we manage and the industries in which the funds we manage invest” for discussion regarding certain industry-specific risks that could affect the fair value of certain of the portfolio company investments of the funds we manage. In certain funds we manage, generally in our equity strategy, the Company does not earn performance fees until the investors have achieved cumulative investment returns on invested capital (including management fees and expenses) in excess of an 8% hurdle rate. Additionally, certain of the yield and hybrid funds we manage have various performance fee rates and hurdle rates. Certain of the yield and hybrid funds we manage allocate performance fees to the general partner in a similar manner as the equity funds. In certain funds we manage, as long as the investors achieve their priority returns, there is a catch-up formula whereby the Company earns a priority return for a portion of the return until the Company’s performance fees equate to its performance fee rate for that fund; thereafter, the Company participates in returns from the fund at the performance fee rate. Performance fees, categorized as performance allocations, are subject to reversal to the extent that the performance fees distributed exceed the amount due to the general partner based on a fund’s cumulative investment returns. The Company recognizes potential repayment of previously received performance fees as a general partner obligation representing all amounts previously distributed to the general partner that would need to be repaid to the Apollo funds if these funds were to be liquidated based on the current fair value of the underlying fund’s investments as of the reporting date. The actual general partner obligation, however, would not become payable or realized until the end of a fund’s life or as otherwise set forth in the respective limited partnership agreement of the fund. The table below presents an analysis of Apollo’s (i) performance fees receivable on an unconsolidated basis, (ii) unrealized performance fees and (iii) realized performance fees, inclusive of realized incentive fees: The general partners of cert ain of the funds we manage accrue performance fees, categorized as performance allocations, when the fair value of investments exceeds the cost basis of the individual investors’ investments in the fund, including any allocable share of expenses incurred in connection with such investments, which we refer to as “high water marks.” These high water 71 marks are applied on an individual investor basis. Certain of the funds we manage have investors with various high water marks, the achievement of which is subject to market conditions and investment performance. Performance fees from certain funds we manage are subject to contingent repayment by the general partner in the event of future losses to the extent that the cumulative performance fees distributed from inception to date exceeds the amount computed as due to the general partner at the final distribution. These general partner obligations, if applicable, are included in due to related parties on the consolidated statements of financial condition. The following table summarizes our performance fees since inception through December 31, 2023: Expenses Compensation and Benefits The most significant expense in our asset management business is compensation and benefits expense. This consists of fixed salary, discretionary and non-discretionary bonuses, profit sharing expense associated with the performance fees earned and compensation expense associated with the vesting of non-cash equity-based awards. Our compensation arrangements with certain employees contain a significant performance-based incentive component. Therefore, as our net revenues increase, our compensation costs rise. Our compensation costs also reflect the increased investment in people as we expand geographically and create new funds. 72 In addition, certain professionals and selected other individuals have a profit sharing interest in the performance fees earned in order to better align their interests with our own and with those of the investors in the funds we manage. Profit sharing expense is part of our compensation and benefits expense and is generally based upon a fixed percentage of performance fees. Certain of our performance-based incentive arrangements provide for compensation based on realized performance fees which includes fees earned by the general partners of the funds we manage under the applicable fund limited partnership agreements based upon transactions that have closed or other rights to incentive income cash that have become fixed in the applicable calendar year period. Profit sharing expense can reverse during periods when there is a decline in performance fees that were previously recognized. Profit sharing amounts are normally distributed to employees after the corresponding investment gains have been realized and generally before preferred returns are achieved for the investors. Therefore, changes in our unrealized performance fees have the same effect on our profit sharing expense. Profit sharing expense increases when unrealized performance fees increase. Realizations only impact profit sharing expense to the extent that the effects on investments have not been recognized previously. If losses on other investments within a fund are subsequently realized, the profit sharing amounts previously distributed are normally subject to a general partner obligation to return performance fees previously distributed back to the funds. This general partner obligation due to the funds would be realized only when the fund is liquidated, which generally occurs at the end of the fund’s term. However, indemnification obligations also exist for realized gains with respect to Fund IV, Fund V and Fund VI, which, although our Former Managing Partners and Contributing Partners would remain personally liable, may indemnify our Former Managing Partners and Contributing Partners for 17.5% to 100% of the previously distributed profits regardless of the fund’s future performance. See note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the Company’s indemnification liability. The Company grants equity awards to certain employees, including RSUs and restricted shares of common stock, that generally vest and become exercisable in quarterly installments or annual installments depending on the award terms. In some instances, vesting of an RSU is also subject to the Company’s receipt of performance fees, within prescribed periods, sufficient to cover the associated equity-based compensation expense. See note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of equity-based compensation. Other expenses The balance of our other expenses includes interest, placement fees, and general, administrative and other operating expenses. Interest expense consists primarily of interest related to the 2024 Senior Notes, the 2026 Senior Notes, the 2029 Senior Notes, the 2030 Senior Notes, the 2033 Senior Notes, the 2048 Senior Notes, the 2050 Subordinated Notes and the 2053 Subordinated Notes as discussed in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Placement fees are incurred in connection with our capital raising activities. In cases where the limited partners of the funds are determined to be the customer in an arrangement, placement fees may be capitalized as a cost to acquire a customer contract, and amortized over the life of the customer contract. General, administrative and other expenses includes occupancy expense, depreciation and amortization, professional fees and costs related to travel, information technology and administration. Occupancy expense represents charges related to office leases and associated expenses, such as utilities and maintenance fees. Depreciation and amortization of fixed assets is normally calculated using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, ranging from two to sixteen years, taking into consideration any residual value. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the expected term of the lease. Intangible assets are amortized based on the future cash flows over the expected useful lives of the assets. Other Income (Loss) Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities Net gains (losses) from investment activities include both realized gains and losses and the change in unrealized gains and losses in our investment portfolio between the opening reporting date and the closing reporting date. Net unrealized gains (losses) are a result of changes in the fair value of unrealized investments and reversal of unrealized gains (losses) due to dispositions of investments during the reporting period. Significant judgment and estimation goes into the assumptions that drive these models and the actual values realized with respect to investments could be materially different from values obtained based on the use of those models. The valuation methodologies applied impact the reported value of investment company holdings and their underlying portfolios in our consolidated financial statements. 73 Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities of Consolidated Variable Interest Entities (“VIEs”) Changes in the fair value of the consolidated VIEs’ assets and liabilities and related interest, dividend and other income and expenses subsequent to consolidation are presented within net gains (losses) from investment activities of consolidated variable interest entities and are attributable to non-controlling interests in the consolidated statements of operations. Other Income (Losses), Net Other income (losses), net includes gains (losses) arising from the remeasurement of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, remeasurement of the tax receivable agreement liability and other miscellaneous non-operating income and expenses. Financial Measures under U.S. GAAP - Retirement Services The following discussion of financial measures under U.S. GAAP is based on the Company’s retirement services business, which is operated by Athene, as of December 31, 2023. Revenues Premiums Premiums for long-duration contracts, including products with fixed and guaranteed premiums and benefits, are recognized as revenue when due from policyholders. Insurance revenues are reported net of reinsurance ceded. Product charges Revenues for universal life-type policies and investment contracts, including surrender and market value adjustments, costs of insurance, policy administration, GMDB, GLWB and no-lapse guarantee charges, are earned when assessed against policyholder account balances during the period. Net investment income Net investment income is a significant component of Athene’s total revenues. Athene recognizes investment income as it accrues or is legally due, net of investment management and custody fees. Investment income on fixed maturity securities includes coupon interest, as well as the amortization of any premium and the accretion of any discount. Investment income on equity securities represents dividend income and preferred coupon interest. Investment related gains (losses) Investment related gains (losses) primarily consist of (i) realized gains and losses on sales of investments, (ii) unrealized gains or losses relating to identified risks within AFS securities in fair value hedging relationships, (iii) gains and losses on trading securities, (iv) gains and losses on equity securities, (v) changes in the fair value of the embedded derivatives and derivatives not designated as a hedge, (vi) changes in the fair value of mortgage loan assets and (vii) allowance for expected credit losses recorded through the provision for credit losses. Expenses Interest sensitive contract benefits Universal life-type policies and investment contracts include traditional deferred annuities, indexed annuities consisting of fixed indexed and index-linked variable annuities in the accumulation phase, funding agreements, immediate annuities without significant mortality risk (which include pension group annuities without life contingencies), universal life insurance, and other investment contracts inclusive of assumed endowments without significant mortality risk. Liabilities for traditional deferred annuities, indexed annuities, funding agreements and universal life insurance are carried at the account balances without reduction for potential surrender or withdrawal charges, except for a block of universal life business ceded to Global Atlantic which is carried at fair value. Fixed indexed annuity, index-linked variable annuity and indexed universal life insurance contracts contain an embedded derivative. Benefit reserves for these contracts are reported as the sum of the fair value of the embedded derivative and the host (or guaranteed) component of the contracts. Liabilities for immediate annuities without 74 significant mortality risk are calculated as the present value of future liability cash flows and policy maintenance expenses discounted at contractual interest rates. Certain contracts are offered with additional contract features that meet the definition of a market risk benefit. See “—Market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses” below for further information. Changes in interest sensitive contract liabilities, excluding deposits and withdrawals, are recorded in interest sensitive contract benefits or product charges on the consolidated statements of operations. Future policy and other policy benefits Athene issues contracts classified as long-duration, which include term and whole life, accident and health, disability, and deferred and immediate annuities with life contingencies (which include pension group annuities with life contingencies). Liabilities for nonparticipating long-duration contracts are established as the estimated present value of benefits Athene expects to pay to or on behalf of the policyholder and related expenses less the present value of the net premiums to be collected, referred to as the net premium ratio. Liabilities for nonparticipating long-duration contracts are established using accepted actuarial valuation methods which require the use of assumptions related to discount rate, expenses, longevity, mortality, morbidity, persistency and other policyholder behavior. The liability for nonparticipating long-duration contracts is discounted using an upper-medium grade fixed income instrument yield aligned to the characteristics of the liability, including the duration and currency of the underlying cash flows. Changes in the value of the liability for nonparticipating long-duration contracts due to changes in the discount rate are recognized as a component of OCI on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Changes in the liability for the remeasurement gains or losses and all other changes in the liability are recorded in future policy and other policy benefits on the consolidated statements of operations. Future policy benefits include liabilities for no-lapse guarantees on universal life insurance and fixed indexed universal life insurance. Each reporting period, expected excess benefits and assessments are updated with actual excess benefits and assessments and the liability balance is adjusted due to the OCI effects of unrealized investment gains and losses on AFS securities. Changes in the liabilities associated with no-lapse guarantees, other than the adjustment for the OCI effects of unrealized investment gains and losses on AFS securities, are recorded in future policy and other policy benefits on the consolidated statements of operations. Market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses Market risk benefits represent contracts or contract features that both provide protection to the contract holder from, and expose the insurance entity to, other-than-nominal capital market risk. Athene’s deferred annuity contracts contain GLWB and GMDB riders that meet the criteria for, and are classified as, market risk benefits. Market risk benefits are measured at fair value at the contract level and may be recorded as a liability or an asset, which are included in market risk benefits or other assets, respectively, on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Fees and assessments collectible from the policyholder at contract inception are allocated to the extent they are attributable to the market risk benefit. If the fees are sufficient to cover the projected benefits, a non-option based valuation model is used. If the fees are insufficient to cover the projected benefits, an option-based valuation model is used to compute the market risk benefit liability at contract inception, with an equal and offsetting adjustment recognized in interest sensitive contract liabilities. Changes in fair value of market risk benefits are recorded in market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses on the consolidated statements of operations, excluding portions attributed to changes in instrument-specific credit risk, which are recorded in OCI on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Ceded market risk benefits are measured at fair value and recorded within reinsurance recoverable on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Amortization of deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements, and value of business acquired Costs related directly to the successful acquisition of new, or the renewal of existing, insurance or investment contracts are deferred. These costs consist of commissions and policy issuance costs, as well as sales inducements credited to policyholder 75 account balances, and are included in deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Deferred costs related to universal life-type policies and investment contracts with significant revenue streams from sources other than investment of the policyholder funds are grouped into cohorts based on issue year and contract type and amortized on a constant level basis over the expected term of the related contracts. The cohorts and assumptions used for the amortization of deferred costs are consistent with those used in estimating the related liabilities for these contracts. Deferred costs related to investment contracts without significant revenue streams from sources other than investment of the policyholder funds are amortized using the effective interest method. The effective interest method amortizes the deferred costs by discounting the future liability cash flows at a break-even rate. The break-even rate is solved for such that the present value of future liability cash flows is equal to the net liability at the inception of the contract. VOBA associated with acquired contracts can be either positive or negative and is amortized in relation to respective policyholder liabilities. Significant assumptions that impact VOBA amortization are consistent with those that impact the measurement of policyholder liabilities. Amortization of DAC, DSI and VOBA is included in amortization of deferred acquisition costs, deferred sales inducements and value of business acquired on the consolidated statements of operations. Policy and other operating expenses Policy and other operating expenses include normal operating expenses, policy acquisition expenses, interest expense, dividends to policyholders, integration, restructuring and other non-operating expenses, and stock compensation expenses. Other Financial Measures under U.S. GAAP Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and in evaluating income tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We recognize the income tax benefits of uncertain tax positions only where the position is “more likely than not” to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation, based on the technical merits of the positions. The tax benefit is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If a tax position is not considered more likely than not to be sustained, then no benefits of the position are recognized. The Company’s income tax positions are reviewed and evaluated quarterly to determine whether or not we have uncertain tax positions that require financial statement recognition or de-recognition. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences, using currently enacted tax rates, of differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period when the change is enacted. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Non-Controlling Interests For entities that are consolidated, but not 100% owned, a portion of the income or loss and corresponding equity is allocated to owners other than Apollo. The aggregate of the income or loss and corresponding equity that is not owned by the Company is included in non-controlling interests in the consolidated financial statements. Non-controlling interests primarily include limited partner interests in certain consolidated funds and VIEs. Prior to the Mergers on January 1, 2022, the non-controlling interests relating to Apollo Global Management, Inc. also included the ownership interest in the Apollo Operating Group held by the Former Managing Partners and Contributing Partners through their limited partner interests in AP Professional Holdings, L.P. and the non-controlling interest in the Apollo Operating Group held by Athene. The authoritative guidance for non-controlling interests in the consolidated financial statements requires reporting entities to present non-controlling interest as equity and provides guidance on the accounting for transactions between an entity and non-controlling interests. According to the guidance, (1) non-controlling interests are presented as a separate component of stockholders’ equity on the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition, (2) net income (loss) includes the net income (loss) attributable to the non-controlling interest holders on the Company’s consolidated statements of operations, (3) the primary components of non-controlling interest are separately presented in the Company’s consolidated statements of changes in stockholders’ equity to clearly distinguish the interests in the Apollo Operating Group and other ownership interests 76 in the consolidated entities and (4) profits and losses are allocated to non-controlling interests in proportion to their ownership interests regardless of their basis. Results of Operations Below is a discussion of our consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. For additional analysis of the factors that affected our results at the segment level, see “—Segment Analysis” below: 77 A discussion of our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 is included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023 (the “2022 Annual Report”). Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2022 In this section, references to 2023 refer to the year ended December 31, 2023 and references to 2022 refer to the year ended December 31, 2022. Asset Management Revenues Revenues were $3,507 million in 2023, an increase of $738 million from $2,769 million in 2022, primarily driven by an increase in management fees, investment income, and advisory and transaction fees, net. Management fees increased by $269 million to $1,772 million from $1,503 million in 2022. The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to management fees earned from the net impact of the commencement of Fund X’s fees and the fee basis step-down of Fund IX from committed to remaining invested capital, which added net fees of $131 million, inclusive of Fund X catch-up fees of $45 million in 2023, and an increase in management fees earned from ISGI advised clients of $21 million. Additionally, management fees also benefited from increases in fees earned from ADS of $24 million and ADREF and ADCF of $24 million. The increases in management fees earned from ADS, ADREF and ADCF were driven by higher fee-generating AUM and the acquisition of the Griffin Capital U.S. asset management business, respectively. Investment income increased $236 million in 2023 to $1,032 million compared to $796 million in 2022. The increase in investment income of $236 million in 2023 was driven by an increase in performance allocations of $310 million, partially offset by a decrease in principal investment income of $74 million. Significant drivers for performance allocations in 2023 were performance allocations primarily earned from Fund IX, Credit Strategies, Freedom Parent Holdings, L.P. and Redding Ridge Holdings of $759 million, $87 million, $63 million and $61 million, respectively, partially offset by performance allocation losses from Fund VIII, EPF III and MidCap Financial of $145 million, $99 million and $79 million, respectively. See below for details on the respective performance allocations in 2023. The performance allocations earned from Fund IX in 2023 were primarily driven by appreciation and realization of the fund’s investments in the (i) media, telecom and technology and (ii) leisure sectors. The performance allocations earned from Credit Strategies in 2023 were primarily driven by the net income generated by the fund’s investments. 78 The performance allocations earned from Freedom Parent Holdings, L.P. in 2023 were primarily driven by appreciation of its investment in Wheels, Inc (“Wheels”), a U.S. corporate fleet lessor platform. The performance allocations earned from Redding Ridge Holdings in 2023 were primarily driven by existing and new CLO issuances, CLO contract acquisitions, new consulting contracts and accumulation of warehouse assets. The performance allocation losses from Fund VIII in 2023 were primarily driven by depreciation and realization of the fund’s investments in the (i) consumer services and (ii) media, telecom and technology sectors. The performance allocation losses from EPF III in 2023 were primarily driven by depreciation on its commercial and residential real estate investments. The performance allocation losses from MidCap Financial in 2023 were primarily driven by the reversal of unrealized performance allocations in connection with the modification of the performance allocation arrangement. This resulted in a realization of performance allocations and a modification to the calculation of performance allocations beginning in June 2023 to be based solely on net income. See note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Advisory and transaction fees increased by $180 million to $623 million in 2023 from $443 million in 2022. Advisory and transaction fees earned during 2023 were primarily attributable to advisory and transaction fees earned from companies in the (i) financial services, (ii) real estate, (iii) chemicals, (iv) business services and (v) manufacturing and industrial sectors. Expenses Expenses were $3,739 million in 2023, an increase of $990 million from $2,749 million in 2022, primarily due to an increase in equity-based compensation expense of $454 million driven by special fully vested grants to certain senior leaders. Additionally, there was an increase in profit sharing expense of $225 million, resulting from the corresponding higher investment income during 2023, and an increase in salary, bonus and benefits of $100 million due to an increase in headcount in 2023. In any period, the blended profit sharing percentage is impacted by the respective profit sharing ratios of the funds generating performance allocations in the period. Equity-based compensation expense, in any given period, is generally comprised of: (i) performance grants which are tied to the Company’s receipt of performance fees, within prescribed periods and are typically recognized on an accelerated recognition method over the requisite service period to the extent the performance revenue metrics are met or deemed probable, and (ii) the impact of the 2021 one-time grants awarded to the Co-Presidents, all of which vest on a cliff basis subject to continued employment over five years, and a portion of which also vest on the Company’s achievement of FRE and SRE per share metrics. General, administrative and other expenses were $872 million in 2023, an increase of $190 million from $682 million in 2022. The increase in 2023 was primarily driven by an increase in professional fees, higher travel and entertainment expenses, higher placement fees, an increase in technology expenses and an increase in the amortization expense from the Company’s commitment asset and other intangible assets. Other Income (Loss) Other income (loss) was $273 million in 2023, a decrease of $424 million from $697 million in 2022. This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in net gains from investment activities of consolidated VIEs of $364 million and a decrease in net gains from investment activities of $158 million. Other income in 2022 was primarily attributable to net gains from investment activities of consolidated VIEs and income earned as a result of APSG I’s deconsolidation event. Other income in 2023 was primarily attributable to interest income earned on the Company’s money market funds and U.S. treasury securities, as a result of the rising interest rate environment, and derivatives gains, which were offset, in part, by losses from the liquidations of Apollo Strategic Growth Capital II and Acropolis Infrastructure Acquisition Corp, special purpose acquisition companies sponsored by Apollo. See note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 79 Retirement Services Revenues Retirement Services revenues were $29.1 billion in 2023, an increase of $20.9 billion from $8.2 billion in 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in investment related gains (losses), an increase in net investment income, an increase in premiums, an increase in revenues of consolidated VIEs and an increase in other revenues. Investment related gains (losses) were $1.4 billion in 2023, an increase of $14.1 billion from $(12.7) billion in 2022, primarily due to the changes in the fair value of reinsurance asset s, FIA hedging derivatives, mortgage loans and trading and equity securities, as well as realized gains on AFS securities compared to realized losses in 2022 , partially offset by foreign exchange losses on derivatives. The change in fair value of reinsurance assets increased $7.5 billion, the change in fair value of mortgage loans increased $3.2 billion and the change in fair value of trading and equity securities increased $664 million, primarily driven by a decrease in U.S. Treasury rates in 2023 compared to an increase in 2022, credit spread tightening in 2023 compared to credit spread widening in 2022 and more favorable economics. The change in fair value of FIA hedging derivatives increased $4.4 billion, primarily driven by the favorable performance of the indices upon which Athene’s call options are based. The largest percentage of Athene’s call options are based on the S&P 500 index, which increased 24.2% in 2023, compared to a decrease of 19.4% in 2022. The favorable change in net realized gains and losses on AFS securities of $1.0 billion was primarily related to foreign exchange impacts. The foreign exchange gains on AFS securities and related losses on derivatives hedging foreign denominated assets were primarily driven by the strengthening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in comparison to 2022. Foreign exchange impacts were magnified in 2023 due to the growth in foreign denominated assets. Net investment income was $12.1 billion in 2023, an increase of $3.9 billion from $8.1 billion in 2022, primarily driven by higher floating rate income, higher rates on new deployment related to the higher interest rate environment and growth in Athene’s investment portfolio attributed to strong net flows during the previous twelve months. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in alternative investment income due to less favorable alternative investment performance compared to 2022 and the transfer, beginning in the second quarter of 2022, of a significant portion of Athene’s alternative investments to AAA, a consolidated VIE. Premiums were $12.7 billion in 2023, an increase of $1.1 billion from $11.6 billion in 2022, primarily driven by the premium received from the execution of a whole life block reinsurance transaction in 2023, partially offset by an $844 million decrease in pension group annuity premiums compared to 2022 . Revenues of consolidated VIEs were $1.4 billion in 2023, an increase of $1.0 billion from $440 million in 2022, primarily related to unrealized gains on assets held by AAA, fewer losses on mortgage loans held in VIEs related to a decrease in U.S. Treasury rates in 2023 compared to an increase in 2022 as well as credit spread tightening in 2023 compared to credit spread widening in 2022, and the consolidation of additional VIEs. Other revenues were $591 million in 2023, an increase of $619 million from $(28) million in 2022, primarily driven by the $555 million gain on the settlement of the VIAC recapture agreement. Expenses Retirement Services expenses were $23.6 billion in 2023, an increase of $10.4 billion from $13.2 billion in 2022. The increase was driven by an increase in interest sensitive contract benefits, an increase in market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses, an increase in future policy and other policy benefits, an increase in policy and other operating expenses and an increase in DAC, DSI and VOBA amortization. Athene’s annual unlocking of assumptions resulted in a decrease in benefits and expenses of $22 million compared to a decrease of $94 million in 2022. The 2023 unlocking was driven by a decrease of $94 million in interest sensitive contract benefits and a decrease of $45 million in future policy and other policy benefits, partially offset by an increase of $81 million in market risk benefits and an increase of $36 million related to DAC, DSI and VOBA, compared to a decrease of $49 million in interest sensitive contract benefits, a decrease of $43 million in market risk benefits and a decrease of $2 million related to DAC, DSI and VOBA in 2022. Interest sensitive contract benefits were $6.2 billion in 2023, an increase of $5.7 billion from $538 million in 2022, primarily driven by an increase in the change in Athene’s fixed indexed annuity reserves, an increase in rates on deferred annuity and funding agreement issuances, as well as on existing floating rate funding agreements, driven by higher U.S. Treasury rates, and significant growth in Athene’s deferred annuity and funding agreement blocks of business, partially offset by a favorable 80 change in unlocking. The change in Athene’s fixed indexed annuity reserves includes the impact from changes in the fair value of FIA embedded derivatives. The increase in the change in fair value of FIA embedded derivatives of $4.2 billion was primarily due to the performance of the equity indices to which Athene’s FIA policies are linked. The largest percentage of Athene’s FIA policies are linked to the S&P 500 index, which increased 24.2% in 2023, compared to a decrease of 19.4% in 2022. The change in the fair value of FIA embedded derivatives was also driven by the unfavorable change in discount rates used in Athene’s embedded derivative calculations as 2023 experienced a decrease in discount rates compared to an increase in 2022. These impacts were partially offset by the favorable impact of rates on policyholder projected benefits. The fair value of FIA embedded derivatives unlocking in 2023 was $20 million favorable primarily due to changes to projected interest crediting, partially offset by an increase in lapse and risk margin assumptions, while 2022 unlocking was $47 million favorable primarily due to changes to projected interest crediting, partially offset by the impact of higher rates on future account values. The negative VOBA unlocking related to Athene’s interest sensitive contract liabilities in 2023 was $74 million favorable mainly due to an increase in lapse assumptions, while 2022 unlocking was $2 million favorable. Market risk benefits remeasurement (gains) losses were $404 million in 2023, an increase of $2.1 billion from $(1.7) billion in 2022. The losses in 2023 compared to gains in 2022 were primarily driven by an unfavorable change in the fair value of market risk benefits as well as an unfavorable change in unlocking. The change in fair value of market risk benefits was $2.1 billion unfavorable compar ed to 2022 due to a decrease in t he risk-free discount rate across the curve, which is used in the fair value measurement of the liability for market risk benefits. This was partially offset by a favorable change in fair value of $295 million related to favorable equity market performance compared to 2022 . The market risk benefits unlocking in 2023 was $81 million unfavorable primarily due to an increase in the income rider utilization assumption increasing projected claims, partially offset by favorable changes in lapse and income rider restart assumptions, while 2022 unlocking was $43 million favorable primarily due to lower projected claims related to the impact of higher rates. Future policy and other policy benefits were $14.4 billion in 2023, an increase of $2.0 billion from $12.5 billion in 2022, primarily driven by the $2.2 billion increase in reserves related to the execution of a whole life block reinsurance transaction in 2023, a $931 million increase in benefit payments and an increase in the AmerUs Closed Block fair value liability, partially offset by an $844 million decrease in pension group annuity obligation s and favorable unlocking. The change in the AmerUs Closed Block fair value liability was primarily due to a decrease in U.S. Treasury rates in 2023 compared to an increase in 2022 as well as credit spread tightening in 2023 compared to credit spread widening in 2022. Unlocking in 2023 was $45 million favorable consisting of $297 million of favorable future policy benefit reserve unlocking, partially offset by $252 million of unfavorable negative VOBA and deferred profit liability unlocking. The net favorable unlocking primarily related to higher interest rates and favorable mortality experience lowering future benefit payments. Policy and other operating expenses were $1.8 billion in 2023, an increase of $465 million from $1.4 billion in 2022, primarily driven by an increase in interest expense on short-term and floating rate long-term repurchase agreements and the issuance of debt in the fourth quarter of 2022, as well as an increase in general operating expenses related to growth in the business. DAC, DSI and VOBA amortization were $688 million in 2023, an increase of $244 million from $444 million in 2022 , primarily due to significant grow th in Athene’s def erred annuity block of business as well as an unfavorable change in unlocking. Unlocking in 2023 was $36 million unfavorable mainly related to an increase in lapse assumptions and changes to projected interest crediting, while unlocking in 2022 was $2 million favorable. Income Tax (Provision) Benefit The Company’s income tax (provision) benefit totaled $923 million and $739 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The change to the provision was primarily related to the increase in pretax income and a one-time deferred tax benefit recognized in 2023 due to the enactment of the Bermuda Corporate Income Tax (“CIT”) and AHL’s redomicile to the U.S. The provision for income taxes includes federal, state, local and foreign income taxes resulting in an effective income tax rate of (16.5)% and 17.4% for 2023 and 2022, respectively. The negative effective income tax rate in 2023 is primarily due to the tax benefit recognized for the Bermuda CIT. The most significant reconciling items between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and the effective income tax rate were due to the following: (i) a benefit recognized for the Bermuda CIT, (ii) a benefit recorded for AHL’s redomicile to the U.S., (iii) foreign, state and local income taxes, including NYC UBT, (iv) income attributable to non-controlling interests and (v) equity-based compensation net of the limiting provisions for executive compensation under IRC Section 162(m). Although the Company experienced a decrease to its consolidated effective income tax rate due to the Bermuda CIT deferred tax assets, and could experience a material impact to its consolidated effective tax rate as these estimates are revised, the Company does not expect material impacts to its consolidated effective tax rate or earnings and results of operations as a result of utilization of the deferred tax assets, though the Company can provide no assurance that the impacts 81 will not be material in future years (see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding the Company’s income tax provision). Managing Business Performance - Key Segment and Non-U.S. GAAP Performance Measures We believe that the presentation of Segment Income supplements a reader’s understanding of the economic operating performance of each of our segments. Segment Income and Adjusted Net Income Segment Income is the key performance measure used by management in evaluating the performance of the Asset Management, Retirement Services, and Principal Investing segments. See note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding the components of Segment Income and management’s consideration of Segment Income. We believe that Segment Income is helpful for an understanding of our business and that investors should review the same supplemental financial measure that management uses to analyze our segment performance. This measure supplements and should be considered in addition to and not in lieu of the results of operations discussed above in “—Overview of Results of Operations” that have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Adjusted Net Income (“ANI”) represents Segment Income less HoldCo interest and other financing costs and estimated income taxes. For purposes of calculating the Adjusted Net Income tax rate, Segment Income is reduced by HoldCo interest and financing costs. Income taxes on FRE and PII represents the total current corporate, local, and non-U.S. taxes as well as the current payable under Apollo’s tax receivable agreement. Income taxes on FRE and PII excludes the impacts of deferred taxes and the remeasurement of the tax receivable agreement, which arise from changes in estimated future tax rates. Certain assumptions and methodologies that impact the implied FRE and PII income tax provision are similar to those used under U.S. GAAP. Specifically, certain deductions considered in the income tax provision under U.S. GAAP relating to transaction related charges, equity-based compensation, and tax deductible interest expense are taken into account for the implied tax provision. Income Taxes on SRE represent the total current and deferred tax expense or benefit on income before taxes adjusted to eliminate the impact of the tax expense or benefit associated with the non-operating adjustments. Management believes the methodologies used to compute income taxes on FRE, SRE, and PII are meaningful to each segment and increases comparability of income taxes between periods. Fee Related Earnings, Spread Related Earnings and Principal Investing Income Fee Related Earnings, or “FRE”, is a component of Segment Income that is used as a supplemental performance measure to assess the performance of the Asset Management segment. Spread Related Earnings, or “SRE”, is a component of Segment Income that is used as a supplemental performance measure to assess the performance of the Retirement Services segment, excluding certain market volatility, which consists of investment gains (losses), net of offsets and non-operating change in insurance liabilities and related derivatives, and certain expenses related to integration, restructuring, equity-based compensation, and other expenses. Non-operating change in insurance liabilities and related derivatives includes the change in fair values of derivatives and embedded derivatives, non-operating change in funding agreements, change in fair value of market risk benefits, and non-operating change in liability for future policy benefits. Principal Investing Income, or “PII”, is a component of Segment Income that is used as a supplemental performance measure to assess the performance of the Principal Investing segment. See note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding the components of FRE, SRE, and PII. We use Segment Income, ANI, FRE, SRE and PII as measures of operating performance, not as measures of liquidity. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income or other income data prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The use of these measures without consideration of their related U.S. GAAP measures is not adequate due to the adjustments described above. 82 Net Invested Assets In managing its business, Athene analyzes net invested assets, which does not correspond to total Athene investments, including investments in related parties, as disclosed in the consolidated statements of financial condition and notes thereto. Net invested assets represent the investments that directly back Athene’s net reserve liabilities as well as surplus assets. Net invested assets is used in the computation of net investment earned rate, which is used to analyze the profitability of Athene’s investment portfolio. Net invested assets include (a) total investments on the consolidated statements of financial condition with AFS securities, trading securities and mortgage loans at cost or amortized cost, excluding derivatives, (b) cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash, (c) investments in related parties, (d) accrued investment income, (e) VIE assets, liabilities and non-controlling interest adjustments, (f) net investment payables and receivables, (g) policy loans ceded (which offset the direct policy loans in total investments) and (h) an adjustment for the allowance for credit losses. Net invested assets exclude the derivative collateral offsetting the related cash positions. Athene includes the underlying investments supporting its assumed funds withheld and modco agreements and excludes the underlying investments related to ceded reinsurance transactions in its net invested assets calculation in order to match the assets with the income received. Athene believes the adjustments for reinsurance provide a view of the assets for which it has economic exposure. Net invested assets include Athene’s proportionate share of ACRA investments, based on its economic ownership, but do not include the proportionate share of investments associated with the non-controlling interests. Net invested assets are averaged over the number of quarters in the relevant period to compute a net investment earned rate for such period. While Athene believes net invested assets is a meaningful financial metric and enhances the understanding of the underlying drivers of its investment portfolio, it should not be used as a substitute for Athene’s total investments, including related parties, presented under U.S. GAAP. Segment Analysis Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the segment information available and utilized by management to assess performance and to allocate resources. See note 22 to our consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our segment reporting. Asset Management The following table presents Fee Related Earnings, the performance measure of our Asset Management segment. Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2022 In this section, references to 2023 refer to the year ended December 31, 2023 and references to 2022 refer to the year ended December 31, 2022. FRE was $1,768 million in 2023, an increase of $358 million compared to $1,410 million in 2022. This increase was attributable to increases in all revenue line items, and primarily driven by management fees and capital solutions fees and other, net. 83 The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to management fees earned from Athene of $138 million, primarily driven by higher fee-generating AUM as a result of organic growth in retirement services clients, and fundraising across a variety of asset management strategies including the tenth vintage of our flagship private equity funds, Fund X. Management fees benefited from the net impact of the commencement of Fund X’s fees and the fee basis step-down of Fund IX from committed to remaining invested capital, which added net fees of $131 million, inclusive of Fund X catch-up fees of $45 million. Capital solutions fees earned in 2023 were primarily attributable to fees earned from companies in the (i) financial services, (ii) real estate, (iii) chemicals, (iv) business services and (v) manufacturing and industrial sectors. The growth in revenues was offset, in part, by increases in other operating expenses and fee-related compensation expense associated with the re-basing of cost structure and increased headcount to support the Company’s growth. Our disciplined expense growth amid decelerating hiring activity and investment spend translated into approximately 200 basis points of FRE margin expansion in 2023. Asset Management Operating Metrics We monitor certain operating metrics that are common to the alternative asset management industry and directly impact the performance of our Asset Management segment. These operating metrics include Assets Under Management, gross capital deployment and uncalled commitments. Assets Under Management The following presents Apollo’s Total AUM and Fee-Generating AUM by investing strategy (in billions): Note: Totals may not add due to rounding. 84 The following presents Apollo’s AUM with Future Management Fee Potential by investing strategy (in billions): Note: Totals may not add due to rounding The following tables present the components of Performance Fee-Eligible AUM for each of Apollo’s three investing strategies within the Asset Management segment: 85 The components of Fee-Generating AUM by investing strategy are presented below: Apollo, through its consolidated subsidiary, ISG, provides asset management services to Athene with respect to assets in the accounts owned by or related to Athene (“Athene Accounts”), including asset allocation services, direct asset management services, asset and liability matching management, mergers and acquisitions asset diligence, hedging and other asset management services and receives management fees for providing these services. The Company, through ISG, also provides sub-allocation services with respect to a portion of the assets in the Athene Accounts. Apollo, through its asset management business, managed or advised $278.3 billion and $236.0 billion of AUM on behalf of Athene as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Apollo, through ISGI, provides investment advisory services with respect to certain assets in certain portfolio companies of Apollo funds and sub-advises the Athora Accounts and broadly refers to “Athora Sub-Advised” assets as those assets in the Athora Accounts which the Company explicitly sub-advises as well as those assets in the Athora Accounts which are invested directly in funds and investment vehicles Apollo manages. The Company refers to the portion of the Athora AUM that is not Athora Sub-Advised AUM as “Athora Non-Sub Advised” AUM. See note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more details regarding the fee arrangements with respect to the assets in the Athora Accounts. Apollo managed or advised $49.9 billion and $52.6 billion of AUM on behalf of Athora as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. 86 The following tables summarize changes in total AUM for each of Apollo’s three investing strategies within the Asset Management segment: Year Ended December 31, 2023 Total AUM was $650.8 billion at December 31, 2023, an increase of $103.1 billion, or 18.8%, compared to $547.6 billion at December 31, 2022. The net increase was primarily driven by the Atlas transaction, growth of our retirement services AUM, and subscriptions across the platform, partially offset by distributions and redemptions. More specifically, the net increase was due to: • Net flows of $107.2 billion primarily attributable to: • an $86.4 billion increase related to the funds we manage in our yield strategy primarily consisting of (i) $37.0 billion related to the Atlas transaction, (ii) $29.6 billion related to the growth of our retirement services clients, (iii) $21.4 billion of subscriptions mostly related to the corporate credit, corporate fixed income and direct origination funds we manage, and (iv) $4.6 billion of leverage excluding the Atlas transaction; partially offsetting these increases were $(6.3) billion of redemptions primarily in the corporate credit funds we manage; • an $8.4 billion increase related to funds we manage in our hybrid strategy due to $8.5 billion of fundraising primarily across the financial credit instruments and hybrid credit funds we manage; and • a $12.4 billion increase related to funds we manage in our equity strategy due to $13.8 billion of fundraising primarily related to the traditional private equity funds we manage; partially offset by transfer activity. • Realizations of $(26.8) billion primarily attributable to: • $(13.8) billion related to funds we manage in our yield strategy, largely driven by the anticipated run-off of the investment management agreement related to Atlas; • $(6.3) billion related to funds we manage in our hybrid strategy, largely driven by distributions from the hybrid credit, financial credit instruments and illiquid opportunistic funds we manage; and • $(6.7) billion related to funds we manage in our equity strategy primarily consisting of distributions across the traditional private equity funds we manage. • Market activity of $22.7 billion primarily attributable to: • $15.4 billion related to funds we manage in our yield strategy primarily consisting of $12.2 billion related to our retirement services clients and $3.2 billion and $1.9 billion related to the corporate credit and direct origination funds we manage, respectively; partially offset by $(3.3) billion driven by Athora; • $4.0 billion related to funds we manage in our hybrid strategy related to the hybrid credit funds we manage; and • $3.4 billion related to funds we manage in our equity strategy related to the traditional private equity funds we manage. 87 The following tables summarize changes in Fee-Generating AUM for each of Apollo’s three investing strategies within the Asset Management segment: Year Ended December 31, 2023 Total Fee-Generating AUM was $493.0 billion at December 31, 2023, an increase of $80.9 billion, or 19.6%, compared to $412.1 billion at December 31, 2022. The net increase was primarily driven by growth of our retirement services client assets, the Atlas transaction, deployment and fundraising. More specifically, the net increase was due to: • Net flows of $70.3 billion primarily attributable to: • a $60.4 billion increase related to funds we manage in our yield strategy primarily consisting of (i) a $29.6 billion increase in AUM related to the growth of our retirement services clients, (ii) $20.0 billion related to the Atlas transaction, (iii) $12.2 billion of subscriptions primarily related to the corporate credit and corporate fixed income funds we manage; partially offset by $(6.0) billion of redemptions mostly related to the corporate credit funds we manage; • a $2.4 billion increase related to funds we manage in our hybrid strategy primarily due to $1.4 billion of subscriptions largely related to the hybrid credit funds we manage and deployment; partially offset by $(0.5) billion of redemptions related to hybrid credit funds we manage; and • a $7.5 billion increase related to funds we manage in our equity strategy primarily related to $7.2 billion of subscriptions largely related to traditional private equity funds we manage. • Market activity of $15.8 billion primarily attributable to funds we manage in our yield strategy consisting of (i) $12.3 billion related to our retirement services clients and (ii) $2.8 billion related to corporate credit funds we manage; partially offset by (i) $(3.3) billion related to Athora and (ii) funds in our hybrid strategy consisting of $1.2 billion largely related to the hybrid credit funds we manage. • Realizations of $(5.2) billion across our yield, hybrid and equity strategies. Gross Capital Deployment and Uncalled Commitments Gross capital deployment represents the gross capital that has been invested by the funds and accounts we manage during the relevant period, but excludes certain investment activities primarily related to hedging and cash management functions at the Company. Gross capital deployment is not reduced or netted down by sales or refinancings, and takes into account leverage used by the funds and accounts we manage in gaining exposure to the various investments that they have made. 88 Uncalled commitments, by contrast, represent unfunded capital commitments that certain of the funds we manage have received from fund investors to fund future or current fund investments and expenses. Gross capital deployment and uncalled commitments are indicative of the pace and magnitude of fund capital that is deployed or will be deployed, and which therefore could result in future revenues that include management fees, transaction fees and performance fees to the extent they are fee-generating. Gross capital deployment and uncalled commitments can also give rise to future costs that are related to the hiring of additional resources to manage and account for the additional capital that is deployed or will be deployed. Management uses gross capital deployment and uncalled commitments as key operating metrics since we believe the results are measures of investment activities of the funds we manage. The following presents gross capital deployment and uncalled commitments (in billions): As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, Apollo had $58 billion and $51 billion of dry powder, respectively, which represents the amount of capital available for investment or reinvestment subject to the provisions of the applicable limited partnership agreements or other governing agreements of the funds, partnerships and accounts we manage. These amounts exclude uncalled commitments which can only be called for fund fees and expenses and commitments from perpetual capital vehicles. 89 Retirement Services The following table presents Spread Related Earnings, the performance measure of our Retirement Services segment: Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2022 In this section, references to 2023 refer to the year ended December 31, 2023 and references to 2022 refer to the year ended December 31, 2022. Spread Related Earnings SRE was $3.1 billion in 2023, an increase of $639 million, or 26%, compared to $2.5 billion in 2022. The increase in SRE was primarily driven by higher net investment earnings, partially offset by higher cost of funds and interest and other financing costs. Net investment earnings increased $2.7 billion, primarily driven by higher floating rate income, higher rates on new deployment and $19.7 billion of growth in Athene’s average net invested assets, partially offset by less favorable alternative investment performance. The less favorable alternative investment performance compared to 2022 was primarily driven by lower income from real estate funds related to home price appreciation in 2022, less favorable performance from Athene’s investment in Challenger related to a share price decrease in 2023 compared to an increase in 2022, lower returns on its investments in Athora and Venerable attributable to valuation increases in 2022 and less favorable performance on its investment in Aqua Finance related to macroeconomic headwinds for consumer loan origination. These impacts were partially offset by favorable performance from Athene’s investment in Wheels related to an elevated growth trajectory driven by strong performance and accelerated integration post-merger, as well as favorable performance from its investment in Redding Ridge attributed to an increase in average NAV and unfavorable economics in 2022. Cost of funds increased $1.9 billion, primarily driven by higher rates on deferred annuity, funding agreement and pension group annuity issuances, as well as an increase in rates on existing floating rate funding agreements, significant growth in each of Athene’s business channels and an unfavorable change in unlocking, partially offset by the $114 million operating gain on the settlement of the VIAC recapture agreement. Unlocking, net of the non-controlling interests, was unfavorable $24 million primarily related to an increase in the income rider utilization assumption increasing projected claims. This impact was partially offset by favorable changes in lapse and income rider restart assumptions as well as higher interest rates and favorable mortality experience lowering future benefit payments. Unlocking, net of the non-controlling interests, in 2022 was favorable $3 million primarily related to the impact of higher rates on future account values, partially offset by changes to projected interest crediting. Interest and other financing costs increased $157 million related to interest expense resulting from higher rates on more short-term repurchase agreements in 2023 as well as interest expense and preferred stock dividends related to Athene’s debt and preferred stock issuances in the fourth quarter of 2022. 90 Net Investment Spread Net investment spread was 1.93% in 2023, an increase of 22 basis points compared to 1.71% in 2022, driven by a higher net investment earned rate, partially offset by higher cost of funds. Net investment earned rate was 4.61% in 2023, an increase of 95 basis points compared to 3.66% in 2022, primarily due to higher returns in Athene’s fixed income portfolio, partially offset by less favorable performance in its alternative investment portfolio. Fixed income and other net investment earned rate was 4.45% in 2023, an increase from 3.22% in 2022, primarily driven by higher floating rate income and higher new deployment rates. A lternative net investment earned rate was 7.22% in 2023, a decrease from 10.42% in 2022, primarily driven by lower income from real estate funds related to home price appreciation in 2022, less favorable performance from Athene’s investment in Challenger related to a share price decrease in 2023 compared to an increase in 2022, lower returns on its investments in Athora and Venerable attributable to valuation increases in 2022 and less favorable performance on its investment in Aqua Finance related to macroeconomic headwinds for consumer loan origination. These impacts were partially offset by favorable performance from Athene’s investment in Wheels related to an elevated growth trajectory driven by strong performance and accelerated integration post-merger, as well as favorable performance from its investment in Redding Ridge attributed to an increase in average NAV and unfavorable economics in 2022. Cost of funds was 2.71% in 2023, an increase of 73 basis points compared to 1.98% in 2022, primarily driven by higher rates on deferred annuity, funding agreement and pension group annuity issuances, as well as an increase in rates on existing floating rate funding agreements, and an unfavorable change in unlocking, partially offset by the $114 million operating gain on the settlement of the VIAC recapture agreement. Investment Portfolio Athene had investments, including related parties and VIEs, of $259.2 billion and $212.1 billion as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Athene’s investment strategy seeks to achieve sustainable risk-adjusted returns through the disciplined management of its investment portfolio against its long-duration liabilities, coupled with the diversification of risk. The investment strategies focus primarily on a buy and hold asset allocation strategy that may be adjusted periodically in response to changing market conditions and the nature of Athene’s liability profile. Athene takes advantage of its generally persistent liability profile by identifying investment opportunities with an emphasis on earning incremental yield by taking measured liquidity and complexity risk rather than assuming incremental credit risk. Athene has selected a diverse array of primarily high-grade fixed income assets including corporate bonds, structured securities and commercial and residential real estate loans, among others. Athene also maintains holdings in floating rate and less rate-sensitive instruments, including CLOs, non-agency RMBS and various types of structured products. In addition to its fixed income portfolio, Athene opportunistically allocates approximately 5% of its portfolio to alternative investments where it primarily focuses on fixed income-like, cash flow-based investments. 91 The following table presents the carrying values of Athene’s total investments, including related parties and VIEs: The $47.0 billion increase in Athene’s total investments, including related parties and VIEs, as of December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022 was primarily driven by growth from gross organic and inorganic inflows of $65.6 billion in excess of gross liability outflows of $33.9 billion, unrealized gains on AFS securities during the year ended December 31, 2023 of $5.3 billion resulting from credit spread tightening and a decrease in U.S. Treasury rates in 2023, the reinvestment of earnings, an increase in VIE investments primarily related to contributions from third-party investors into AAA and the consolidation of additional VIEs, and an increase in derivative assets primarily related to the impact of favorable equity market performance on Athene’s call options in 2023. 92 Athene’s investment portfolio consists largely of high quality fixed maturity securities, loans and short-term investments, as well as additional opportunistic holdings in investment funds and other instruments, including equity holdings. Fixed maturity securities and loans include publicly issued corporate bonds, government and other sovereign bonds, privately placed corporate bonds and loans, mortgage loans, CMBS, RMBS, CLOs and ABS. A significant majority of Athene’s AFS portfolio, 96.5% and 95.8% as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, was invested in assets considered investment grade with an NAIC designation of 1 or 2. Athene invests a portion of its investment portfolio in mortgage loans, which are generally comprised of high quality commercial first lien and mezzanine real estate loans. Athene has acquired mortgage loans through acquisitions and reinsurance arrangements, as well as through an active program to invest in new mortgage loans. It invests in CMLs on income producing properties including hotels, apartments, retail and office buildings, and other commercial and industrial properties. Athene’s RML portfolio primarily consists of first lien RMLs collateralized by properties located in the U.S. Funds withheld at interest represent a receivable for amounts contractually withheld by ceding companies in accordance with modco and funds withheld reinsurance agreements in which Athene acts as the reinsurer. Generally, assets equal to statutory reserves are withheld and legally owned by the ceding company. While the substantial majority of Athene’s investment portfolio has been allocated to corporate bonds and structured credit products, a key component of Athene’s investment strategy is the opportunistic acquisition of investment funds with attractive risk and return profiles. Athene’s investment fund portfolio consists of funds or similar equity structures that employ various strategies including equity, hybrid and yield funds. Athene has a strong preference for alternative investments that have some or all of the following characteristics, among others: (1) investments that constitute a direct investment or an investment in a fund with a high degree of co-investment; (2) investments with credit- or debt-like characteristics (for example, a stipulated maturity and par value), or alternatively, investments with reduced volatility when compared to pure equity; or (3) investments that Athene believes have less downside risk. Athene holds derivatives for economic hedging purposes to reduce its exposure to the cash flow variability of assets and liabilities, equity market risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and foreign exchange risk. Athene’s primary use of derivative instruments relates to providing the income needed to fund the annual index credits on its FIA products. Athene primarily uses fixed indexed options to economically hedge indexed annuity products that guarantee the return of principal to the policyholder and credit interest based on a percentage of the gain in a specific market index. 93 Net Invested Assets The following summarizes Athene’s net invested assets: Athene’s net invested assets were $217.4 billion and $196.5 billion as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The increase in net invested assets as of December 31, 2023 from December 31, 2022 was primarily driven by growth from net organic inflows of $43.0 billion in excess of net liability outflows of $28.8 billion, inclusive of the impacts related to the sale of 50% of ACRA 2’s economic interests to ADIP II, effective July 1, 2023, as well as an incremental 10% increase in ADIP II ownership effective December 31, 2023. In connection with the initial sale and subsequent increase in ownership, inflows attributable to ACRA 2 during the year were retroactively attributed to ADIP II based on its economic ownership. Additionally, net invested assets increased due to $2.2 billion of inorganic inflows related to a block reinsurance transaction, the reinvestment of earnings and a contribution by AGM of $1.25 billion related to the net proceeds from its Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock offering, partially offset by cash used to pay quarterly dividends. In managing its business, Athene utilizes net invested assets as presented in the above table. Net invested assets do not correspond to Athene’s total investments, including related parties, on the consolidated statements of financial condition, as discussed previously in “Managing Business Performance - Key Segment and Non-U.S. GAAP Performance Measures”. Net invested assets represent Athene’s investments that directly back its net reserve liabilities and surplus assets. Athene believes this view of its portfolio provides a view of the assets for which it has economic exposure. Athene adjusts the presentation for assumed and ceded reinsurance transactions to include or exclude the underlying investments based upon the contractual transfer of economic exposure to such underlying investments. Athene also adjusts for VIEs to show the net investment in the funds, which are included in the alternative investments line above as well as adjusting for the allowance for credit losses. Net invested assets include Athene’s proportionate share of ACRA investments, based on its economic ownership, but exclude the proportionate share of investments associated with the non-controlling interests. Net invested assets is utilized by management to evaluate Athene’s investment portfolio. Net invested assets is used in the computation of the net investment earned rate, which allows Athene to analyze the profitability of its investment portfolio. Net invested assets is also used in Athene’s risk management processes for asset purchases, product design and underwriting, stress scenarios, liquidity and ALM. 94 Principal Investing The following table presents Principal Investing Income, the performance measure of our Principal Investing segment. As described in “Item 2. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General”, earnings from our Principal Investing segment are inherently more volatile in nature than earnings from our Asset Management segment due to the intrinsic cyclical nature of performance fees, one of the key drivers of PII performance. Year Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2022 In this section, references to 2023 refer to the year ended December 31, 2023 and references to 2022 refer to the year ended December 31, 2022. PII was $83 million in 2023, a decrease of $201 million, as compared to $284 million in 2022. This decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in realized investment income of $332 million, partially offset by an increase in realized performance fees. Realized investment income in 2023 was negatively impacted by $42 million of losses related to the liquidations of Apollo Strategic Growth Capital II and Acropolis Infrastructure Acquisition Corp, special purpose acquisition companies sponsored by Apollo. Realized investment income in 2022 was primarily attributable to realized gains earned on the transfer to Athene of certain of Apollo’s general partner fund co-investments that were subsequently transferred to AAA in the second quarter of 2022 and realized gains from the transfer of the Company’s investment in Redding Ridge to AAA. The increase in realized performance fees of $147 million in 2023 was primarily driven by an increase in realized performance fees generated from Fund VIII and Fund IX, as well as the crystallization of annual performance fees generated from Credit Strategies Fund, partially offset by decreases in realized performance fees from HVF I and Fund V. The increase in realized performance fees in 2023 remained prudently delayed amid a challenging exit environment. Principal investing compensation expense of $601 million in 2023 increased $16 million, as compared to $585 million in 2022. The increase in 2023 was primarily due to an increase in profit sharing expense associated with the corresponding increase in realized performance fees and an increase in profit sharing expense subject to clawback, partially offset by a decrease in profit sharing expense attributable to the Company’s incentive pool, a compensation program through which certain employees are allocated discretionary compensation based on realized performance fees in a given year, and is included within principal investing compensation. In any period, the blended profit sharing percentage is impacted by the respective profit sharing ratios of the funds generating performance allocations in the period. The incentive pool is separate from the fund related profit sharing expense and may result in greater variability in compensation and have a variable impact on the blended profit sharing percentage during a particular period. 95 The Historical Investment Performance of Our Funds Below we present information relating to the historical performance of the funds we manage, including certain legacy Apollo funds that do not have a meaningful amount of unrealized investments, and in respect of which the general partner interest has not been contributed to us. When considering the data presented below, you should note that the historical results of funds we manage are not indicative of the future results that you should expect from such funds, from any future funds we may raise or from your investment in our common stock. An investment in our common stock is not an investment in any of the Apollo managed funds, and the assets and revenues of the funds we manage are not directly available to us. The historical and potential future returns of the funds we manage are not directly linked to returns on our common stock. Therefore, you should not conclude that continued positive performance of the funds we manage will necessarily result in positive returns on an investment in our common stock. However, poor performance of the funds that we manage would cause a decline in our revenue from such funds, and would therefore have a negative effect on our performance and in all likelihood the value of our common stock. Moreover, the historical returns of funds we manage should not be considered indicative of the future results you should expect from such funds or from any future funds we may raise. There can be no assurance that any Apollo fund will continue to achieve the same results in the future. Finally, our private equity IRRs have historically varied greatly from fund to fund. For example, Fund VI generated a 12% gross IRR and a 9% net IRR since its inception through December 31, 2023, while Fund V generated a 61% gross IRR and a 44% net IRR since its inception through December 31, 2023. Accordingly, the IRR going forward for any current or future fund may vary considerably from the historical IRR generated by any particular fund, or for our private equity funds as a whole. Future returns will also be affected by the applicable risks, including risks of the industries and businesses in which a particular fund invests. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Asset Management Business—“ Historical performance metrics are unreliable indicators of our current or future results of operations ”. 96 Investment Record The following table summarizes the investment record by strategy of Apollo’s significant commitment-based funds that have a defined maturity date in which investors make a commitment to provide capital at the formation of such funds and deliver capital when called as investment opportunities become available. All amounts are as of December 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted: Equity The following table summarizes the investment record for distressed investments made in our traditional private equity fund portfolios since the Company’s inception. All amounts are as of December 31, 2023: 97 The following tables provide additional detail on the composition of the Fund IX, Fund VIII and Fund VII private equity portfolios based on investment strategy. Amounts for Fund I, II, III, IV, V, VI and X are included in the table above but not presented below as their remaining value is less than $100 million, the fund has been liquidated or the fund commenced investing capital less than 24 months prior to December 31, 2023 and such information was deemed not meaningful. All amounts are as of December 31, 2023. Fund IX 1 Fund VIII 1 Fund VII 1 1 Committed capital less unfunded capital commitments for Fund IX, Fund VIII and Fund VII were $18.2 billion, $17.8 billion and $14.7 billion, respectively, which represents capital commitments from limited partners to invest in such funds less capital that is available for investment or reinvestment subject to the provisions of the applicable governing agreements. 2 The distressed investment strategy includes distressed for control, non-control distressed and other credit. Other Credit is defined as investments in debt securities of issuers other than portfolio companies that are not considered to be distressed. 98 Perpetual Capital The following table summarizes the investment record for the perpetual capital vehicles we manage, excluding Athene and Athora-related assets: 99 Summary of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures The table below sets forth a reconciliation of net income attributable to Apollo Global Management, Inc. common stockholders to Segment Income and Adjusted Net Income: 100 The table below sets forth a reconciliation of common stock outstanding to our Adjusted Net Income Shares Outstanding: The table below sets forth a reconciliation of Athene’s total investments, including related parties, to net invested assets: Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview The Company primarily derives revenues and cash flows from the assets it manages and the retirement savings products it issues, reinsures and acquires. Based on management’s experience, we believe that the Company’s current liquidity position, together with the cash generated from revenues will be sufficient to meet the Company’s anticipated expenses and other working capital needs for at least the next 12 months. For the longer-term liquidity needs of the asset management business, we expect to continue to fund the asset management business’ operations through management fees and performance fees received. The principal sources of liquidity for the retirement services business, in the ordinary course of business, are operating cash flows and holdings of cash, cash equivalents and other readily marketable assets. AGM is a holding company whose primary source of cash flow is distributions from its subsidiaries, which are expected to be sufficient to fund cash flow requirements based on current estimates of future obligations. AGM’s primary liquidity needs include the cash-flow requirements relating to its corporate activities, including its day-to-day operations, common stock and preferred stock dividend payments and strategic transactions, such as acquisitions. At December 31, 2023, the Company had $15.8 billion of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, as well as $4.9 billion of available funds from the 2022 AMH credit facility, AHL credit facility, and AHL liquidity facility. 101 Primary Uses of Cash Over the next 12 months, we expect the Company’s primary liquidity needs will be to: • support the future growth of Apollo’s businesses through strategic corporate investments; • pay the Company’s operating expenses, including, compensation, general, administrative, and other expenses; • make payments to policyholders for surrenders, withdrawals and payout benefits; • make interest and principal payments on funding agreements; • make payments to satisfy pension group annuity obligations and policy acquisition costs; • pay taxes and tax related payments; • pay cash dividends; • make payments related to the AOG Unit Payment; • repurchase common stock; and • make payments under the tax receivable agreement. Over the long term, we believe we will be able to (i) grow Apollo’s Assets Under Management and generate positive investment performance in the funds we manage, which we expect will allow us to grow the Company’s management fees and performance fees and (ii) grow the investment portfolio of retirement services, in each case in amounts sufficient to cover our long-term liquidity requirements, which may include: • supporting the future growth of our businesses; • creating new or enhancing existing products and investment platforms; • making payments to policyholders; • pursuing new strategic corporate investment opportunities; • paying interest and principal on the Company’s financing arrangements; • repurchasing common stock; • making payments under the tax receivable agreement; and • paying cash dividends. Cash Flow Analysis The section below discusses in more detail the Company’s primary sources and uses of cash and the primary drivers of cash flows within the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows: The assets of our consolidated funds and VIEs, on a gross basis, could have a substantial effect on the accompanying statement of cash flows. Because our consolidated funds and VIEs are generally treated as investment companies for accounting purposes, their investing cash flow amounts are included in our cash flows from operating activities. The table below summarizes our consolidated statements of cash flow by activity attributable to the Company and to our consolidated funds and VIEs. 102 Operating Activities The Company’s operating activities support its Asset Management, Retirement Services and Principal Investing activities. The primary sources of cash within operating activities include: (a) management fees, (b) advisory and transaction fees, (c) realized performance revenues, (d) realized principal investment income, (e) investment sales from our consolidated funds and VIEs, (f) net investment income, (g) annuity considerations and (h) insurance premiums. The primary uses of cash within operating activities include: (a) compensation and non-compensation related expenses, (b) interest and taxes, (c) investment purchases from our consolidated funds and VIEs, (d) benefit payments and (e) other operating expenses. • During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash provided by operating activities reflects cash inflows of management fees, advisory and transaction fees, realized performance revenues, realized principal investment income, cash received from pension group annuity premiums, net of outflows, and net investment income, partially offset by cash paid for policy acquisition and other operating expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities includes net cash used in our consolidated funds and VIEs, which primarily includes net proceeds from the sale of VIEs’ investments, offset by purchases of VIEs’ investments. • During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash provided by operating activities primarily includes net cash used in our consolidated funds and VIEs for purchases of investments and proceeds from the sale of VIEs’ investments. Net cash provided by operating activities reflects cash inflows of management fees, advisory and transaction fees, realized performance revenues, and realized principal investment income, as well as cash received from pension group annuity transactions net of outflows. • During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by operating activities primarily includes cash inflows from the receipt of management fees, advisory and transaction fees, realized performance revenues, and realized principal investment income, offset by cash outflows for compensation, general, administrative, other expenses and activities of our consolidated funds and VIEs. Net cash used in operating activities also reflects operating activities of our consolidated funds and VIEs, which includes cash outflows for purchases of investments, offset by cash inflows from consolidated funds. Investing Activities The Company’s investing activities support the growth of its business. The primary sources of cash within investing activities include: (a) distributions from investments and (b) sales, maturities and repayments of investments. The primary uses of cash within investing activities include: (a) capital expenditures, (b) purchases and acquisitions of new investments, including purchases of U.S. Treasury securities and (c) equity method investments in the funds we manage. • During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities primarily reflects the purchase of investments due to the deployment of significant cash inflows from Athene’s organic growth, partially offset by the sales, maturities and repayments of investments. • During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities primarily reflects the purchase of investments due to the deployment of significant cash inflows from Athene’s organic growth, partially offset by Athene cash acquired as a result of the Mergers and the sale, repayment and maturity of investments. 103 • During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities primarily reflects purchases of investments in Motive Partners and Challenger Ltd., net purchases of U.S. Treasury securities, and net contributions to equity method investments. Net cash used in investing activities also reflects the investing activities of our consolidated funds and VIEs, which primarily includes net proceeds from maturities of U.S. Treasury securities. Financing Activities The Company’s financing activities reflect its capital market transactions and transactions with equity holders. The primary sources of cash within financing activities includes: (a) proceeds from debt and preferred equity issuances, (b) inflows on Athene’s investment-type policies and contracts, (c) changes of cash collateral posted for derivative transactions, (d) capital contributions, and (e) proceeds from other borrowing activities. The primary uses of cash within financing activities include: (a) dividends, (b) payments under the tax receivable agreement, (c) share repurchases, (d) cash paid to settle tax withholding obligations in connection with net share settlements of equity-based awards, (e) repayments of debt, (f) withdrawals on Athene’s investment-type policies and contracts and (g) changes of cash collateral posted for derivative transactions. • During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash provided by financing activities primarily reflects cash received from the strong organic inflows from retail, flow reinsurance and funding agreements, net of outflows, a favorable change in cash collateral posted for derivative transactions related to the favorable equity market performance in 2023, net capital contributions from non-controlling interests, issuances of the 2053 Subordinated Notes, 2033 Senior Notes and Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, and the issuance of debt by our subsidiary, partially offset by the redemption of the AAM Preferred Stock, the payment of stock dividends, the repayment of short-term repurchase obligations and distribution to redeemable non-controlling interest. Cash provided by financing activities of our consolidated funds and VIEs primarily includes proceeds from the issuance of debt, offset by payments for borrowings under repurchase agreements. • During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash provided by financing activities primarily reflects the strong organic inflows from retail and funding agreements, net of withdrawals, net capital contributions from non-controlling interests, and the issuance of debt and preferred stock by our subsidiary, partially offset by the payment of stock dividends. Cash provided by financing activities of our consolidated funds and VIEs primarily includes proceeds from the issuance of debt, including repurchase agreements. • During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities primarily reflects the financing activities of our consolidated funds and VIEs, which primarily includes cash inflows from the issuance of debt, net contributions from non-controlling interest in consolidated entities, proceeds from issuance of securities of SPACs sponsored by Apollo, partially offset by payment of underwriting discounts and cash outflows for the principal repayment of debt. Net cash used in financing activities also reflects dividends to common stockholders, distributions to non-controlling interest holders, and repurchases of common stock. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies For a summary and a description of the nature of the Company’s commitments, contingencies and contractual obligations, see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements and “—Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies.” The Company’s commitments are primarily fulfilled through cash flows from operations and financing activities. Consolidated Funds and VIEs The Company manages its liquidity needs by evaluating unconsolidated cash flows; however, the Company’s financial statements reflect the financial position of Apollo as well as Apollo’s consolidated funds and VIEs (including SPACs). The primary sources and uses of cash at Apollo’s consolidated funds and VIEs include: (a) raising capital from their investors, which have been reflected historically as non-controlling interests of the consolidated subsidiaries in our financial statements, (b) using capital to make investments, (c) generating cash flows from operations through distributions, interest and the realization of investments, (d) distributing cash flow to investors, and (e) issuing debt to finance investments (CLOs). Dividends and Distributions For information regarding the quarterly dividends and distributions that were made to common stockholders and non-controlling interest holders in the Apollo Operating Group and participating securities, see note 17 to the consolidated financial 104 statements. Although the Company currently expects to pay dividends, we may not pay dividends if, among other things, we do not have the cash necessary to pay the dividends. To the extent we do not have cash on hand sufficient to pay dividends, we may have to borrow funds to pay dividends, or we may determine not to pay dividends. The declaration, payment and determination of the amount of our dividends are at the sole discretion of the AGM board of directors. Because AGM is a holding company, the primary source of funds for AGM’s dividends is distributions from its operating subsidiaries, AAM and AHL, which are expected to be adequate to fund AGM’s dividends and other cash flow requirements based on current estimates of future obligations. The ability of these operating subsidiaries to make distributions to AGM will depend on satisfying applicable law with respect to such distributions, including surplus and minimum solvency requirements among others, as well as making prior distributions on AHL outstanding preferred stock. Moreover, the ability of AAM and AHL to receive distributions from their own respective subsidiaries will continue to depend on applicable law with respect to such distributions. On February 8, 2024, AGM declared a cash dividend of $0.43 per share of its common stock, which will be paid on February 29, 2024 to holders of record at the close of business on February 20, 2024. On February 8, 2024, the Company also declared and set aside a cash dividend of $0.8438 per share of its Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which will be paid on April 30, 2024 to holders of record at the close of business on April 15, 2024. Repurchase of Securities Share Repurchase Program For information regarding the Company’s share repurchase program, see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Repurchase of Other Securities We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our other outstanding debt or equity securities through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other securities, purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Any such repurchases will be dependent upon several factors, including our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, general market conditions and applicable regulatory, legal and accounting factors. Whether or not we repurchase any of our other securities and the size and timing of any such repurchases will be determined at our discretion. Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock On August 11, 2023, the Company issued 28,750,000 shares, or $1.4 billion aggregate liquidation preference, of its 6.75% Series A Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. See note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Asset Management Liquidity Our asset management business requires limited capital resources to support the working capital or operating needs of the business. For the asset management business’ longer-term liquidity needs, we expect to continue to fund the asset management business’ operations through management fees and performance fees received. Liquidity needs are also met (to a limited extent) through proceeds from borrowings and equity issuances as described in notes 15 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements, respectively. From time to time, if the Company determines that market conditions are favorable after taking into account our liquidity requirements, we may seek to raise proceeds through the issuance of additional debt or equity instruments. AGM has a registration statement on Form S-3 to provide it with access to the capital markets, subject to market conditions and other factors. At December 31, 2023, the asset management business had $2.7 billion of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, as well as $1.0 billion of available funds from the 2022 AMH credit facility. 105 Future Debt Obligations The asset management business had short-term and long-term debt of $0.5 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2023, which includes notes with maturities in 2024, 2026, 2029, 2030, 2033, 2048, 2050 and 2053. See note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the asset management business’ debt arrangements. Future Cash Flows Our ability to execute our business strategy, particularly our ability to increase our AUM, depends on our ability to establish new funds and to raise additional investor capital within such funds. Our liquidity will depend on a number of factors, such as our ability to project our financial performance, which is highly dependent on the funds we manage and our ability to manage our projected costs, fund performance, access to credit facilities, compliance with existing credit agreements, as well as industry and market trends. Also during economic downturns the funds we manage might experience cash flow issues or liquidate entirely. In these situations we might be asked to reduce or eliminate the management fee and performance fees we charge, which could adversely impact our cash flow in the future. An increase in the fair value of the investments of the funds we manage, by contrast, could favorably impact our liquidity through higher management fees where the management fees are calculated based on the net asset value, gross assets or adjusted assets. Additionally, higher performance fees not yet realized would generally result when investments appreciate over their cost basis which would not have an impact on the asset management business’ cash flow until realized. Consideration of Financing Arrangements As noted above, in limited circumstances, the asset management business may issue debt or equity to supplement its liquidity. The decision to enter into a particular financing arrangement is made after careful consideration of various factors, including the asset management business’ cash flows from operations, future cash needs, current sources of liquidity, demand for the asset management business’ debt or equity, and prevailing interest rates. Revolver Facility Under the 2022 AMH credit facility, AMH may borrow in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.0 billion and may incur incremental facilities in an aggregate amount not to exceed $250 million plus additional amounts so long as AMH is in compliance with a net leverage ratio not to exceed 4.00 to 1.00. Borrowings under the 2022 AMH credit facility may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including without limitation, permitted acquisitions. The 2022 AMH credit facility has a final maturity date of October 12, 2027. Tax Receivable Agreement The tax receivable agreement provides for the payment to the Former Managing Partners and Contributing Partners of 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes that AGM and its subsidiaries realize subject to the agreement. For more information regarding the tax receivable agreement, see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements. AOG Unit Payment On December 31, 2021, holders of AOG Units (other than Athene and Apollo) sold and transferred a portion of such AOG Units to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, in exchange for an amount equal to $3.66 multiplied by the total number of AOG Units held by such holders immediately prior to such transaction (such payment, the “AOG Unit Payment”). The remainder of the AOG Units held by such holders were exchanged for shares of AGM common stock concurrently with the consummation of the Mergers on January 1, 2022. As of December 31, 2023, the outstanding AOG Unit Payment amount was $175 million, payable in equal quarterly installments through December 31, 2024. See note 19 for more information. 106 Athora Athora is a strategic liabilities platform that acquires and reinsures traditional closed life insurance policies and provides capital and reinsurance solutions to insurers in Europe. In 2017, an AAM subsidiary made a €125 million commitment to Athora, which was fully drawn as of April 2020. An AAM subsidiary committed an incremental €58 million in 2020 to purchase new equity interests. Additionally, in 2021, an AAM subsidiary acquired approximately €21.9 million of new equity interests in Athora. In December 2021, an AAM subsidiary committed an additional €250 million to purchase new equity interests to support Athora’s ongoing growth initiatives, of which €180 million was drawn as of December 31, 2023. An AAM subsidiary and Athene are minority investors in Athora with a long-term strategic relationship. Through its share ownership, the AAM subsidiary has approximately 19.9% of the total voting power in Athora, and Athene holds shares in Athora representing 10% of the total voting power in Athora. In addition, Athora shares held by funds and other accounts managed by Apollo represent, in the aggregate, approximately 15.1% of the total voting power in Athora. Fund Escrow As of December 31, 2023, the remaining investments and escrow cash of Fund VIII and Fund VII were valued at 105% and 113% of the fund’s unreturned capital, respectively, which were below the required escrow ratio of 115%. As a result, the funds are required to place in escrow current and future performance fee distributions to the general partner until the specified return ratio of 115% is met (at the time of a future distribution) or upon liquidation. Realized performance fees currently distributed to the general partner are limited to potential tax distributions and interest on escrow balances per each fund’s respective partnership agreement. Clawback Performance fees from certain of the funds we manage are subject to contingent repayment by the general partner in the event of future losses to the extent that the cumulative performance fees distributed from inception to date exceeds the amount computed as due to the general partner at the final distribution. See “—Overview of Results of Operations—Performance Fees” for the maximum performance fees subject to potential reversal by each fund. Indemnification Liability The asset management business recorded an indemnification liability in the event that the Former Managing Partners, Contributing Partners and certain investment professionals are required to pay amounts in connection with a general partner obligation to return previously distributed performance fees. See note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the asset management business’ indemnification liability. Retirement Services Liquidity There are two forms of liquidity relevant to our retirement services business: funding liquidity and balance sheet liquidity. Funding liquidity relates to the ability to fund operations. Balance sheet liquidity relates to the ability to liquidate or rebalance Athene’s balance sheet without incurring significant costs from fees, bid-offer spreads, or market impact. Athene manages its liquidity position by matching projected cash demands with adequate sources of cash and other liquid assets. The principal sources of liquidity for our retirement services business, in the ordinary course of business, are operating cash flows and holdings of cash, cash equivalents and other readily marketable assets. Athene’s investment portfolio is structured to ensure a strong liquidity position over time to permit timely payment of policy and contract benefits without requiring asset sales at inopportune times or at depressed prices. In general, liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, highly rated bonds, short-term investments, unaffiliated preferred stock and public common stock, all of which generally have liquid markets with a large number of buyers. Assets included in modified coinsurance and funds withheld portfolios are available to fund the benefits for the associated obligations but are restricted from other uses. Although the investment portfolio of our retirement services business does contain assets that are generally considered illiquid for liquidity monitoring purposes (primarily mortgage loans, policy loans, real estate, investment funds and affiliated common stock), there is some ability to raise cash from these assets if needed. On June 30, 2023, Athene entered into a new AHL credit facility and AHL liquidity facility, which replaced its previous facilities. Athene has access to liquidity through the AHL credit 107 facility with a borrowing capacity of $1.25 billion, subject to being increased up to $1.75 billion in total on the terms described in the AHL credit facility, the AHL liquidity facility with a borrowing capacity of $2.6 billion, subject to being increased up to $3.1 billion in total on the terms described in the AHL liquidity facility, and $2.0 billion of committed repurchase facilities. Both the AHL credit facility and AHL liquidity facility were undrawn as of December 31, 2023. Athene has a registration statement on Form S-3 to provide it with access to the capital markets, subject to market conditions and other factors. Athene is also the counterparty to repurchase agreements with several different financial institutions, pursuant to which it may obtain short-term liquidity, to the extent available. In addition, through Athene’s membership in the FHLB, it is eligible to borrow under variable rate short-term federal funds arrangements to provide additional liquidity. Athene proactively manages its liquidity position to meet cash needs while minimizing adverse impacts on investment returns. Athene analyzes its cash-flow liquidity over the upcoming 12 months by modeling potential demands on liquidity under a variety of scenarios, taking into account the provisions of its policies and contracts in force, its cash flow position, and the volume of cash and readily marketable securities in its portfolio. Liquidity risk is monitored, managed and mitigated through a number of stress tests and analyses to assess Athene’s ability to meet its cash flow requirements, as well as the ability of its reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries to meet their collateral obligations, under various stress scenarios. Athene further seeks to mitigate liquidity risk by maintaining access to alternative, external sources of liquidity. Insurance Subsidiaries’ Operating Liquidity The primary cash flow sources for Athene’s insurance subsidiaries include retirement services product inflows (premiums and deposits), investment income, principal repayments on its investments, net transfers from separate accounts and financial product inflows. Uses of cash include investment purchases, payments to policyholders for surrenders, withdrawals and payout benefits, interest and principal payments on funding agreements, payments to satisfy pension group annuity obligations, policy acquisition costs and general operating costs, and payment of cash dividends. Athene’s policyholder obligations are generally long-term in nature. However, policyholders may elect to withdraw some, or all, of their account value in amounts that exceed Athene’s estimates and assumptions over the life of an annuity contract. Athene includes provisions within its annuity policies, such as surrender charges and MVAs, which are intended to protect it from early withdrawals. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, approximately 79% and 76%, respectively, of Athene’s deferred annuity liabilities were subject to penalty upon surrender. In addition, as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, approximately 64% and 60%, respectively, of policies contained MVAs that may also have the effect of limiting early withdrawals if interest rates increase, but may encourage early withdrawals by effectively subsidizing a portion of surrender charges when interest rates decrease. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 28% of Athene’s net reserve liabilities were generally non-surrenderable, including buy-out pension group annuities other than those that can be withdrawn as lump sums, funding agreements and payout annuities, while 56% were subject to penalty upon surrender. Membership in Federal Home Loan Bank Through its membership in the FHLB, Athene is eligible to borrow under variable rate short-term federal funds arrangements to provide additional liquidity. The borrowings must be secured by eligible collateral such as mortgage loans, eligible CMBS or RMBS, government or agency securities and guaranteed loans. As of each of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, Athene had no outstanding borrowings under these arrangements. Athene has issued funding agreements to the FHLB. These funding agreements were issued in an investment spread strategy, consistent with other investment spread operations. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, Athene had funding agreements outstanding with the FHLB in the aggregate principal amount of $6.5 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively. The maximum FHLB indebtedness by a member is determined by the amount of collateral pledged and cannot exceed a specified percentage of the member’s total statutory assets dependent on the internal credit rating assigned to the member by the FHLB. As of December 31, 2023, Athene’s total maximum borrowing capacity under the FHLB facilities was limited to $43.1 billion. However, Athene’s ability to borrow under the facilities is constrained by the availability of assets that qualify as eligible collateral under the facilities and certain other limitations. Considering these limitations, as of December 31, 2023 Athene had the ability to draw up to an estimated $10.2 billion, inclusive of borrowings then outstanding. This estimate is based on Athene’s internal analysis and assumptions and may not accurately measure collateral which is ultimately acceptable to the FHLB. 108 Securities Repurchase Agreements Athene engages in repurchase transactions whereby it sells fixed income securities to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms or commercial banks, with a concurrent agreement to repurchase such securities at a determined future date. Athene requires that, at all times during the term of the repurchase agreements, it maintains sufficient cash or other liquid assets sufficient to allow it to fund substantially all of the repurchase price. Proceeds received from the sale of securities pursuant to these arrangements are generally invested in short-term investments or maintained in cash, with the offsetting obligation to repurchase the security included within payables for collateral on derivatives and securities to repurchase on the consolidated statements of financial condition. As per the terms of the repurchase agreements, Athene monitors the market value of the securities sold and may be required to deliver additional collateral (which may be in the form of cash or additional securities) to the extent that the value of the securities sold decreases prior to the repurchase date. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the payables for repurchase agreements were $3.9 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively, while the fair value of securities and collateral held by counterparties backing the repurchase agreements was $4.1 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, payables for repurchase agreements were comprised of $686 million of short-term and $3.2 billion of long-term repurchase agreements. As of December 31, 2022, payables for repurchase agreements were comprised of $1.9 billion of short-term and $2.9 billion of long-term repurchase agreements. Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries AHL is a holding company whose primary liquidity needs include the cash-flow requirements relating to its corporate activities, including its day-to-day operations, debt servicing, preferred and common stock dividend payments and strategic transactions, such as acquisitions. The primary source of AHL’s cash flow is dividends from its subsidiaries, which are expected to be adequate to fund cash flow requirements based on current estimates of future obligations. The ability of AHL’s insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends is limited by applicable laws and regulations of the jurisdictions where the subsidiaries are domiciled, as well as agreements entered into with regulators. These laws and regulations require, among other things, the insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends these subsidiaries can pay. Subject to these limitations and prior notification to the appropriate regulatory agency, Athene’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are permitted to pay ordinary dividends based on calculations specified under insurance laws of the relevant state of domicile. Any distributions above the amount permitted by statute in any twelve-month period are considered to be extraordinary dividends, and require the approval of the appropriate regulator prior to payment. AHL does not currently plan on having the U.S. subsidiaries pay any dividends to their parents. Dividends from AHL’s subsidiaries are projected to be the primary source of AHL’s liquidity. Under the Bermuda Insurance Act, each of Athene’s Bermuda insurance subsidiaries is prohibited from paying a dividend in an amount exceeding 25% of the prior year’s statutory capital and surplus, unless at least two members of the board of directors of the Bermuda insurance subsidiary and its principal representative in Bermuda sign and submit to the BMA an affidavit attesting that a dividend in excess of this amount would not cause the Bermuda insurance subsidiary to fail to meet its relevant margins. In certain instances, the Bermuda insurance subsidiary would also be required to provide prior notice to the BMA in advance of the payment of dividends. In the event that such an affidavit is submitted to the BMA in accordance with the Bermuda Insurance Act, and further subject to the Bermuda insurance subsidiary meeting its relevant margins, the Bermuda insurance subsidiary is permitted to distribute up to the sum of 100% of statutory surplus and an amount less than 15% of its total statutory capital. Distributions in excess of this amount require the approval of the BMA. The maximum distribution permitted by law or contract is not necessarily indicative of the insurance subsidiaries’ actual ability to pay such distributions, which may be further restricted by business and other considerations, such as the impact of such distributions on surplus, which could affect Athene’s ratings or competitive position and the amount of premiums that can be written. Specifically, the level of capital needed to maintain desired financial strength ratings from rating agencies, including S&P, A.M. Best, Fitch and Moody’s, is of particular concern when determining the amount of capital available for distributions. AHL believes its insurance subsidiaries have sufficient statutory capital and surplus, combined with additional capital available to be provided by AHL, to meet their financial strength ratings objectives. Finally, state insurance laws and regulations require that the statutory surplus of Athene’s insurance subsidiaries following any dividend or distribution must be reasonable in relation to their outstanding liabilities and adequate for the insurance subsidiaries’ financial needs. 109 Other Sources of Funding Athene may seek to secure additional funding at the AHL level by means other than dividends from subsidiaries, such as by drawing on its undrawn $1.25 billion AHL credit facility, drawing on its undrawn $2.6 billion AHL liquidity facility or by pursuing future issuances of debt or preferred stock to third-party investors. The AHL credit facility contains various standard covenants with which Athene must comply, including maintaining a consolidated debt-to-capitalization ratio of not greater than 35%, maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth of no less than $14.8 billion and restrictions on the ability to incur liens, with certain exceptions. Rates and terms are as defined in the AHL credit facility. The AHL liquidity facility also contains various standard covenants with which Athene must comply, including maintaining an ALRe minimum consolidated net worth of no less than $8.8 billion and restrictions on the ability to incur liens, with certain exceptions. Rates and terms are as defined in the AHL liquidity facility. Future Debt Obligations Athene had long-term debt of $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2023, which includes notes with maturities in 2028, 2030, 2031, 2033, 2034, 2051 and 2052. See note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding Athene’s debt arrangements. Capital Athene believes it has a strong capital position and is well positioned to meet policyholder and other obligations. Athene measures capital sufficiency using an internal capital model which reflects management’s view on the various risks inherent to its business, the amount of capital required to support its core operating strategies and the amount of capital necessary to maintain its current ratings in a recessionary environment. The amount of capital required to support Athene’s core operating strategies is determined based upon internal modeling and analysis of economic risk, as well as inputs from rating agency capital models and consideration of both NAIC RBC and Bermuda capital requirements. Capital in excess of this required amount is considered excess equity capital, which is available to deploy. As of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, Athene’s U.S. RBC ratio was 392% and 387%, respectively, its Bermuda RBC ratio was 400% and 407%, respectively, and its consolidated RBC ratio was 412% and 416%, respectively. The formulas for determining the amount of RBC specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk. The RBC of Athene’s Bermuda insurance companies presented herein exclude the impact of any deferred taxes that may be recorded on a statutory basis as a result of the enactment of the Bermuda CIT. Athene is currently assessing deferred taxes that may be recorded on a statutory basis as a result of the Bermuda CIT, which could have a positive impact on the statutory capital and surplus of its Bermuda insurance companies. ACRA ACRA 1 provided Athene with access to on-demand capital to support its growth strategies and capital deployment opportunities. ACRA 1 provided a capital source to fund both Athene’s inorganic and organic channels. Similar to ACRA 1, ACRA 2 was funded in December 2022 as another long-duration, on-demand capital vehicle. Effective July 1, 2023, ALRe sold 50% of its non-voting, economic interests in ACRA 2 to ADIP II for $640 million, while maintaining all of ACRA 2’s voting interests. Effective December 31, 2023, ACRA 2 repurchased a portion of its shares held by ALRe, which increased ADIP II’s ownership of economic interests in ACRA 2 to 60%, with ALRe owning the remaining 40% of economic interests. ACRA 2 participates in certain transactions by drawing a portion of the required capital for such transactions from third-party investors equal to ADIP II’s proportionate economic interest in ACRA 2. These strategic capital solutions allow Athene the flexibility to simultaneously deploy capital across multiple accretive avenues, while maintaining a strong financial position. Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires the use of estimates and assumptions that could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Actual results 110 could differ from these estimates. A summary of our significant accounting policies is presented in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of our accounting policies that are affected most by judgments, estimates and assumptions. Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies - Overall Consolidation We consolidate entities on a variable interest or voting interest model or, if applicable, apply specialized accounting guidance for investment companies. Significant judgment may be required for the application of the VIE guidance and to determine whether entities qualify as investment companies under U.S. GAAP. The assessment of whether an entity is a variable interest entity and the determination of whether Apollo should consolidate requires judgment. Those judgments include, but are not limited to: (i) determining whether the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support, (ii) evaluating whether the holders of equity investment at risk, as a group, can make decisions that have a significant effect on the success of the entity, (iii) determining whether the equity investors have proportionate voting rights to their obligations to absorb losses or rights to receive the expected residual returns from an entity and (iv) evaluating the nature of the relationship and activities of those related parties with shared power or under common control for purposes of determining which party within the related-party group is most closely associated with the VIE. Judgments are also made in determining whether a member in the equity group has a controlling financial interest, including power to direct activities that most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance and rights to receive benefits or obligations to absorb losses that could be potentially significant to the VIE. This analysis considers all relevant economic interests, including proportionate interests held through related parties. Additionally, evaluating an entity to determine whether it meets the characteristics of an investment company under U.S. GAAP is qualitative in nature and may involve significant judgment. The Company has retained this specialized accounting for investment companies in consolidation. Equity-Based Compensation Equity-based compensation is generally measured based on the grant date fair value of the award. Certain RSUs granted by the Company vest subject to continued employment and the Company’s receipt of performance fees, within prescribed periods, sufficient to cover the associated equity-based compensation expense. Equity-based compensation expense for such awards, if and when granted, will be recognized on an accelerated recognition method over the requisite service period to the extent the performance fee metrics are met or deemed probable. The addition of these performance measures helps to promote the interests of our shareholders and fund investors by making RSU vesting contingent on the realization and distribution of profits on our funds. For more information regarding Apollo’s equity-based compensation awards, see note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. The Company’s assumptions made to determine the fair value on grant date are embodied in the calculations of compensation expense. A significant part of our compensation expense is derived from amortization of RSUs. The fair value of all RSU grants after March 29, 2011 is based on the grant date fair value, which considers the public share price of AGM. The Company has three types of RSU grants, which we refer to as Plan Grants, Bonus Grants, and Performance Grants. Plan Grants may or may not provide the right to receive dividend equivalents until the RSUs vest and, for grants made after 2011, the underlying shares are generally issued by March 15th after the year in which they vest. For Plan Grants, the grant date fair value is based on the public share price of the Company, and is discounted for transfer restrictions and lack of dividends until vested if applicable. Bonus Grants provide the right to receive dividend equivalents on both vested and unvested RSUs and Performance Grants provide the right to receive dividend equivalents on vested RSUs and may also provide the right to receive dividend equivalents on unvested RSUs. Both Bonus Grants and Performance Grants are generally issued by March 15th of the year following the year in which they vest. For Bonus Grants and Performance Grants, the grant date fair value for the periods presented is based on the public share price of AGM, and is discounted for transfer restrictions. 111 We utilized the present value of a growing annuity formula to calculate a discount for the lack of pre-vesting dividends on certain Plan Grant and Performance Grant RSUs. The weighted average for the inputs utilized for the shares granted are presented in the table below for Plan Grants and Performance Grants: We utilize the Finnerty Model to calculate a marketability discount on the Plan Grant, Bonus Grant and Performance Grant RSUs to account for the lag between vesting and issuance. The Finnerty Model provides for a valuation discount reflecting the holding period restriction embedded in a restricted security preventing its sale over a certain period of time. The Finnerty Model proposes to estimate a discount for lack of marketability such as transfer restrictions by using an option pricing theory. This model has gained recognition through its ability to address the magnitude of the discount by considering the volatility of a company’s stock price and the length of restriction. The concept underpinning the Finnerty Model is that a restricted security cannot be sold over a certain period of time. Further simplified, a restricted share of equity in a company can be viewed as having forfeited a put on the average price of the marketable equity over the restriction period (also known as an “Asian Put Option”). If we price an Asian Put Option and compare this value to that of the assumed fully marketable underlying security, we can effectively estimate the marketability discount. The inputs utilized in the Finnerty Model are (i) length of holding period, (ii) volatility and (iii) dividend yield. The weighted average for the inputs utilized for the shares granted are presented in the table below for Plan Grants, Bonus Grants and Performance Grants: 112 Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in determining tax expense and in evaluating certain and uncertain tax positions. The Company recognizes the tax benefit of uncertain tax positions when the position is “more likely than not” to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefit is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If a tax position is not considered more likely than not to be sustained, then no benefits of the position are recognized. The Company’s tax positions are reviewed and evaluated quarterly to determine whether the Company has uncertain tax positions that require financial statement recognition. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences of differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases using currently enacted tax rates. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period during which the change is enacted. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies - Asset Management Investments, at Fair Value On a quarterly basis, Apollo utilizes valuation committees consisting of members from senior management, to review and approve the valuation results related to the investments of the funds it manages. The Company also retains external valuation firms to provide third-party valuation consulting services to Apollo, which consist of certain limited procedures that management identifies and requests them to perform. The limited procedures provided by the external valuation firms assist management with validating their valuation results or determining fair value. The Company performs various back-testing procedures to validate their valuation approaches, including comparisons between expected and observed outcomes, forecast evaluations and variance analyses. However, because of the inherent uncertainty of valuation, the estimated values may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had a ready market for the investments existed, and the differences could be material. The fair values of the investments in the funds we manage can be impacted by changes to the assumptions used in the underlying valuation models. For further discussion on the impact of changes to valuation assumptions see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Sensitivity” in this report. There have been no material changes to the valuation approaches utilized during the periods that our financial results are presented in this report. Fair Value of Financial Instruments Except for the Company’s debt obligations (each as defined in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements), Apollo’s financial instruments are recorded at fair value or at amounts whose carrying values approximate fair value. See “—Investments, at Fair Value” above. While Apollo’s valuations of portfolio investments are based on assumptions that Apollo believes are reasonable under the circumstances, the actual realized gains or losses will depend on, among other factors, future operating results, the value of the assets and market conditions at the time of disposition, any related transaction costs and the timing and manner of sale, all of which may ultimately differ significantly from the assumptions on which the valuations were based. Financial instruments’ carrying values generally approximate fair value because of the short-term nature of those instruments or variable interest rates related to the borrowings. Revenue Recognition Performance Fees Apollo earns performance fees from funds we manage as a result of such funds achieving specified performance criteria. Such performance fees generally are earned based upon a fixed percentage of realized and unrealized gains of various funds after meeting any applicable hurdle rate or threshold minimum. Performance allocations are performance fees that are generally structured from a legal standpoint as an allocation of capital to the Company. Performance allocations from certain of the funds that we manage are subject to contingent repayment and are generally paid to us as particular investments made by the funds are realized. If, however, upon liquidation of a fund, the 113 aggregate amount paid to us as performance fees exceeds the amount actually due to us based upon the aggregate performance of the fund, the excess (in certain cases net of taxes) is required to be returned by us to that fund. We account for performance allocations as an equity method investment, and accordingly, we accrue performance allocations quarterly based on fair value of the underlying investments and separately assess if contingent repayment is necessary. The determination of performance allocations and contingent repayment considers both the terms of the respective partnership agreements and the current fair value of the underlying investments within the funds. Estimates and assumptions are made when determining the fair value of the underlying investments within the funds and could vary depending on the valuation methodology that is used. See “Investments, at Fair Value” below for further discussion related to significant estimates and assumptions used for determining fair value of the underlying investments in our yield, hybrid and equity funds. Incentive fees are performance fees structured as a contractual fee arrangement rather than a capital allocation. Incentive fees are generally received from the management of CLOs, managed accounts and MFIC. For a majority of our incentive fees, once the quarterly or annual incentive fees have been determined, there is no look-back to prior periods for a potential contingent repayment, however, certain other incentive fees can be subject to contingent repayment at the end of the life of the entity. In accordance with the revenue recognition standard, certain incentive fees are considered a form of variable consideration and therefore are deferred until fees are probable to not be significantly reversed. There is significant judgment involved in determining if the incentive fees are probable to not be significantly reversed, but generally the Company will defer the revenue until the fees are crystallized or are no longer subject to clawback or reversal. Management Fees Management fees related to the yield funds we manage can be based on net asset value, gross assets, adjusted cost of all unrealized portfolio investments, capital commitments, adjusted assets, capital contributions, or stockholders’ equity, all as defined in the respective partnership agreements. The management fee calculations for the yield funds we manage that consider net asset value, gross assets, adjusted cost of all unrealized portfolio investments and adjusted assets are normally based on the terms of the respective partnership agreements and the current fair value of the underlying investments within the funds. Estimates and assumptions are made when determining the fair value of the underlying investments within the funds and could vary depending on the valuation methodology that is used. The management fees related to equity funds we manage, by contrast, are generally based on a fixed percentage of the committed capital or invested capital. The corresponding fee calculations that consider committed capital or invested capital are both objective in nature and therefore do not require the use of significant estimates or assumptions. The management fees related to the hybrid funds we manage are generally based on net asset value, gross assets, or committed or invested capital. See “Investments, at Fair Value” below for further discussion related to significant estimates and assumptions used for determining fair value of the underlying investments in the yield, hybrid and equity funds. Profit Sharing Expense Profit sharing expense is primarily a result of agreements with employees to compensate them based on the ownership interest they have in the general partners of the Apollo funds. Therefore, changes in the fair value of the underlying investments in the funds we manage and advise affect profit sharing expense. Employees are generally allocated approximately 30% to 61%, of the total performance fees which is driven primarily by changes in fair value of the underlying fund’s investments and is treated as compensation expense. Additionally, profit sharing expenses paid may be subject to clawback from employees and former employees to the extent not indemnified. When applicable, the accrual for potential clawback of previously distributed profit sharing amounts, which is a component of due from related parties on the consolidated statements of financial condition, represents all amounts previously distributed to employees and former employees that would need to be returned to the general partner if the Apollo funds were to be liquidated based on the current fair value of the underlying funds’ investments as of the reporting date. The actual general partner receivable, however, would not become realized until the end of a fund’s life. Several of the Company’s employee remuneration programs are dependent upon performance fee realizations, including the incentive pool, and dedicated performance fee rights and certain RSU awards for which vesting is contingent, in part, on the realization of performance fees in a specified period. The Company established these programs to attract and retain, and provide incentive to, partners and employees of the Company and to more closely align the overall compensation of partners and employees with the overall realized performance of the Company. Dedicated performance fee rights entitle their holders to payments arising from performance fee realizations. The incentive pool enables certain employees to earn discretionary compensation based on realized performance fees in a given year, which amounts are reflected in profit sharing expense in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Amounts earned by participants as a result of their performance fee rights (whether dedicated or incentive pool) will vary year-to-year depending on the overall realized performance of the Company 114 (and, in the case of the incentive pool, on their individual performance). There is no assurance that the Company will continue to compensate individuals through the same types of arrangements in the future and there may be periods when the Company determines that allocations of realized performance fees are not sufficient to compensate individuals, which may result in an increase in salary, bonus and benefits, the modification of existing programs or the use of new remuneration programs. Reductions in performance fee revenues could also make it harder to retain employees and cause employees to seek other employment opportunities. Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies - Retirement Services Investments The Company is responsible for the fair value measurement of investments presented in the consolidated financial statements. The Company performs regular analysis and review of its valuation techniques, assumptions and inputs used in determining fair value to evaluate if the valuation approaches are appropriate and consistently applied, and the various assumptions are reasonable. The Company also performs quantitative and qualitative analysis and review of the information and prices received from commercial pricing services and broker-dealers, to verify it represents a reasonable estimate of the fair value of each investment. In addition, the Company uses both internally-developed and commercially-available cash flow models to analyze the reasonableness of fair values using credit spreads and other market assumptions, where appropriate. For investment funds, the Company typically recognizes its investment, including those for which it has elected the fair value option, based on net asset value information provided by the general partner or related asset manager. For a discussion of investment funds for which it has elected the fair value option, see note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. 115 Valuation of Fixed Maturity Securities, Equity Securities and Mortgage Loans The following table presents the fair value of fixed maturity securities, equity securities and mortgage loans, including those with related parties and those held by consolidated VIEs, by pricing source and fair value hierarchy: The Company measures the fair value of its securities based on assumptions used by market participants in pricing the assets, which may include inherent risk, restrictions on the sale or use of an asset, or nonperformance risk. The estimate of fair value is the price that would be received to sell a security in an orderly transaction between market participants in the principal market, or the most advantageous market in the absence of a principal market, for that security. Market participants are assumed to be independent, knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange while not under duress. The valuation of securities involves judgment, is subject to considerable variability and is revised as additional information becomes available. As such, changes in, or deviations from, the assumptions used in such valuations can significantly affect the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in security values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. The Company’s ability to sell securities, or the price ultimately realized upon the sale of securities, depends upon the demand and liquidity in the market and increases the use of judgment in determining the estimated fair value of certain securities. Accordingly, estimates of fair value are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current or future market exchange. For fixed maturity securities, the Company obtains the fair values, when available, based on quoted prices in active markets that are regularly and readily obtainable. Generally, these are liquid securities and the valuation does not require significant management judgment. When quoted prices in active markets are not available, fair value is based on market standard valuation techniques, giving priority to observable inputs. The Company obtains the fair value for most marketable bonds without an active market from several commercial pricing services. The pricing services incorporate a variety of market observable information in their valuation techniques, including benchmark yields, broker-dealer quotes, credit quality, issuer spreads, bids, 116 offers, and other reference data. For certain fixed maturity securities without an active market, an internally-developed discounted cash flow or other approach is utilized to calculate the fair value. A discount rate is used, which adjusts a market comparable base rate for securities with similar characteristics for credit spread, market illiquidity or other adjustments. The fair value of privately placed fixed maturity securities is based on the credit quality and duration of comparable marketable securities, which may be securities of another issuer with similar characteristics. In some instances, the Company uses a matrix-based pricing model, which considers the current level of risk-free interest rates, corporate spreads, credit quality of the issuer and cash flow characteristics of the security. The Company also considers additional factors, such as net worth of the borrower, value of collateral, capital structure of the borrower, presence of guarantees and its evaluation of the borrower’s ability to compete in its relevant market. For equity securities, the Company obtains the fair value, when available, based on quoted market prices. Other equity securities, typically private equities or equity securities not traded on an exchange, are valued based on other sources, such as commercial pricing services or brokers. For mortgage loans, the company uses independent commercial pricing services. Discounted cash flow analysis is performed through which the loans’ contractual cash flows are modeled and an appropriate discount rate is determined to discount the cash flows to arrive at a present value. Financial factors, credit factors, collateral characteristics and current market conditions are all taken into consideration when performing the discounted cash flow analysis. The Company performs vendor due diligence exercises annually to review vendor processes, models and assumptions. Additionally, the Company reviews price movements on a quarterly basis to ensure reasonableness. Derivatives Valuation of Embedded Derivatives on Indexed Annuities Athene issues and reinsures products, primarily indexed annuity products, or purchases investments that contain embedded derivatives. If Athene determines the embedded derivative has economic characteristics not clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, and a separate instrument with the same terms would qualify as a derivative instrument, the embedded derivative is bifurcated from the host contract and accounted for separately, unless the fair value option is elected on the host contract. Indexed annuities and indexed universal life insurance contracts allow the policyholder to elect a fixed interest rate return or an equity market component for which interest credited is based on the performance of certain equity market indices. The equity market option is an embedded derivative, similar to a call option. The benefit reserve is equal to the sum of the fair value of the embedded derivative and the host (or guaranteed) component of the contracts. The fair value of the embedded derivative represents the present value of cash flows attributable to the indexed strategies. The embedded derivative cash flows are based on assumptions for future policy growth, which include assumptions for expected index credits on the next policy anniversary date, future equity option costs, volatility, interest rates and policyholder behavior. The embedded derivative cash flows are discounted using a rate that reflects Athene’s own credit rating. The host contract is established at contract inception as the initial account value less the initial fair value of the embedded derivative and accreted over the policy’s life. Contracts acquired through a business combination which contain an embedded derivative are re-bifurcated as of the acquisition date. In general, the change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives will not directly correspond to the change in fair value of the hedging derivative assets. The derivatives are intended to hedge the index credits expected to be granted at the end of the current term. The options valued in the embedded derivatives represent the rights of the policyholder to receive index credits over the period indexed strategies are made available to the policyholder, which is typically longer than the current term of the options. From an economic basis, Athene believes it is suitable to hedge with options that align with the index terms of its indexed annuity products because policyholder accounts are credited with index performance at the end of each index term. However, because the value of an embedded derivative in an indexed annuity contract is longer-dated, there is a duration mismatch which may lead to differences in the recognition of income and expense for accounting purposes. A significant assumption in determining policy liabilities for indexed annuities is the vector of rates used to discount indexed strategy cash flows. The change in risk-free rates is expected to drive most of the movement in the discount rates between periods. Changes to credit spreads for a given credit rating as well as any change to Athene’s credit rating requiring a revised level of nonperformance risk would also be factors in the changes to the discount rate. If the discount rates used to discount the indexed strategy cash flows were to fluctuate, there would be a resulting change in reserves for indexed annuities recorded through the consolidated statements of operations. 117 As of December 31, 2023, Athene had embedded derivative liabilities classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy of $9.1 billion. The increase (decrease) to the embedded derivatives on indexed annuity products from hypothetical changes in discount rates is summarized as follows: However, these estimated effects do not take into account potential changes in other variables, such as equity price levels and market volatility, which can also contribute significantly to changes in carrying values. Therefore, the quantitative impact presented in the table above does not necessarily correspond to the ultimate impact on the consolidated financial statements. In determining the ranges, Athene has considered current market conditions, as well as the market level of discount rates that can reasonably be anticipated over the near-term. For additional information regarding sensitivities to interest rate risk and public equity risk, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks — Sensitivities”. Future Policy Benefits The future policy benefit liabilities associated with long duration contracts include term and whole-life products, accident and health, disability, and deferred and immediate annuities with life contingencies, which include pension group annuities with life contingencies. Liabilities for nonparticipating long duration contracts are established as the estimated present value of benefits Athene expects to pay to or on behalf of the policyholder and related expenses less the present value of the net premiums to be collected. For immediate annuities with life contingencies, the liability for future policy benefits is equal to the present value of future benefits and related expenses. Liabilities for nonparticipating long-duration contracts are established using accepted actuarial valuation methods which require the use of assumptions related to discount rate, expenses and policyholder behavior. Athene bases certain key assumptions related to policyholder behavior on industry standard data, adjusted to align with company experience, if needed. All cash flow assumptions, apart from expense assumptions, are established at contract issuance and reviewed annually, or more frequently, if actual experience suggests a revision is necessary. Immediate annuities with life contingencies, which include pension group annuities with life contingencies, and assumed whole life contracts represent the significant majority of Athene’s liabilities for future policy benefits. Significant assumptions for its immediate annuities with life contingencies include discount rates, assumptions for policyholder longevity and policyholder utilization for contracts with deferred lives, while significant assumptions for its whole life contracts include discount rates and assumptions for policyholder mortality, morbidity and lapse rates. In general, the reserve for future policy benefits will decrease when longevity decreases, resulting in remeasurement gains in the consolidated statements of operations. Changes in the discount rate in periods after a cohort has closed will not impact interest expense recognition within the consolidated statements of operations. However, changes in the discount rate will impact the recorded reserve on the consolidated statements of financial condition, with an offsetting unrealized gain or loss recorded to other comprehensive income (loss). Athene uses a single A rate to calculate the present value of reserves related to its immediate annuities with life contingencies and assumed whole life products. For limited-payment contracts where premiums are due over a significantly shorter period than the period over which benefits are provided, a deferred profit liability is established to the extent that gross premium exceeds the net premium reserve and included within future policy benefits. When the net premium ratio for the corresponding future policy benefit is updated for actual experience and changes to projected cash flow assumptions, both the future policy benefit reserve and deferred profit liability are retrospectively recalculated from the contract issuance date. Also included within the liability for future policy benefits is negative VOBA that was established for blocks of insurance contracts acquired through the Mergers. Negative VOBA is related to Athene’s immediate annuities with life contingencies and is subsequently measured on a basis generally consistent with the deferred profit liability. 118 The increase (decrease) to future policy benefit reserves from hypothetical changes in discount rates is summarized as follows: Market Risk Benefits Market risk benefits represent contracts or contract features that both provide protection to the contract holder from, and expose the insurance entity to, other-than-nominal capital market risk. Athene issues and reinsures deferred annuity contracts, which include both traditional deferred and indexed annuities, that contain GLWB and GMDB riders. These riders meet the criteria for and are classified as market risk benefits. Market risk benefits are measured at fair value at the contract level and may be recorded as a liability or an asset. At contract inception, Athene assesses the fees and assessments that are collectible from the policyholder, which include explicit rider fees and other contract fees, and allocates them to the extent they are attributable to the market risk benefit. These attributed fees are used in the valuation of the market risk benefits and are never negative or exceed total explicit fees collectible from the policyholder. Athene is also required to project the expected benefits that will be required for the riders in excess of the projected account balance. Determining the projected benefits in excess of the projected account balance requires judgment for economic and actuarial assumptions, both of which are used in determining future policyholder account growth that will drive the amount of benefits required. Economic assumptions include interest rates and implied equity volatilities throughout the duration of the liability. For riders on indexed annuities, this also includes assumptions about projected equity returns, which impact expected index credits on the next policy anniversary date and future equity option costs. When economic assumptions lead to an increase in expected future policy growth from higher interest and index crediting during the accumulation period, the higher projected account balance at the time of rider utilization decreases the inherent value of the rider as less payments for benefits are required in excess of the account balance. All else constant, the increase in the projected account balance will, therefore, result in a decrease to the market risk benefit liability, or an increase if the market risk benefit is in an asset position, with remeasurement gains recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. Policyholder behavior assumptions are established using accepted actuarial valuation methods to estimate decrements to policies with riders including lapses, full and partial withdrawals (surrender rate) and mortality and the utilization of the benefit riders. Base lapse rates consider the level of surrender charges and are dynamically adjusted based on the level of current interest rates relative to the guaranteed rates and the amount by which any rider guarantees are in a net positive position. Rider utilization assumptions consider the number and timing of policyholders electing the riders. Athene tracks and updates this assumption as experience emerges. Mortality assumptions are set at the product level and are generally based on standard industry tables with adjustments for historical experience and a provision for mortality improvement. While economic assumptions impact the projected account value and the benefits paid in excess of the account value, policyholder behavior assumptions, such as surrenders, impact the expected number of policies that will elect to utilize the rider. An expected increase in decrements and decrease in rider utilization, all else constant, will result in a decrease to the market risk benefit liability or an increase in the market risk benefit asset with remeasurement gains recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. All inputs, including expected fees and assessments and economic and policyholder behavior assumptions, are used to project excess benefits and fees over a range of risk-neutral, stochastic interest rate scenarios. For riders on indexed annuities, stochastic equity return scenarios are also included within the range. The discount rate used to present value the projected cash flows is a significant assumption, with the change in risk-free rates expected to drive most of the movement in discount rates between periods. A risk margin is deducted from the discount rate to reflect the uncertainty in the projected cash flows, such as variations in policyholder behavior, and a credit spread is added to reflect Athene’s risk of nonperformance. If the discount rates used were to fluctuate, there would be a resulting change in reserves for the market risk benefits recorded through the consolidated statements of operations, except for the portion related to the change in nonperformance risk, which is recorded through other comprehensive income (loss). 119 The increase (decrease) to the net market risk benefit balance from hypothetical changes in the discount rate is summarized as follows: Recent Accounting Pronouncements A list of recent accounting pronouncements that are relevant to Apollo and its industries is included in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies Fixed and determinable payments due in connection with the Company’s material contractual obligations are as follows as of December 31, 2023: Note:    Due to the fact that the timing of certain amounts to be paid cannot be determined or for other reasons discussed below, the following contractual commitments have not been presented in the table above. (i) As noted previously, the tax receivable agreement requires us to pay to our Former Managing Partners and Contributing Partners 85% of any tax savings received by AGM and its subsidiaries from our step-up in tax basis. The tax savings achieved may not ensure that we have sufficient cash available to pay this liability and we might be required to incur additional debt to satisfy this liability. (ii) Debt amounts related to the consolidated VIEs are not presented in the table above as the Company is not a guarantor of these non-recourse liabilities. (iii) In connection with the Stone Tower acquisition, Apollo agreed to pay the former owners of Stone Tower a specified percentage of any future performance fees earned from certain of the Stone Tower funds, CLOs and strategic investment accounts. In connection with the acquisition of Griffin Capital’s U.S. asset management business on May 3, 2022, Apollo agreed to pay the former owners certain share-based consideration contingent on specified AUM and capital raising thresholds. These contingent consideration liabilities are remeasured to fair value at each reporting period until the obligations are satisfied. See note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the contingent consideration liabilities. (iv) Commitments from certain of our subsidiaries to contribute to the funds we manage and certain related parties. 120 Atlas Securitized Products Holdings LP In connection with the Company and CS’s previously announced transaction, certain subsidiaries of Atlas acquired certain assets of the CS Securitized Products Group (the “Transaction”). Under the terms of the Transaction, Atlas has agreed to pay CS $3.3 billion, $0.4 billion of which is deferred until February 8, 2026, and $2.9 billion of which is deferred until February 8, 2028. This deferred purchase price is an obligation first of Atlas, second of AAA, third of AAM, fourth of AHL and fifth of AARe. Each of AARe and AAM has issued an assurance letter to CS for the full deferred purchase obligation amount of $3.3 billion. In exchange for the purchase price, Atlas received approximately $0.4 billion in cash and a portfolio of senior secured warehouse assets, subject to debt, with approximately $1 billion of tangible equity value. These warehouse assets are senior secured assets at industry standard loan-to-value ratios, structured to investment grade-equivalent criteria, and were approved by Atlas in connection with this Transaction. In addition, Atlas has received an investment management contract to manage certain unrelated assets on behalf of CS, providing for quarterly payments expected to total approximately $1.1 billion net to Atlas over 5 years. Finally, Atlas shall also benefit generally from the net spread earned on its assets in excess of its cost of financing. As a result, the fair value of the liability related to the Company’s assurance letter is not material to the consolidated financial statements. Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information The 2033 Senior Notes and the 2053 Subordinated Notes issued by AGM are guaranteed on a junior, unsecured basis by AAM, together with certain Apollo intermediary holding companies (collectively, the “Guarantors”). The Guarantors fully and unconditionally guarantee payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on a subordinated, unsecured basis. See note 15 of the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on this debt obligation. AGM, as issuer, and the Guarantors are holding companies. The primary sources of cash flow are dependent upon distributions from their respective subsidiaries to meet their future obligations under the notes and the guarantees, respectively. The 2033 Senior Notes and 2053 Subordinated Notes are not guaranteed by any fee generating businesses, Apollo-managed funds, or Athene and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Holders of the guaranteed registered debt securities will have a direct claim only against AGM as issuer. The following tables present summarized financial information of AGM, as the issuer of the debt securities, and the Guarantors on a combined basis after elimination of intercompany transactions and balances within the Guarantors and equity in the earnings from and investments in any non-guarantor subsidiary. As used herein, “obligor group” means AGM, as the issuer of the debt securities, and the Guarantors on a combined basis. The summarized financial information is provided in accordance with the reporting requirements of Rule 13-01 under SEC Regulation S-X for the obligor group and is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the obligor group in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as such principles are in effect in the United States. 121 The following are transactions of the obligor group with non-guarantor subsidiaries.