********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our financial and operating results are subject to a number of risk factors, many of which are not within our control. Investors should carefully consider the following discussion of risk factors as well as other information appearing in this report. These factors include the following, which are organized by category: Regulatory and Legislative Risks We are subject to federal, state and local regulations that affect our operations and financial results. We are subject to regulatory oversight from various federal, state and local regulatory authorities in the eight states that we serve.  Therefore, our returns are continuously monitored and are subject to challenge for their reasonableness by the appropriate regulatory authorities or other third-party intervenors.  In the normal course of business, as a regulated entity, we often need to place assets in service and establish historical test periods before rate cases that seek to adjust our allowed returns to recover that investment can be filed.  Further, the regulatory review process can be lengthy in the context of traditional ratemaking.  Because of this process, we suffer the negative financial effects of having placed assets in service without the benefit of rate relief, which is commonly referred to as “regulatory lag.” Regulatory authorities in the states we serve have approved various infrastructure and annual rate adjustment mechanisms to effectively reduce the regulatory lag inherent in the ratemaking process. Regulatory lag could significantly increase if the regulatory authorities modify or terminate these rate mechanisms. The regulatory process also involves the risk that regulatory authorities may (i) review our purchases of natural gas and adjust the amount of our gas costs that we pass through to our customers or (ii) limit or disallow the costs we may have incurred from our cost of service that can be recovered from customers. We are also subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and waste, the clean-up of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, as well as work practices related to employee health and safety. Environmental legislation also requires that our facilities, sites and other properties associated with our operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations, permits and licenses may expose us to fines, penalties or interruptions in our operations that could be significant to our financial results. In addition, existing environmental regulations may be revised or our operations may become subject to new regulations. Some of our operations are subject to increased federal regulatory oversight that could affect our operations and financial results. FERC has regulatory authority over some of our operations, including the use and release of interstate pipeline and storage capacity. FERC has adopted rules designed to prevent market power abuse and market manipulation and to promote compliance with FERC’s other rules, policies and orders by companies engaged in the sale, purchase, transportation or storage of natural 14 gas in interstate commerce. These rules carry increased penalties for violations. Although we have taken steps to structure current and future transactions to comply with applicable current FERC regulations, changes in FERC regulations or their interpretation by FERC or additional regulations issued by FERC in the future could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or financial results. We may experience increased federal, state and local regulation of the safety of our operations. The safety and protection of the public, our customers and our employees is our top priority. We constantly monitor and maintain our pipeline and distribution systems to ensure that natural gas is delivered safely, reliably and efficiently through our network of more than 75,000 miles of distribution and transmission lines. As in recent years, natural gas distribution and pipeline companies are continuing to encounter increasing federal, state and local oversight of the safety of their operations. Although we believe these are costs ultimately recoverable through our rates, the costs of complying with new laws and regulations may have at least a short-term adverse impact on our operating costs and financial results. Operational Risks We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity and other similar programs and related repairs. PHMSA requires pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain areas along their pipelines and to take additional measures to protect pipeline segments located in “high consequence areas” where a leak or rupture could potentially do the most harm. As a pipeline operator, the Company is required to: • perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; • identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a “high consequence area”; • improve data collection, integration and analysis; • repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and • implement preventative and mitigating actions. The Company incurs significant costs associated with its compliance with existing PHMSA and comparable state regulations. Although we believe these are costs ultimately recoverable through our rates, the costs of complying with new laws and regulations may have at least a short-term adverse impact on our operating costs and financial results. For example, the adoption of new regulations requiring more comprehensive or stringent safety standards could require installation of new or modified safety controls, new capital projects, or accelerated maintenance programs, all of which could require a potentially significant increase in operating costs. Distributing, transporting and storing natural gas involve risks that may result in accidents and additional operating costs. Our operations involve a number of hazards and operating risks inherent in storing and transporting natural gas that could affect the public safety and reliability of our distribution system. While Atmos Energy, with the support from each of its regulatory commissions, is accelerating the replacement of pipeline infrastructure, operating issues such as leaks, accidents, equipment problems and incidents, including explosions and fire, could result in legal liability, repair and remediation costs, increased operating costs, significant increased capital expenditures, regulatory fines and penalties and other costs and a loss of customer confidence. We maintain liability and property insurance coverage in place for many of these hazards and risks. However, because some of our transmission pipeline and storage facilities are near or are in populated areas, any loss of human life or adverse financial results resulting from such events could be large. If these events were not fully covered by our general liability and property insurance, which policies are subject to certain limits and deductibles, our operations or financial results could be adversely affected. If contracted gas supplies, interstate pipeline and/or storage services are not available or delivered in a timely manner, our ability to meet our customers’ natural gas requirements may be impaired and our financial condition may be adversely affected. In order to meet our customers’ annual and seasonal natural gas demands, we must obtain a sufficient supply of natural gas, interstate pipeline capacity and storage capacity.  If we are unable to obtain these, either from our suppliers’ inability to deliver the contracted commodity or the inability to secure replacement quantities, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.  If a substantial disruption to or reduction in interstate natural gas pipelines’ transmission and storage capacity occurred due to operational failures or disruptions, legislative or regulatory actions, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, extreme cold weather, terrorist or cyber-attacks or acts of war, our operations or financial results could be adversely affected. 15 Our operations are subject to increased competition. In residential and commercial customer markets, our distribution operations compete with other energy products, such as electricity and propane. Our primary product competition is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking. Increases in the price of natural gas could negatively impact our competitive position by decreasing the price benefits of natural gas to the consumer. This could adversely impact our business if our customer growth slows or if our customers further conserve their use of gas, resulting in reduced gas purchases and customer billings. In the case of industrial customers, such as manufacturing plants, adverse economic conditions, including higher gas costs, could cause these customers to use alternative sources of energy, such as electricity, or bypass our systems in favor of special competitive contracts with lower per-unit costs. Our pipeline and storage operations historically have faced limited competition from other existing intrastate pipelines and gas marketers seeking to provide or arrange transportation, storage and other services for customers. However, in the last few years, several new pipelines have been completed, which has increased the level of competition in this segment of our business. Failure to attract and retain a qualified workforce could adversely affect our results of operations. The competition for talent has become increasingly intense and we may experience increased employee turnover due to a tightening labor market. If we are unable to recruit and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, the Company could encounter operating challenges primarily due to a loss of institutional knowledge and expertise, errors due to inexperience, or the lengthy time period typically required to adequately train replacement personnel. In addition, higher costs could result from loss of productivity, increased safety compliance issues, or cost of contract labor. Additionally, our ability to operate is contingent on maintaining a healthy workforce and a safe working environment. As a provider of essential services, we have an obligation to provide natural gas services to customers. Incidents of COVID-19 or any other future pandemic in our workforce could challenge the availability of our workforce which could threaten the continuity of our business operations. Natural disasters, terrorist activities or other significant events could adversely affect our operations or financial results. Natural disasters are always a threat to our assets and operations. In addition, the threat of terrorist activities could lead to increased economic instability and volatility in the price of natural gas that could affect our operations. Also, companies in our industry may face a heightened risk of exposure to actual acts of terrorism, which could subject our operations to increased risks. As a result, the availability of insurance covering such risks may become more limited, which could increase the risk that an event could adversely affect our operations or financial results. Technology and Cybersecurity Risks Increased dependence on technology may hinder the Company’s business operations and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations if such technologies fail. Over the last several years, the Company has implemented or acquired a variety of technological tools including both Company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties. These tools and systems support critical functions including scheduling and dispatching of service technicians, automated meter reading systems, customer care and billing, operational plant logistics, management reporting and external financial reporting. The failure of these or other similarly important technologies, or the Company’s inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into other technologies, could hinder its business operations and adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company has, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into its computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts would protect against all potential issues related to the loss of any such technologies. Cyber-attacks or acts of cyber-terrorism could disrupt our business operations and information technology systems or result in the loss or exposure of confidential or sensitive customer, employee or Company information. Our business operations and information technology systems may be vulnerable to an attack by individuals or organizations intending to disrupt our business operations and information technology systems, even though the Company has implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities. We use our information technology systems to manage our distribution and intrastate pipeline and storage operations and other business processes. Disruption of those systems could adversely impact our ability to safely deliver natural gas to our customers, operate our pipeline and storage systems or serve our customers timely. Accordingly, if such an attack or act of terrorism were to occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we use our information technology systems to protect confidential or sensitive customer, employee and Company information developed and maintained in the normal course of our business. Any attack on such systems that would 16 result in the unauthorized release of customer, employee or other confidential or sensitive data could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, increase our costs and expose us to additional material legal claims and liability. Even though we have insurance coverage in place for many of these cyber-related risks, if such an attack or act of terrorism were to occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected to the extent not fully covered by such insurance coverage. Compliance with and changes in cybersecurity requirements have a cost and operational impact on our business, and failure to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely impact our reputation, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. As cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated, U.S. government warnings have indicated that critical infrastructure assets, including pipeline infrastructure, may be specifically targeted by certain groups. In 2021, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) announced two new security directives in response to a ransomware attack on the Colonial Pipeline that occurred earlier in the year. These directives require critical pipeline owners to comply with mandatory reporting measures, designate a cybersecurity coordinator, provide vulnerability assessments, and ensure compliance with certain cybersecurity requirements. Such directives or other requirements may require expenditure of significant additional resources to respond to cyber-attacks, to continue to modify or enhance protective measures, or to assess, investigate and remediate any critical infrastructure security vulnerabilities. Any failure to comply with such government regulations or failure in our cybersecurity protective measures may result in enforcement actions that may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there is no certainty that costs incurred related to securing against threats will be recovered through rates. Climate Risks Adverse weather conditions could affect our operations or financial results. We have weather-normalized rates for approximately 96 percent of our residential and commercial revenues in our distribution operations, which substantially mitigates the adverse effects of warmer-than-normal weather for meters in those service areas. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to receive such regulatory protection from adverse weather in our rates in the future. The loss of such weather-normalized rates could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. In addition, our operating results may continue to vary somewhat with the actual temperatures during the winter heating season. Additionally, sustained cold weather could challenge our ability to adequately meet customer demand in our operations. Greenhouse gas emissions or other legislation or regulations intended to address climate change could increase our operating costs, adversely affecting our financial results, growth, cash flows and results of operations. Six of the eight states in which we operate have passed legislation to block attempts by local governments to limit the types of energy available to customers. However, federal, regional and/or state legislative and/or regulatory initiatives may attempt to control or limit the causes of climate change, including greenhouse gas emissions, such as carbon dioxide and methane. Such laws or regulations could impose costs tied to greenhouse gas emissions, operational requirements or restrictions, or additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities. They could also provide a cost advantage to alternative energy sources, impose costs or restrictions on end users of natural gas, or result in other costs or requirements, such as costs associated with the adoption of new infrastructure and technology to respond to new mandates. The focus on climate change could adversely impact the reputation of fossil fuel products or services. The occurrence of the foregoing events could put upward pressure on the cost of natural gas relative to other energy sources, increase our costs and the prices we charge to customers, reduce the demand for natural gas or cause fuel switching to other energy sources, and impact the competitive position of natural gas and the ability to serve new or existing customers, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and cash flows. The operations and financial results of the Company could be adversely impacted as a result of climate change. As climate change occurs, our businesses could be adversely impacted. To the extent climate change results in temperatures that differ materially from temperatures we are currently experiencing, financial results could be adversely affected through lower gas volumes and revenues. Climate change could also cause shifts in population, including customers moving away from our service territories. It could also result in more frequent and more severe weather events, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, which could increase our costs to repair damaged facilities and restore service to our customers or impact the cost of gas. If we were unable to deliver natural gas to our customers, our financial results would be impacted by lost revenues, and we generally would have to seek approval from regulators to recover restoration costs. To the extent we would be unable to recover those costs, or if higher rates resulting from our recovery of such costs would result in reduced demand for our services, our future business, financial condition or financial results could be adversely impacted. 17 Financial, Economic and Market Risks Our growth in the future may be limited by the nature of our business, which requires extensive capital spending. Our operations are capital-intensive. We must make significant capital expenditures on a long-term basis to modernize our distribution and transmission system and to comply with the safety rules and regulations issued by the regulatory authorities responsible for the service areas we operate. In addition, we must continually build new capacity to serve the growing needs of the communities we serve. The magnitude of these expenditures may be affected by a number of factors, including new regulations, the general state of the economy and weather. The liquidity required to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and other cash needs is provided from a combination of internally generated cash flows and external debt and equity financing.  The cost and availability of borrowing funds from third party lenders or issuing equity is dependent on the liquidity of the credit markets, interest rates and other market conditions. This in turn may limit the amount of funds we can invest in our infrastructure. The Company is dependent on continued access to the credit and capital markets to execute our business strategy. Our long-term debt is currently rated as “investment grade” by Standard & Poor’s Corporation and Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. Similar to most companies, we rely upon access to both short-term and long-term credit and capital markets to satisfy our liquidity requirements. If adverse credit conditions were to cause a significant limitation on our access to the private credit and public capital markets, we could see a reduction in our liquidity. A significant reduction in our liquidity could in turn trigger a negative change in our ratings outlook or even a reduction in our credit ratings by one or more of the credit rating agencies. Such a downgrade could further limit our access to private credit and/or public capital markets and increase our costs of borrowing. While we believe we can meet our capital requirements from our operations and the sources of financing available to us, we can provide no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future, especially if the market price of natural gas increases significantly. The future effects on our business, liquidity and financial results of a deterioration of current conditions in the credit and capital markets could be material and adverse to us, both in the ways described above or in other ways that we do not currently anticipate. We are exposed to market risks that are beyond our control, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to market risks beyond our control, including (i) commodity price volatility caused by market supply and demand dynamics, counterparty performance or counterparty creditworthiness and (ii) interest rate risk.  We are generally insulated from commodity price risk through our purchased gas cost mechanisms.  With respect to interest rate risk, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our future financial results to the extent that we do not recover our actual interest expense in our rates. The concentration of our operations in the State of Texas exposes our operations and financial results to economic conditions, weather patterns and regulatory decisions in Texas. Approximately 70 percent of our consolidated operations are located in the State of Texas. This concentration of our business in Texas means that our operations and financial results may be significantly affected by changes in the Texas economy in general, weather patterns and regulatory decisions by state and local regulatory authorities in Texas. A deterioration in economic conditions could adversely affect our customers and negatively impact our financial results. Any adverse changes in economic conditions in the states in which we operate could adversely affect the financial resources of many domestic households. As a result, our customers could seek to use less gas and  it may be more difficult for them to pay their gas bills. This would likely lead to slower collections and higher than normal levels of accounts receivable. This, in turn, could increase our financing requirements. Additionally, should economic conditions deteriorate, our industrial customers could seek alternative energy sources, which could result in lower transportation volumes. Increased gas costs could adversely impact our customer base and customer collections and increase our level of indebtedness. Rapid increases in the costs of purchased gas would cause us to experience a significant increase in short-term or long-term debt. We must pay suppliers for gas when it is purchased, which can be significantly in advance of when these costs may be recovered through the collection of monthly customer bills for gas delivered. Increases in purchased gas costs also slow our natural gas distribution collections as customers are more likely to delay the payment of their gas bills, leading to higher than normal accounts receivable. This could result in higher short-term debt levels, greater collection efforts and increased bad debt expense. 18 The costs of providing health care benefits, pension and postretirement health care benefits and related funding requirements may increase substantially. We provide health care benefits, a cash-balance pension plan and postretirement health care benefits to eligible full-time employees. The costs of providing health care benefits to our employees could significantly increase over time due to rapidly increasing health care inflation, and any future legislative changes related to the provision of health care benefits.  The impact of additional costs which are likely to be passed on to the Company is difficult to measure at this time. The costs of providing a cash-balance pension plan to eligible full-time employees prior to 2011 and postretirement health care benefits to eligible full-time employees and related funding requirements could be influenced by changes in the market value of the assets funding our pension and postretirement health care plans. Any significant declines in the value of these investments due to sustained declines in equity markets or a reduction in bond yields could increase the costs of our pension and postretirement health care plans and related funding requirements in the future. Further, our costs of providing such benefits and related funding requirements are also subject to a number of factors, including (i) changing demographics, including longer life expectancy of beneficiaries and an expected increase in the number of eligible former employees over the next five to ten years; (ii) various actuarial calculations and assumptions which may differ materially from actual results due primarily to changing market and economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, and higher or lower withdrawal rates; and (iii) future government regulation. The costs to the Company of providing these benefits and related funding requirements could also increase materially in the future, should there be a material reduction in the amount of the recovery of these costs through our rates or should significant delays develop in the timing of the recovery of such costs, which could adversely affect our financial results.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

INTRODUCTION This section provides management’s discussion of the financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations of Atmos Energy Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries with specific information on results of operations and liquidity and capital resources. It includes management’s interpretation of our financial results, the factors affecting these results, the major factors expected to affect future operating results and future investment and financing plans. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Several factors exist that could influence our future financial performance, some of which are described in Item 1A above, “Risk Factors”. They should be considered in connection with evaluating forward-looking statements contained in this report or otherwise made by or on behalf of us since these factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those set out in such forward-looking statements. Cautionary Statement for the Purposes of the Safe Harbor under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Report are forward-looking statements made in good faith by us and are intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this Report, or any other of our documents or oral presentations, the words “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect”, “forecast”, “goal”, “intend”, “objective”, “plan”, “projection”, “seek”, “strategy” or similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the statements relating to our strategy, operations, markets, services, rates, recovery of costs, availability of gas supply and other factors. These risks and uncertainties include the following: federal, state and local regulatory and political trends and decisions, including the impact of rate proceedings before various state regulatory commissions; increased federal regulatory oversight and potential penalties; possible increased federal, state and local regulation of the safety of our operations; possible significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity and other similar programs and related repairs; the inherent hazards and risks involved in distributing, transporting and storing natural gas; the availability and accessibility of contracted gas supplies, interstate pipeline and/or storage services; increased competition from energy suppliers and alternative forms of energy; failure to attract and retain a qualified workforce; natural disasters, terrorist activities or other events and other risks and uncertainties discussed herein, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control; increased dependence on technology that may hinder the Company's business if such technologies fail; the threat of cyber-attacks or acts of cyber-terrorism that could disrupt our business operations and information technology systems or result in the loss or exposure of confidential or sensitive customer, employee or Company information; the impact of new cybersecurity compliance requirements; adverse weather conditions; the impact of 22 greenhouse gas emissions or other legislation or regulations intended to address climate change; the impact of climate change; the capital-intensive nature of our business; our ability to continue to access the credit and capital markets to execute our business strategy; market risks beyond our control affecting our risk management activities, including commodity price volatility, counterparty performance or creditworthiness and interest rate risk; the concentration of our operations in Texas; the impact of adverse economic conditions on our customers; changes in the availability and price of natural gas; and increased costs of providing health care benefits, along with pension and postretirement health care benefits and increased funding requirements. Accordingly, while we believe these forward-looking statements to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that they will approximate actual experience or that the expectations derived from them will be realized. Further, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from estimates. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies discussed below are both important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require management to make difficult, subjective or complex accounting estimates. Accordingly, these critical accounting policies are reviewed periodically by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 23 24 Non-GAAP Financial Measures As described further in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, due to the passage of Kansas House Bill 2585, we remeasured our deferred tax liability and updated our state deferred tax rate. As a result, we recorded a non-cash income tax benefit of $21.0 million for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2020. Due to the non-recurring nature of this benefit, we believe that net income and diluted net income per share before the non-cash income tax benefit provide a more relevant measure to analyze our financial performance than net income and diluted net income per share in order to allow investors to better analyze our core results and allow the information to be presented on a comparative basis. Accordingly, the following discussion and analysis of our financial performance will reference adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share, non-GAAP measures, which are calculated as follows: RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Atmos Energy strives to operate its businesses safely and reliably while delivering superior shareholder value.  Our commitment to modernizing our natural gas distribution and transmission systems requires a significant level of capital spending.  We have the ability to begin recovering a significant portion of these investments timely through rate designs and mechanisms that reduce or eliminate regulatory lag and separate the recovery of our approved rate from customer usage patterns.  The execution of our capital spending program, the ability to recover these investments timely and our ability to access the capital markets to satisfy our financing needs are the primary drivers that affect our financial performance. The following table details our consolidated net income by segment during the last three fiscal years: During fiscal 2022, we recorded net income of $774.4 million, or $5.60 per diluted share, compared to net income of $665.6 million, or $5.12 per diluted share in the prior year. The year-over-year increase in net income of $108.8 million largely reflects positive rate outcomes driven by safety and reliability spending and distribution customer growth, partially offset by an increase in employee related costs, increased spending on system maintenance activities and an increase in depreciation expense and property taxes associated with increased capital investments. During the year ended September 30, 2022, we implemented ratemaking regulatory actions which resulted in an increase in annual operating income of $174.9 million. Excluding the impact of the refund of excess deferred income taxes resulting from previously enacted tax reform legislation, our total fiscal 2022 rate outcomes were $215.6 million. Additionally, we had ratemaking efforts in progress at September 30, 2022, seeking a total increase in annual operating income of $144.5 million. During fiscal year 2022, we refunded $167.8 million in excess deferred tax liabilities to customers. The refunds reduced operating income and reduced our annual effective income tax rate to 9.1% in fiscal 2022 compared with 18.8% in fiscal 2021. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2022 were $2.4 billion. Over 85 percent was invested to improve the safety and reliability of our distribution and transportation systems, with a significant portion of this investment incurred under regulatory mechanisms that reduce regulatory lag to six months or less. 25 During fiscal 2022, we completed approximately $1.6 billion of long-term debt and equity financing. As of September 30, 2022, our equity capitalization was 53.6 percent. Excluding the $2.2 billion of incremental financing issued in conjunction with Winter Storm Uri, our equity capitalization was 61.3 percent. As of September 30, 2022, we had approximately $3.1 billion in total liquidity, consisting of $51.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, $776.6 million in funds available through equity forward sales agreements and $2,309.4 million in undrawn capacity under our credit facilities. As a result of the continued stability of our earnings, cash flows and capital structure, our Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend by 8.8% percent for fiscal 2023. Distribution Segment The distribution segment is primarily comprised of our regulated natural gas distribution and related sales operations in eight states. The primary factors that impact the results of our distribution operations are our ability to earn our authorized rates of return, competitive factors in the energy industry and economic conditions in our service areas. Our ability to earn our authorized rates is based primarily on our ability to improve the rate design in our various ratemaking jurisdictions to minimize regulatory lag and, ultimately, separate the recovery of our approved rates from customer usage patterns. Improving rate design is a long-term process and is further complicated by the fact that we operate in multiple rate jurisdictions. The “Ratemaking Activity” section of this Form 10-K describes our current rate strategy, progress towards implementing that strategy and recent ratemaking initiatives in more detail. During fiscal 2022, we completed regulatory proceedings in our distribution segment resulting in a $96.2 million increase in annual operating income. Excluding the impact of the refund of excess deferred income taxes resulting from previously enacted tax reform legislation, our total fiscal 2022 annualized rate outcomes in our distribution segment were $136.8 million. Our distribution operations are also affected by the cost of natural gas. We are generally able to pass the cost of gas through to our customers without markup under purchased gas cost adjustment mechanisms; therefore, increases in the cost of gas are offset by a corresponding increase in revenues. Revenues in our Texas and Mississippi service areas include franchise fees and gross receipts taxes, which are calculated as a percentage of revenue (inclusive of gas costs). Therefore, the amount of these taxes included in revenues is influenced by the cost of gas and the level of gas sales volumes. We record the associated tax expense as a component of taxes, other than income. The cost of gas typically does not have a direct impact on our operating income because these costs are recovered through our purchased gas cost adjustment mechanisms.  However, higher gas costs may adversely impact our accounts receivable collections, resulting in higher bad debt expense.  This risk is currently mitigated by rate design that allows us to collect from our customers the gas cost portion of our bad debt expense on approximately 81 percent of our residential and commercial revenues.  Additionally, higher gas costs may require us to increase borrowings under our credit facilities, resulting in higher interest expense.  Finally, higher gas costs, as well as competitive factors in the industry and general economic conditions may cause customers to conserve or, in the case of industrial consumers, to use alternative energy sources. 26 Review of Financial and Operating Results Financial and operational highlights for our distribution segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020 are presented below. (1) See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2021 Operating income for our distribution segment decreased two percent.  Increased refunds of excess deferred taxes to customers decreased year-over-year operating income $98.5 million and reduced the effective income tax rate for this segment to 7.1% compared to 20.6% in the prior year.  Additional key drivers for the change in operating income include: • a $149.9 million increase in rate adjustments, primarily in our Mid-Tex, West Texas and Louisiana Divisions. • a $15.2 million increase due to an increase in the number of customers served, primarily in our Mid-Tex Division. • a $24.9 million decrease in bad debt expense, primarily due to the resumption of collection activities in late fiscal 2021 following the expiration of pandemic-related collection moratoriums. Partially offset by: • a $50.4 million increase in depreciation expense and property taxes associated with increased capital investments. • a $17.3 million decrease in consumption, net of WNA, primarily due to the decline in residential consumption during the second fiscal quarter. • an $8.8 million increase in system maintenance and related activities. • a $25.5 million increase in employee related costs driven by increased headcount, increased number of service orders performed and higher benefits costs. • an $8.9 million increase in insurance premiums. The year-over-year change in other non-operating income (expense) of $27.6 million primarily reflects lower non-service costs related to our postretirement medical plan, partially offset by an increase in unrealized losses on equity investments. Interest charges increased $13.3 million due to the issuance of long-term debt during fiscal 2022 and interest expense recognized in fiscal 2022 related to debt incurred as a result of Winter Storm Uri. As described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, interest related to the incremental financing incurred as a result of Winter Storm Uri was deferred through December 31, 2021 pursuant to a regulatory order issued by the State of Texas. 27 The fiscal year ended September 30, 2021 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 for our distribution segment is described in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. The following table shows our operating income by distribution division, in order of total rate base, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020. The presentation of our distribution operating income is included for financial reporting purposes and may not be appropriate for ratemaking purposes. Pipeline and Storage Segment Our pipeline and storage segment consists of the pipeline and storage operations of our Atmos Pipeline–Texas Division (APT) and our natural gas transmission operations in Louisiana. APT is one of the largest intrastate pipeline operations in Texas with a heavy concentration in the established natural gas producing areas of central, northern and eastern Texas, extending into or near the major producing areas of the Barnett Shale, the Texas Gulf Coast and the Permian Basin of West Texas. APT provides transportation and storage services to our Mid-Tex Division, other third-party local distribution companies, industrial and electric generation customers, as well as marketers and producers. Over 80 percent of this segment's revenues are derived from these services. As part of its pipeline operations, APT owns and operates five underground storage facilities in Texas. Our natural gas transmission operations in Louisiana are comprised of a 21-mile pipeline located in the New Orleans, Louisiana area that is primarily used to aggregate gas supply for our distribution division in Louisiana under a long-term contract and, on a more limited basis, to third parties. The demand fee charged to our Louisiana distribution division for these services is subject to regulatory approval by the Louisiana Public Service Commission. We also manage two asset management plans, which have been approved by applicable state regulatory commissions. Generally, these asset management plans require us to share with our distribution customers a significant portion of the cost savings earned from these arrangements. Our pipeline and storage segment is impacted by seasonal weather patterns, competitive factors in the energy industry and economic conditions in our Texas and Louisiana service areas. Natural gas prices do not directly impact the results of this segment as revenues are derived from the transportation and storage of natural gas. However, natural gas prices and demand for natural gas could influence the level of drilling activity in the supply areas that we serve, which may influence the level of throughput we may be able to transport on our pipelines. Further, natural gas price differences between the various hubs that we serve in Texas could influence the volumes of gas transported for shippers through our Texas pipeline system and rates for such transportation. The results of APT are also significantly impacted by the natural gas requirements of its local distribution company customers. Additionally, its operations may be impacted by the timing of when costs and expenses are incurred and when these costs and expenses are recovered through its tariffs. APT annually uses GRIP to recover capital costs incurred in the prior calendar year. On February 11, 2022, APT made a GRIP filing that covered changes in net property, plant and equipment investment from January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021 with a requested increase in operating income of $78.8 million. On May 18, 2022, the Texas Railroad Commission approved the Company's GRIP filing. The demand fee our Louisiana natural gas transmission pipeline charges to our Louisiana distribution division increases five percent annually and has been approved by the Louisiana Public Service Commission until September 30, 2027. 28 Review of Financial and Operating Results Financial and operational highlights for our pipeline and storage segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020 are presented below. (1) See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2021 Operating income for our pipeline and storage segment increased 10 percent. Increased refunds of excess deferred taxes to customers decreased year-over-year operating income by $13.3 million and reduced the effective income tax rate for this segment to 13.1% compared to 14.9% in the prior year. Additional drivers for the change in operating income include: • a $70.4 million increase due to rate adjustments from GRIP filings approved in May 2021 and 2022. The increase in rates was driven by increased safety and reliability spending. Partially offset by: • an $8.4 million increase in system maintenance expense primarily due to spending on hydrostatic testing. • a $15.4 million increase in depreciation expense and property taxes associated with increased capital investments. The year-over-year change in other non-operating income and interest charges of $2.3 million reflects increased allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) primarily due to increased capital spending, partially offset by an increase in interest expense due to the issuance of long-term debt during fiscal 2022. The fiscal year ended September 30, 2021 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 for our pipeline and storage segment is described in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. INFLATION REDUCTION ACT OF 2022 In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the Inflation Reduction Act) into law. The Inflation Reduction Act includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the Corporate AMT) of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (AFSI) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a three-year period. We currently anticipate this tax will apply to us within the next four to five years. The impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows is dependent on future guidance from the U.S. government. Also, the Inflation Reduction Act imposes a methane emissions charge for methane emissions in excess of 25,000 metric tons carbon dioxide equivalent per year. Based on our preliminary evaluation of the regulations, we currently do not anticipate this provision of the Inflation Reduction Act will have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, the Inflation 29 Reduction Act imposes an excise tax of 1% tax on the fair market value of net stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The impact of this provision will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The liquidity required to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and other cash needs is provided from a combination of internally generated cash flows and external debt and equity financing. Additionally, we have a $1.5 billion commercial paper program and four committed revolving credit facilities with $2.5 billion in total availability from third-party lenders. The commercial paper program and credit facilities provide cost-effective, short-term financing until it can be replaced with a balance of long-term debt and equity financing that achieves the Company's desired capital structure with an equity-to-total-capitalization ratio between 50% and 60%, inclusive of long-term and short-term debt. Additionally, we have various uncommitted trade credit lines with our gas suppliers that we utilize to purchase natural gas on a monthly basis. We have a shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that allows us to issue up to $5.0 billion in common stock and/or debt securities. As of the date of this report, approximately $1.4 billion of securities remained available for issuance under the shelf registration statement, which expires June 29, 2024. We also have an at-the-market (ATM) equity sales program that allows us to issue and sell shares of our common stock up to an aggregate offering price of $1.0 billion (including shares of common stock that may be sold pursuant to forward sale agreements entered into in connection with the ATM equity sales program), which expires June 29, 2024. At September 30, 2022, approximately $481.7 million of equity is available for issuance under this ATM equity sales program. Additionally, as of September 30, 2022, we had $776.6 million in available proceeds from outstanding forward sale agreements. On September 27, 2022, we settled $500 million of forward starting interest rate swaps associated with a planned debt issuance that was completed on October 3, 2022. The following table summarizes our existing forward starting interest rate swaps as of September 30, 2022. The liquidity provided by these sources is expected to be sufficient to fund the Company's working capital needs and capital expenditures program. Additionally, we expect to continue to be able to obtain financing upon reasonable terms as necessary. The following table presents our capitalization as of September 30, 2022 and 2021: (1) Inclusive of our finance leases. (2) Excluding the $2.2 billion of incremental financing issued to pay for the purchased gas costs incurred during Winter Storm Uri, our equity capitalization ratio would have been 61.3% and 60.6% at September 30, 2022 and 2021. Cash Flows Our internally generated funds may change in the future due to a number of factors, some of which we cannot control. These factors include regulatory changes, the price for our services, the demand for such products and services, margin requirements resulting from significant changes in commodity prices, operational risks and other factors. 30 Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended September 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020 are presented below. Cash flows for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021 compared with fiscal year ended September 30, 2020 is described in Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. Cash flows from operating activities For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, cash flow provided by operating activities was $977.6 million compared with cash flow used in operating activities of $1.1 billion in the prior year. Fiscal 2021 operating cash flow included $2.1 billion of cash paid for gas costs incurred during Winter Storm Uri. Excluding this cash outflow, operating cash flow in fiscal 2021 was $996.1 million. The year-over-year decrease in operating cash flow reflects the refund of excess deferred tax liabilities, increased purchases of gas stored underground and the timing of gas cost recoveries, partially offset by increased customer collections and the positive effects of successful rate case outcomes achieved in fiscal 2021 and 2022. Cash flows from investing activities Our capital expenditures are primarily used to improve the safety and reliability of our distribution and transmission system through pipeline replacement and system modernization and to enhance and expand our system to meet customer needs. Over the last three fiscal years, approximately 88 percent of our capital spending has been committed to improving the safety and reliability of our system. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, we had $2.4 billion in capital expenditures compared with $2.0 billion for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021. Capital spending increased by $474.9 million, or 24 percent, as a result of planned increases to modernize our system. Cash flows from financing activities Our financing activities provided $1.4 billion and $3.1 billion in cash for fiscal years 2022 and 2021. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022, we received $1.6 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and equity. We completed a public offering of $600 million of 2.85% senior notes due 2052. We also completed a public offering of $200 million of 2.625% senior notes due 2029 that were used to repay our $200 million floating-rate term loan. Additionally, during the year ended September 30, 2022, we settled 7,907,833 shares that had been sold on a forward basis for net proceeds of $776.8 million. The net proceeds were used primarily to support capital spending and for other general corporate purposes. We also received $197.1 million from the settlement of forward starting interest rate swaps related to a debt issuance completed in October 2022. Additionally, cash dividends increased due to an 8.8 percent increase in our dividend rate and an increase in shares outstanding. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2021, we received $3.4 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and equity. We completed a public offering of $600 million of 1.50% senior notes due 2031, $1.1 billion of 0.625% senior notes due 2023 and $1.1 billion floating rate senior notes due 2023. Net proceeds from the latter two notes were used to pay for gas costs incurred during Winter Storm Uri. Additionally, during the year ended September 30, 2021, we settled 6,130,875 shares that had been sold on a forward basis for net proceeds of $606.7 million. The net proceeds were used primarily to support capital spending and for other general corporate purposes, including the payment of natural gas purchases. Additionally, cash dividends increased due to an 8.7 percent increase in our dividend rate and an increase in shares outstanding. 31 The following table shows the number of shares issued for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020: (1) Share amounts do not include shares issued under forward sale agreements until the shares have been settled. Credit Ratings Our credit ratings directly affect our ability to obtain short-term and long-term financing, in addition to the cost of such financing. In determining our credit ratings, the rating agencies consider a number of quantitative factors, including but not limited to, debt to total capitalization, operating cash flow relative to outstanding debt, operating cash flow coverage of interest and operating cash flow less dividends to debt. In addition, the rating agencies consider qualitative factors such as consistency of our earnings over time, the risks associated with our business and the regulatory structures that govern our rates in the states where we operate. Our debt is rated by two rating agencies: Standard & Poor’s Corporation (S&P) and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s).  As a result of the impacts of Winter Storm Uri, during the second quarter of fiscal 2021, S&P lowered our long-term and short-term credit ratings by one notch and placed our ratings under negative outlook. Additionally, Moody's placed our ratings under negative outlook. In February 2022, Moody’s reaffirmed its long-term and short-term credit ratings and revised our outlook from negative to stable. As of September 30, 2022, our outlook and current debt ratings, which are all considered investment grade are as follows: A significant degradation in our operating performance or a significant reduction in our liquidity caused by more limited access to the private and public credit markets as a result of deteriorating global or national financial and credit conditions could trigger a negative change in our ratings outlook or even a reduction in our credit ratings by the two credit rating agencies. This would mean more limited access to the private and public credit markets and an increase in the costs of such borrowings. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. The highest investment grade credit rating is AAA for S&P and Aaa for Moody’s. The lowest investment grade credit rating is BBB- for S&P and Baa3 for Moody’s. Our credit ratings may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agencies, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. There can be no assurance that a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered, or withdrawn entirely, by a rating agency if, in its judgment, circumstances so warrant. Debt Covenants We were in compliance with all of our debt covenants as of September 30, 2022. Our debt covenants are described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. 32 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table provides information about contractual obligations and commercial commitments at September 30, 2022. (1) Long-term and short-term debt excludes our finance lease obligations, which are separately reported within this table. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. (2) Interest charges were calculated using the effective rate for each debt issuance through the contractual maturity date. (3) Finance lease payments shown above include interest totaling $21.3 million. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. (4) Operating lease payments shown above include interest totaling $36.9 million. S ee Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. (5) Represents liabilities for natural gas commodity financial instruments that were valued as of September 30, 2022. The ultimate settlement amounts of these remaining liabilities are unknown because they are subject to continuing market risk until the financial instruments are settled. (6) Represents expected contributions to our defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, which are discussed in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. (7) Represents liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions claimed or expected to be claimed on tax returns.  The amount does not include interest and penalties that may be applied to these positions. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. We maintain supply contracts with several vendors that generally cover a period of up to one year. Commitments for estimated base gas volumes are established under these contracts on a monthly basis at contractually negotiated prices. Commitments for incremental daily purchases are made as necessary during the month in accordance with the terms of individual contracts. Our Mid-Tex Division also maintains a limited number of long-term supply contracts to ensure a reliable source of gas for our customers in its service area which obligate it to purchase specified volumes at market and fixed prices.  At September 30, 2022, we were committed to purchase 55.6 Bcf within one year and 89.1 Bcf within two to three years under indexed contracts. At September 30, 2022, we were committed to purchase 13.2 Bcf within one year under fixed price contracts with a weighted average price of $5.39 per Mcf. Risk Management Activities In our distribution and pipeline and storage segments, we use a combination of physical storage, fixed physical contracts and fixed financial contracts to reduce our exposure to unusually large winter-period gas price increases. Additionally, we manage interest rate risk by entering into financial instruments to effectively fix the Treasury yield component of the interest cost associated with anticipated financings. We record our financial instruments as a component of risk management assets and liabilities, which are classified as current or noncurrent based upon the anticipated settlement date of the underlying financial instrument. Substantially all of our financial instruments are valued using external market quotes and indices. 33 The following table shows the components of the change in fair value of our financial instruments for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2022 (in thousands): The fair value of our financial instruments at September 30, 2022, is presented below by time period and fair value source: RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS Recent accounting developments and their impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.