********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We operate in a market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following material factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Any of the following risks, either alone or taken together, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Industry and Business Operations Our Regulated Businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state PUCs and other regulatory agencies, which significantly affects our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Regulated Businesses also may be subject to fines, penalties and other sanctions for an inability to meet these regulatory requirements. Our Regulated Businesses provide water and wastewater services to our customers through subsidiaries that are subject to regulation by state PUCs. This regulation affects the rates we charge our customers and has a significant impact on our business and operations. Generally, the state PUCs authorize us to charge rates that they determine are sufficient to recover our prudently incurred operating expenses, including, but not limited to, operating and maintenance costs, depreciation, financing costs and taxes, and provide us with the opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on invested capital. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and strategy depends on the rates authorized by the various state PUCs. We periodically file rate increase applications with state PUCs. The ensuing administrative process may be lengthy and costly. Our rate increase requests may or may not be approved, or may be partially approved, and any approval may not occur in a timely manner. Moreover, a PUC may not approve a rate request in an amount that is sufficient to: • recover our cost of operations, including: purchased water; chemicals; and fuel, power and other commodities used in our operations; • recover our operational labor and labor-related expenses, including without limitation costs and expenses associated with our pension and other post-employment benefits; • enable us to recover our investment; and • provide us with an opportunity to earn an appropriate rate of return on our investment. Approval by the PUCs is also required in connection with other aspects of our Regulated Businesses, which are required to have numerous permits, approvals and certificates from the PUCs that regulate their businesses and authorize acquisitions, dispositions, debt and/or equity financing, and, in certain cases, affiliated transactions. Some state PUCs are empowered to impose financial penalties, fines and other sanctions for non-compliance with applicable rules and regulations. Although we believe that each utility subsidiary has obtained or sought renewal of the material permits, approvals and certificates necessary for its existing operations, we are unable to predict the impact that future regulatory activities may have on our business. In any of these cases, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected. Even if the rates approved are sufficient, we face the risk that we will not achieve the rates of return on equity permitted by state PUCs. This could occur if certain conditions exist, including, but not limited to, (i) water usage is less than the level anticipated in establishing rates, (ii) customers increase their conservation efforts, (iii) we experience unusual or emergent situations, events or conditions, (iv) we experience a significant increase in customers without recovery of the operating and other costs associated with serving them, or a decrease in customers that causes a decrease in operating revenue, or (v) our investments or expenses prove to be higher than the levels estimated in establishing rates. It may be difficult to predict the outcome or impact of these events on us or the actions that may be taken by the PUCs or other governmental authorities in response thereto. Our operations and the quality of water we supply are subject to extensive and increasingly stringent environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations, including with respect to contaminants of emerging concern, compliance with which could impact both our operating costs and capital expenditures, and violations of which could subject us to substantial liabilities and costs, as well as damage to our reputation. Our water and wastewater operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. These requirements include, among others, CERCLA, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, the LCR (as amended), and each of their implementing rules and regulations, as well as other federal and state requirements. For example, state PUCs and environmental regulators set conditions and standards for the water and wastewater services we deliver. If the water or wastewater services we provide to our customers do not comply with regulatory standards, or otherwise violate environmental laws, regulations or permits, or other health and safety and water quality regulations, we could incur substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions or costs, as well as damage to our reputation. In the most serious cases, regulators could reduce requested rate increases or force us to discontinue operations and sell our operating assets to another utility or to a municipality. Given the nature of our business which, in part, involves 22 providing water service for human consumption, any potential non-compliance with, or violation of, environmental, water quality and health and safety laws or regulations would likely pose a more significant risk to us than to a company not similarly involved in the water and wastewater industry. In addition, CERCLA authorizes the EPA to issue orders and bring enforcement actions to compel responsible parties to investigate and take remedial actions with respect to actual or threatened releases of hazardous substances, and can impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, on responsible parties for the costs thereof. We are also required to obtain various environmental permits from regulatory agencies for our operations. We incur substantial operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to comply with environmental, water quality and health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations and their enforcement, have become more stringent over time, and new or stricter requirements, such as the anticipated EPA drinking water regulations for PFAS, the LCRR and the proposed LCRI, could increase our costs. Although we may seek to recover ongoing compliance costs in our Regulated Businesses through customer rates, there can be no guarantee that the various state PUCs or similar regulatory bodies that govern our Regulated Businesses would approve rate increases that would enable us to recover such costs or that such costs will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may also incur liabilities if, under environmental laws and regulations, we are required to investigate and clean up environmental contamination, including potential releases of hazardous chemicals, such as gaseous chlorine, which we use to treat water, or at off-site locations where we have disposed of residual waste or caused an adverse environmental impact. The discovery of previously unknown conditions, or the imposition of cleanup obligations in the future, could result in significant costs and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Such remediation costs may not be covered by insurance and may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. Attention is being given to contaminants of emerging concern, including, without limitation, chemicals and other substances that currently do not have any regulatory standard in drinking water or have been recently created or discovered (including by means of scientific achievements in the analysis and detection of trace amounts of substances). Examples of sources of contaminants include, but are not limited to, newly created chemical compounds (including, for example, manufactured nanomaterials); human and veterinary products; PFAS; bacteria, microbes, viruses, amoebae and other pathogens; and residual by-products of disinfection. We rely upon governmental agencies to set appropriate regulatory standards to protect the public from these and other contaminants, and our role is to provide service that meets these standards, if any. In some of our states, PUCs may disapprove of cost recovery, in whole or in part, for implementation of treatment infrastructure for a contaminant in the absence of a regulatory standard. Furthermore, given the rapid pace at which these contaminants are being created and/or discovered, we may not be able to detect and/or mitigate all such substances in our drinking water system or supplies, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. In addition, we believe these contaminants will continue to form the basis for additional or increased federal or state regulatory initiatives and requirements in the future, which could significantly increase the cost of our operations. Limitations on availability of water supplies or restrictions on our use of water supplies because of government regulation or action may adversely affect our access to sources of water, our ability to supply water to customers or the demand for our water services. Our ability to meet the existing and future demand of our customers depends on the availability of an adequate supply of water. As a general rule, sources of public water supply, including rivers, lakes, streams, groundwater aquifers and recycled water sources, are held in the public trust and are not generally owned by private interests. As a result, we typically do not own the source water that we use in our operations, and the availability of our water supply is established through allocation rights (determined by legislation or court decisions) and passing-flow requirements set by governmental entities or by entering into water purchase agreements. These requirements, which can change from time to time, and vary by state or region, may adversely impact our water supply. Supply issues, such as drought, overuse of sources of water, the protection of threatened species or habitats, contamination or other factors may limit the availability of ground and surface water. If we are unable to secure available or alternative sources of water, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For example, in our Monterey County, California operations, we are seeking to augment our sources of water supply, principally to comply with the cease and desist orders issued by the SWRCB in July 1995 and October 2009 (the “1995 Order,” the “2009 Order” and, as amended in July 2016, the “2016 Order” and, collectively, the “Orders”) that require Cal Am to significantly decrease its diversions from the Carmel River in accordance with a reduction schedule that terminated on December 31, 2021. See Item 3—Legal Proceedings—Alternative Water Supply in Lieu of Carmel River Diversions, which includes additional information regarding this matter. While the Company cannot currently predict the likelihood or result of any adverse outcome associated with these matters, further attempts to comply with the Orders may result in material additional costs or obligations, including fines and penalties against Cal Am in the event of noncompliance with the Orders, which could have a material adverse effect upon us and our business, results of operations and cash flows. 23 Service disruptions caused by severe weather conditions, climate variability patterns or natural or other disasters may disrupt our operations or reduce the demand for our water services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Service interruptions due to severe weather, climate variability patterns and natural or other events are possible across all our businesses. These include, among other things, storms, freezing conditions, high wind conditions, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, landslides, drought, wildfires, coastal and intercoastal floods or high water conditions, including those in or near designated flood plains, pandemics and epidemics, severe electrical storms, sinkholes, solar flares and chemical spills or other contamination causing temporary unavailability of our source water supplies. Weather and other natural events such as these may affect the condition or operability of our facilities, limiting or preventing us from delivering water or wastewater services to our customers, or requiring us to make substantial capital expenditures to repair any damage. Tariffs in place or cost recovery proceedings with respect to our Regulated Businesses may not provide reimbursement to us, in whole or in part, for any of these impacts. Government restrictions on water use may also result in decreased use of water services, even if our water supplies are sufficient to serve our customers, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Seasonal and other drought conditions that may impact our water services are possible across all of our service areas. Governmental restrictions imposed in response to a drought may apply to all systems within a region independent of the supply adequacy of any individual system. Responses may range from voluntary to mandatory water use restrictions, rationing restrictions, water conservation regulations, and requirements to minimize water system leaks. While expenses incurred in implementing water conservation and rationing plans may generally be recoverable provided the relevant PUC determines they were reasonable and prudent, we cannot be certain that any such expenses incurred will, in fact, be fully recovered. Moreover, reductions in water consumption, including those resulting from installation of equipment or changed consumer behavior, may persist even after a drought has ended and restrictions are lifted, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Climate variability may cause increased volatility in weather and may impact water usage and related revenue or require additional expenditures, all of which may not be fully recoverable in rates or otherwise. The issue of climate variability is receiving increasing attention nationally and worldwide. There is consensus among climate scientists that there will be worsening of weather volatility in the future associated with climate variability. Many climate variability predictions present several potential challenges to water and wastewater utilities, including us, such as: • increased frequency and duration of droughts; • increased precipitation and flooding; • increased frequency and severity of storms and other weather events; • challenges associated with changes in temperature or increases in ocean levels; • potential degradation of water quality; • decreases in available water supply and changes in water usage patterns; • increases in the number, length and severity of disruptions in service; • increased costs to repair damaged facilities; or • increased costs to reduce risks associated with the increasing frequency and severity of natural events, including to improve the resiliency and reliability of our water and wastewater treatment and conveyance facilities and systems. Because of the uncertainty of weather volatility related to climate variability, we cannot predict its potential impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Furthermore, both Federal and state laws and regulations have been enacted or proposed that seek to reduce or limit greenhouse gas emissions and require or would require additional reporting, monitoring and disclosure, and these regulations may become more pervasive or stringent in light of changing governmental agendas and priorities, although the exact nature and timing of these changes is uncertain. Although some or all potential expenditures and costs associated with the impact of climate variability and related laws and regulations on our Regulated Businesses could be recovered through rates, infrastructure replacement surcharges or other regulatory mechanisms, there can be no assurance that state PUCs would authorize rate increases to enable us to recover such expenditures and costs, in whole or in part. 24 The current regulatory rate setting process may result in a significant delay, also known as “regulatory lag,” from the time that we invest in infrastructure improvements, incur increased operating expenses as a result of inflation or other factors, incur increased cost of capital, including as a result of increasing short- and long-term interest rates, or experience declining water usage, to the time at which we can seek to address these events in general rate cases; our inability to mitigate or minimize regulatory lag or the impacts thereof could adversely affect our business. There is typically a delay, known as “regulatory lag,” between the time our Regulated Businesses make a capital investment or incur an operating expense increase, including as a result of inflation or other factors, and the time when those costs are reflected in rates. In addition, billings permitted by state PUCs typically are, to a considerable extent, based on the volume of water used in addition to a minimum base rate. Thus, we may experience regulatory lag between the time our revenues are affected by declining usage and the time we are able to adjust the rate per gallon of usage to address declining usage. Our inability to mitigate or reduce regulatory lag or the impacts thereof could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We endeavor to mitigate or reduce regulatory lag by pursuing constructive regulatory practices. For example, two of our states have approved revenue stability mechanisms that adjust rates periodically to ensure that a utility’s revenue will be sufficient to cover its costs regardless of sales volume, including recognition of declining sales resulting from reduced usage, while providing an incentive for customers to use water more efficiently. In addition, 10 o f our state PUCs permit rates to be adjusted outside of the general rate case process through surcharges that address certain capital investments, such as replacement of aging infrastructure. These surcharges are adjusted periodically based on factors such as project completion or future budgeted expenditures, and specific surcharges are eliminated once the related capital investment is incorporated in new PUC-approved rates. Furthermore, in setting rate s, nine of our state PUCs allow us to use future test years, which extend beyond the date a general rate case is filed to allow for current or projected revenues, expenses and investments to be reflected in rates on a more timely basis. Other examples of such regulatory practices include expense mechanisms that allow us to increase rates for certain cost increases that are beyond our control, such as purchased water costs, property or other taxes, or costs for power or other fuel, conservation, chemical or other expenditures. These mechanisms enable us to adjust rates in less time after costs have been incurred than would be the case under a general rate case process without the mechanisms. While these mechanisms have mitigated or reduced regulatory lag in several of our regulated states, we continue to seek approval of regulatory practices to mitigate or reduce regulatory lag in those jurisdictions that have not approved them. Furthermore, PUCs may fail to adopt new surcharges and existing mechanisms may not continue in their current form, or at all, or we may be unable or become ineligible to continue to utilize certain of these mechanisms in the future. Although we intend to continue our efforts to seek state PUC approval of constructive regulatory practices to mitigate or reduce regulatory lag, our efforts may not be successful, or even if partially successful, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in laws and regulations can significantly and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to our Regulated Businesses is uncertain. Changes in laws or regulations, the imposition of additional laws and regulations, changes in enforcement practices of regulators, government policies or court decisions can materially affect our operations, results of operations and cash flows. Certain of the individuals who serve as regulators are elected or political appointees. Therefore, elections which result in a change of political administration or new appointments may also result in changes of the individuals who serve as regulators and changes in the policies of the regulatory agencies that they serve. New laws or regulations, new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, changes in agency policy, including those made in response to shifts in public opinion, or conditions imposed during the regulatory hearing process could have the following consequences, among others: • making it more difficult for us to increase our rates and, as a consequence, to recover our costs or earn our expected rates of return; • changing the determination of the costs, or the amount of costs, that would be considered recoverable in rate cases and other regulatory proceedings; • restricting our ability to terminate our services to customers who owe us money for services previously provided or limiting our bill collection efforts; • requiring us to provide water or wastewater services at reduced rates to certain customers; • limiting or restricting our ability to acquire water or wastewater systems, purchase or dispose of assets, or issue long-term debt or equity, or making it less cost-effective for us to do so; • negatively impacting, among other things: (i) tax rates or positions or the deductibility of expenses under federal or state tax laws, (ii) the availability or amount of, or our ability to comply with the terms and conditions of, tax credits or tax 25 abatement benefit, (iii) the amount of taxes owed or paid, including as a result of the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax provisions, (iv) the timing of tax effects on rates or (v) the ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards; • increasing the associated costs of, and/or of difficulty complying with, environmental, health, safety, consumer privacy, water quality, and water quality accountability laws and regulations to which our operations are subject; • changing or placing additional limitations on change in control requirements relating to any concentration of ownership of our common stock; • making it easier for governmental entities to convert our assets to public ownership via condemnation, eminent domain or other similar process, or for governmental agencies or private plaintiffs to assess liability against us for damages under these or similar processes; • increasing the costs and/or difficulty of complying with proposed changes to federal contractor affirmative action audits; • placing limitations, prohibitions or other requirements with respect to the sharing of information and participation in transactions by or between a regulated subsidiary and us or our other affiliates, including Service Company and any of our other subsidiaries; • restricting or prohibiting our extraction of water from rivers, streams, reservoirs or aquifers; and • revoking or altering the terms of a CPCN issued to us by a state PUC or other governmental authority. Regulatory and environmental risks associated with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater may impose significant costs and liabilities. The wastewater collection, treatment and disposal operations of our subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation and involve environmental risks. If collection, treatment or disposal systems fail, overflow, or do not operate properly, untreated or inadequately treated wastewater or other contaminants could spill onto nearby properties or into nearby streams and rivers, causing damage to persons or property, injury to aquatic life and economic damages. This risk is most acute during periods of substantial rainfall or flooding, which are the main causes of sewer overflow and system failure. Liabilities resulting from such damage could adversely and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some of our wastewater systems have commercial and industrial customers that are subject to specific limitations on the type, character and concentration of the wastewater they are permitted to discharge into our systems. The failure by these commercial and industrial customers to comply with their respective discharge requirements could, in turn, negatively impact our operations, damage our facilities or cause us to exceed applicable discharge limitations and requirements. Liabilities resulting from such exceedance events could adversely and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A loss of one or more large industrial or commercial customers could have a material adverse impact upon the results of operations of one or more of our Regulated Businesses. Adverse economic conditions may cause our customers, particularly industrial and large commercial customers, to curtail operations. A curtailment of operations by such a customer typically results in reduced water usage by that customer. In more severe circumstances, the decline in usage could be permanent. Any decrease in demand resulting from difficult economic conditions affecting these customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Tariffs in place with respect to our Regulated Businesses may not reimburse us, in whole or in part, for any of these impacts. Our Regulated Businesses require significant capital expenditures and may suffer if we fail to secure appropriate funding to make investments, experience increases in short- and long-term interest rates or if we experience delays in completing major capital expenditure projects. The water and wastewater utility business is capital intensive. We invest significant amounts of capital to add, replace and maintain property, plant and equipment, and to improve aging infrastructure. In 2023, we invested $2.6 billion in net Company-funded capital improvements. The level of capital expenditures necessary to maintain the integrity of our systems will continue into the future and, we believe, will increase. If we are not able to obtain sufficient financing through current or future sources of liquidity, we may be unable to maintain our existing property, plant and equipment, fund our capital investment strategies or expand our rate base to enable us to meet our growth targets. Even with adequate financial resources to make required capital expenditures, we face the additional risk that we will not complete our major capital projects on time, as a result of supply chain interruptions, construction delays, permitting delays, labor shortages or other disruptions, environmental restrictions, legal and regulatory challenges, or other obstacles. Each of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Aging infrastructure may lead to service disruptions, property damage and increased capital expenditures and O&M expenses and other costs, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. We have risks associated with aging infrastructure, including water and sewer mains, pumping stations and water and wastewater treatment facilities. Additionally, we may have limited information regarding buried and newly acquired assets, which 26 could challenge our ability to conduct efficient asset management and maintenance practices. Assets that have aged beyond their expected useful lives may experience a higher rate of failure. Failure of aging infrastructure could result in increased capital expenditures and O&M expenses and other costs. In addition, failure of aging infrastructure may result in property damage, and in safety, environmental and public health impacts. To the extent that any increased costs or expenditures are not fully recovered in rates, our results of operations, liquidity and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Seasonality could adversely affect the volume of water sold and our revenues. The volume of water we sell during the warmer months, typically in the summer, is generally greater than during other months, due primarily to increased water usage for irrigation systems, swimming pools, cooling systems and other applications. Throughout the year, and particularly during typically warmer months, the volume of water sold tends to vary with temperature, rainfall levels and rainfall frequency. In the event that temperatures during the typically warmer months are cooler than normal, or if there is more rainfall than normal, the amount of water we sell may decrease and adversely affect our revenues. Two of our jurisdictions, California and Illinois, currently have revenue stability mechanisms that permit us to recover the revenues authorized in a general rate case, regardless of sales volume. Revenue stability mechanisms are designed to recognize declining sales resulting from reduced consumption, while providing an incentive for customers to use water more efficiently. In those jurisdictions that have not adopted a revenue stability mechanism, our operating results could continue to be affected by seasonality. Contamination of water supplies or our water service provided to our customers could result in service limitations and interruptions and exposure to substances not typically found in potable water supplies, and could subject us and our subsidiaries to reductions in usage and other responsive obligations, government enforcement actions, damage to our reputation and private litigation. The water supplies that flow into our treatment plants or are delivered through our distribution system, or the water service that is provided to our customers, may be subject to contamination, including, among other items, contamination from naturally-occurring compounds, chemicals in groundwater systems, pollution resulting from manufactured sources (such as perchlorate, perfluorinated and polyfluorinated compounds, methyl tertiary butyl ether, 1,4-dioxane, lead and other materials, or chemical spills or other incidents that result in contaminants entering the water source), and possible terrorist attacks or other similar incidents. In addition, new categories of contaminants continue to emerge in the water industry. If one of our water supplies or the water service provided to our customers is contaminated, depending on the nature of the contamination, we may have to take responsive actions that could include, among other things (1) limiting use of the water supply under a “Do Not Use” protective order that enables continuation of basic sanitation and essential fire protection, or (2) interrupting the use of that water supply, in whole or in part, potentially impacting basic sanitation and fire protection needs. If service is disrupted, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation may be adversely affected. In addition, we may incur significant costs in order to treat the contaminated source through the expansion of our current treatment facilities or the development of new sources of supply or new treatment methods. We may be unable to recover costs associated with treating or decontaminating water supplies through insurance, customer rates, tariffs or contract terms, and any recovery of these costs that we are able to obtain through regulatory proceedings or otherwise may not occur in a timely manner. Moreover, we could be subject to claims for damages arising from government enforcement actions or toxic tort or other lawsuits arising out of an interruption of service or human exposure to hazardous substances in our drinking water and water supplies. See Item 3—Legal Proceedings for information on certain pending lawsuits related to interruptions of water service. Since we are engaged in the business of providing water service to our customers, contamination of the water supply, or the water service provided to our customers, could result in substantial injury or damage to our customers, employees or others and we could be exposed to substantial claims and litigation. Such claims could relate to, among other things, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, property damage, pollution, and environmental damage and may be brought by our customers or third parties. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties and unfavorable rulings can and do occur. We may not be protected from these claims or negative impacts of these claims in whole or in part by tariffs or other contract terms. Negative impacts to our reputation may occur even if we are not liable for any contamination or other environmental damage or the consequences arising out of human exposure to contamination or hazardous substances within the water supply or distributed finished drinking water. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover all or a portion of these losses, and are subject to deductibles and other limitations. Pending or future claims against us could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to negative customer perception and could lead to increased regulatory oversight or sanctions. Our business and operations have a large direct and indirect customer base and, as a result, we are exposed to public criticism regarding, among other things, the reliability of water service, wastewater and related or ancillary services, the quality of water provided, and the amount, timeliness, content, accuracy and format of bills that are provided for such services. Adverse publicity and negative consumer sentiment arising out of our operations may render legislatures and other governing bodies, state PUCs and other regulatory authorities, and government officials less likely to view us in a favorable light, and may cause us to be susceptible to less 27 favorable legislative, regulatory and economic outcomes, as well as increased regulatory investigations or other oversight and more stringent regulatory or economic requirements. Unfavorable regulatory and economic outcomes may include negative investigative conclusions and/or findings, the enactment of more stringent laws and regulations governing our operations and less favorable economic terms in our long-term contracts related to MSG, a s well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements. The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material negative impact on us and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The failure of, or the requirement to repair, upgrade or dismantle, any of our dams may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. The properties of our Regulated Businesses segment include 74 dams, the majority of which are earthen dams. The failure of any of these dams could result in personal injury and property damage, including without limitation downstream property damage, for which we may be liable. The failure of a dam would also adversely affect our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any losses or liabilities incurred due to a failure of one of our dams might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. We also are required from time to time to decommission, repair or upgrade the dams that we own. The cost of such repairs or upgrades can be and has been material. The federal and state agencies that regulate our operations may adopt rules and regulations requiring us to dismantle our dams, which also could entail material costs. Although in most cases the PUC has permitted recovery of expenses and capital investment related to dam rehabilitation, we might not be able to recover costs of repairs, upgrades or dismantling through rates in the future. The inability to recover these costs or delayed recovery of the costs as a result of regulatory lag can affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Any failure of our network of water and wastewater pipes, water mains and water reservoirs could result in losses and damages that may affect our financial condition and reputation. Our operating subsidiaries distribute water and collect wastewater through an extensive network of pipes, water mains and storage systems located across the United States. A failure of major pipes, mains or reservoirs could result in injuries, property and other damage for which we may be liable. The failure of major pipes, mains and reservoirs may also result in the need to shut down some facilities or parts of our network in order to conduct repairs. Such failures and shutdowns may limit our ability to supply water in sufficient quantities to our customers and to meet the water and wastewater delivery requirements prescribed by government regulators, including state PUCs with jurisdiction over our operations, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and reputation. Any business interruption or other losses might not be covered by insurance policies or be recoverable in rates, and such losses may make it difficult for us to secure insurance at acceptable rates in the future. Moreover, to the extent such business interruptions or other losses are not covered by insurance, they may not be recovered through rate adjustments. An important part of our growth strategy is the acquisition of water and wastewater systems, which involves risks, including competition for acquisition opportunities from other regulated utilities, governmental entities and other buyers, which may hinder or limit our ability to grow our business. An important element of our growth strategy is the acquisition and optimization of water and wastewater systems to broaden our current, and move into new, service areas. We may not be able to acquire other systems or businesses if we cannot identify suitable acquisition opportunities or reach mutually agreeable terms with acquisition candidates, and whether or not any particular acquisition is successfully completed, these activities are expensive and time consuming and are subject to the availability of capital and personnel resources to complete such acquisitions. As consolidation activity increases in the water and wastewater industries and competition from other regulated utilities, governmental entities and other strategic and financial buyers continues to increase, the prices for suitable acquisition candidates may increase and our ability to expand through acquisitions may otherwise be limited. The negotiation and execution of potential acquisitions as well as the integration of acquired systems or businesses with our existing operations could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of our management’s time and resources. Future acquisitions by us could result in, among other things: • unanticipated capital expenditures; • unanticipated acquisition-related expenses; • incurrence or assumption of debt, contingent liabilities and environmental liabilities and obligations, including liabilities that were unknown or undisclosed at the time of acquisition; 28 • failure to recover acquisition adjustments or premiums due to unfavorable decisions by PUCs and other governmental authorities; • failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; • recording goodwill and other intangible assets at values that ultimately may be subject to impairment charges; • fluctuations in quarterly and/or annual results; • failure to realize anticipated or perceived benefits and synergies, such as desired return on equity or profitability, cost savings and revenue enhancements; and • difficulties in integrating or assimilating acquired systems’ operations, personnel, benefits, services and systems and water quality, cybersecurity and infrastructure protection measures. Some or all of these items could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, state laws on acquisition treatment or PUC interpretation thereof may affect our ability to recover costs associated with our investments in newly-acquired water and wastewater systems and any difficulties we encounter in the negotiation, execution or integration process could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, reduce our net income and profitability or adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting. Our Regulated Businesses are subject to condemnation and other proceedings through eminent domain or other similar authorized process, which could materially and adversely affect their results of operations and financial condition. Municipalities and other government subdivisions have historically been involved in the provision of water and wastewater services in the United States, and organized efforts may arise from time to time in one or more of the service areas in which our Regulated Businesses operate to convert our assets to public ownership and operation through exercise of the governmental power of eminent domain, or another similar authorized process. A municipality, other government subdivision or a citizen group may seek to acquire our assets through eminent domain or such other process, either directly or indirectly as a result of a citizen petition. For example, on December 15, 2023, the MPWMD filed eminent domain litigation against Cal Am in Monterey County Superior Court with respect to the Monterey system assets. See Item 3—Legal Proceedings—Proposed Acquisition of Monterey System Assets — Potential Condemnation for additional information regarding this matter. Furthermore, the law in certain jurisdictions in which our Regulated Businesses operate provides for eminent domain rights allowing private property owners to file a lawsuit to seek just compensation against a public utility, if the public utility’s infrastructure has been determined to be a substantial cause of damage to that property. In these actions, the plaintiff would not have to prove that the public utility acted negligently. In California, lawsuits have been filed in connection with large-scale natural events such as wildfires. Some of these lawsuits have included allegations that infrastructure of certain utilities triggered the natural event that resulted in damage to the property. In some cases, the PUC has disallowed recovery in rates of losses incurred by these utilities as a result of such lawsuits. Contesting an exercise of condemnation, eminent domain or other similar process, or responding to a citizen petition, may result in costly legal proceedings and may divert the attention of management. Moreover, our efforts to resist the condemnation, eminent domain or other process may not be successful, which may require us to sell the operations at issue in a condemnation proceeding or to pay a private property owner compensation for the property damage suffered. If a municipality or other government subdivision succeeds in acquiring the assets of one or more of our Regulated Businesses through eminent domain or other process, there is a risk that we will not receive adequate compensation for the business, that we will not be able to keep the compensation, or that we will not be able to divest the business without incurring significant charges. Any of these outcomes may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. We may be subject to physical and cyber attacks. As operators of critical infrastructure, we may face a heightened risk of physical and cyber attacks from internal or external sources. Our water and wastewater systems may be vulnerable to disability or failures as a result of physical or cyber attacks, acts of war or terrorism, vandalism or other causes. Our operational and technology systems throughout our businesses may be vulnerable to unauthorized external or internal access, due to hacking, viruses, acts of violence, war or terrorism, and other causes. Unauthorized access to confidential information located or stored on these systems could negatively and materially impact our reputation, customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties. Further, third parties, including vendors, suppliers and contractors, who perform certain services for us or administer and maintain our sensitive information, could also be targets of cyber attacks and unauthorized access to their operational or technology systems. While we have instituted what we believe are reasonable and appropriate safeguards to protect our operational and technology systems, those safeguards may not always be effective due to the evolving nature of cyber attacks and cyber vulnerabilities. We cannot guarantee that such protections will be completely successful to prevent or mitigate a cyber attack. 29 If, despite our security measures, a significant physical attack or cyber breach occurred, our operations could be disrupted, property damaged, and customer and other confidential information lost or stolen; we could experience substantial loss of revenues, response costs and other financial loss; we could suffer a loss or redirection of management time, attention and resources from our regular business operations; we may be subject to increased regulatory requirements; and we may experience litigation and damage to our reputation, any of which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Applicable laws and regulations or contracts may require us to report cybersecurity incidents or breaches or securely maintain confidential data in the event that we experience a physical or cyber security incident. Our efforts to comply with such laws and regulations or contractual provisions, or our failure to do so, may cause us to incur costs related to legal claims or proceedings and regulatory fines or penalties. These types of events, and their resulting impacts, either to our facilities or assets, those of third parties, or the industry in general, could also cause us to incur additional security and insurance related costs. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information, including personally identifiable information, about our customers and employees. In many cases, we outsource administration of certain functions to vendors that have been and will continue to be targets of cyber attacks. Any theft, loss or fraudulent use of customer, employee or proprietary data as a result of a cyber attack on us or a vendor could also subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers and regulators, among others. We have obtained insurance to provide coverage for a portion of the losses and damages that may result from a physical attack, cyber attack or a security breach, but such insurance is subject to a number of exclusions and may not cover the total loss or damage caused by an attack or a breach. In the future, adequate insurance may not be available at rates that we believe are reasonable, and the costs of responding to and recovering from a physical attack, cyber attack or security breach incident may not be covered by insurance or recoverable in rates. Our business is subject to complex and evolving federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding consumer privacy and the protection or transfer of data relating to individuals, which could result in, among other things, public disclosure of incidents, private or governmental claims or litigation against us, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, reputational harm and increased cost of operations. Laws and regulations are changing and increasing rapidly with respect to data and consumer privacy, security and protection. We are subject to an increasing number of complex and continually evolving data and consumer privacy, security and protection laws and regulations administered by various federal, state and local governments, including, for example, the California Privacy Rights Act, together with its amendments and implementing regulations, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act and the Cyber Incident Reporting for Critical Infrastructure Act of 2022. New laws and regulations may require us to disclose incidents to authorities, regulators and/or the public, when we otherwise may not have been required to disclose such incidents under previous laws and regulations, and such disclosures could negatively and materially impact our reputation, customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties. Federal and state governments have also adopted or are proposing other limitations on, or requirements regarding, the collection, distribution, use, security and storage of personally identifiable information. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards on the collection, use and dissemination of data. Moreover, we expect that current laws, regulations and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the United States will continue to evolve and increase, and we cannot determine the impact that compliance with such future laws, regulations or standards will have on us or on our business. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with current or future federal, state, or local data or consumer privacy or security laws, regulations, policies, guidance, industry standards, or legal obligations, or any incident resulting in unauthorized access to, or the acquisition, release, or transfer of, personally identifiable information or other data relating to our customers, employees and others, may result in private or governmental enforcement actions, litigation or other claims against us, fines and penalties, or adverse perception or publicity about us and our businesses. These events could also require us to change our business practices, and the events or such changes may result in significant diversions of resources, distract management and divert the focus and attention of our security and technical personnel from other critical activities. Any of the foregoing consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. We may sustain losses that exceed or are excluded from our insurance coverage or for which we are self-insured. We maintain insurance coverage, some of which may be self-insured, as part of our overall legal and risk management strategy to minimize potential liabilities arising from our operations. Our insurance programs have varying coverage limits, exclusions and maximums, and insurance companies may seek to deny claims we might make. Generally, our insurance policies cover property damage, worker’s compensation, employer’s liability, general liability, cybersecurity, terrorism risks and automobile liability. Each policy includes deductibles or self-insured retentions and policy limits for covered claims. As a result, we may sustain losses that exceed or that are excluded from our insurance coverage, or for which we are self-insured and must therefore utilize our own financial resources to cover such losses. Although in the past we have been generally able to obtain insurance coverage related to our business, there can be no assurance that we can secure all necessary or appropriate insurance in the future, or that such insurance can be economically secured. For example, catastrophic events can result in decreased coverage limits, more limited coverage, increased premium costs or deductibles. 30 We rely on technology to facilitate the management of our business as well as our customer and supplier relationships, and a failure or disruption of implemented technology could materially and adversely affect our business. Technology is an integral part of our business and operations, and any failure or disruption of the technology or related systems we implement could significantly limit our ability to manage and operate our business effectively and efficiently, which, in turn, could cause our business and competitive position to suffer and adversely affect our results of operations. We use technology systems to, among other things, bill customers, process orders, provide customer service, manage certain plant operations and construction projects, create and manage our financial records and other operational data, track assets, remotely monitor our plants and facilities, and manage human resources, supply chain, inventory, and accounts receivable collections. As a specific example, we depend on water meters to record and communicate the amount of water our customers use, which information in turn is used to generate customer bills, and in recent years, we have experienced greater than expected performance failures with certain water meters used in the Regulated Businesses. When failures occur, we work with meter manufacturers to determine and address the cause of such failures. While these and other failures that we have experienced have not to date had a material adverse effect on our operations, there can be no assurance that efforts to address performance failures or other issues we may experience with water meters or other implemented technology will be successful in the future and that these or future failures of water meters or other technological issues will not have a material adverse effect on us. Although we do not believe that the technology we have implemented or may in the future implement is at a materially greater risk of failure than that used by other similar organizations, our technology and operations that use or rely on technology remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things: failure or interruption of the technology or its related systems; loss or failure of power, internet, telecommunications or data network systems; and operator error or improper operation by, the negligent or improper supervision of, or the intentional acts of, employees, contractors and other third parties. Any or all of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. An inability to successfully develop and implement new technologies poses substantial risks to our business and operational excellence strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A significant part of our long-term strategic plan focuses on safety, operational excellence, cost and expense efficiency (includin g O&M expense efficiency), water quality and affordability, asset and capital management and the customer experience. For example, we have made and plan to continue to make significant investments in developing, deploying, integrating, enhancing and maintaining customer-facing technologies, applications to support field service and customer service operations, water source sensor and evaluation technologies, meter data management and analytics, and intelligent automation technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in designing, developing, deploying, integrating or maintaining these new technologies. Because these efforts can be long-term in nature, these new technologies may be more costly or time-consuming than expected to design, develop, integrate and complete and may not ultimately deliver the expected or desired benefits upon completion. While we have and will continue to seek to recover costs and earn a return on capital expenditures with respect to the costs and expenses of development and deployment of these new technologies in our Regulated Businesses, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in every instance or at all, and our inability to do so may adversely affect our ability to achieve intended cost and expense, including O&M expense, ef ficiencies or other key performance results and, ultimately, could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to efficiently upgrade and improve our operational and technology systems, or implement new systems, could result in higher than expected costs or otherwise adversely impact our internal controls environment, operations and profitability. Upgrades and improvements to computer systems and networks, or the implementation of new systems, may require substantial amounts of management’s time and financial resources to complete, and may also result in system or network defects or operational errors due to multiple factors, including employees’ ability to effectively use the new or upgraded system. We have implemented, and will continue to implement, technology to improve our business processes and customer interactions (including, without limitation, in connection with the installation or upgrade of our enterprise resource planning systems, and to support our cybersecurity program), and have installed new, and upgraded existing, technology systems. Any technical or other difficulties in upgrading and improving existing or implementing new technology systems may increase costs beyond those anticipated and have an adverse or disruptive effect on our operations and reporting processes, including our internal control over financial reporting. We may also experience difficulties integrating current systems with new or upgraded systems, which may impact our ability to serve our customers effectively or efficiently. Although we make efforts to minimize any adverse impact on our controls, business and operations, we cannot assure that all such impacts have been or will be mitigated, and any such impacts could harm our business (individually or collectively) and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Disruptions in our supply chain related to goods, such as pipe, chemicals, power and other fuel, equipment, water and other raw materials, and services, could adversely impact our operations and our ability to serve our customers, as well as our financial results. Our ability to serve our customers and operate our business in compliance with regulatory requirements is dependent upon purchasing or securing necessary goods and services from our suppliers and vendors. These items include but are not limited to 31 contracted services, chemicals, pipe, valves, hydrants, fittings, equipment (including personal protective equipment), water, and power and other fuel. Examples of supply chain disruptions include reduced quantities of goods available in the marketplace, delays in manufacturing or shipping goods, labor shortages at our suppliers or vendors, natural or other disasters and operational impacts to some of our suppliers or vendors. Disruptions in our supply chain related to goods and services have occurred and we anticipate will continue to occur into the foreseeable future. Supply chain disruptions may cause us to be unable to purchase or otherwise obtain needed goods or services at a reasonable price or at all, and may significantly increase the price of goods and services we may obtain from suppliers and vendors. This, in turn, may adversely impact our operations and our ability to serve our customers in compliance with regulatory requirements, as well as our associated results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. While we attempt to plan for and have contingencies in place to address supply chain disruptions, our mitigation efforts may not be successful or may have further negative impacts on us. Our business has inherently dangerous work sites. If we fail to maintain safe work sites, we may experience workforce or customer injuries or loss of life, and be exposed to financial losses, including penalties and other liabilities. Safety is a core value and a strategy at American Water. Our safety performance and progress to our ultimate desired goal of zero injuries are critical to our ability to carry out our operations effectively and to serve our customers, and thereby, to support our reputation. We maintain health and safety practices to protect our employees, customers, contractors, vendors and the public. At our business sites, including construction and maintenance sites, our employees, contractors and others are often in close proximity to large mechanical operating equipment, moving vehicles, pressurized water, electric and gas utility lines, below grade trenches and vaults, electrical and pneumatic hazards, fall from height hazards, suspended loads, hazardous chemicals and other regulated materials. On many sites, we are responsible for safety and, accordingly, must implement important safety procedures and practices above governmental regulatory requirements. As an essential business that provides water and wastewater services, we are focused on the health and safety of our employees, contractors, vendors, customers and others who work at or visit our worksites. If the procedures we implement are ineffective or are not followed by our employees, contractors or others, or we fail to implement procedures, our employees, contractors and others may experience illness, or minor, serious or fatal injuries. Unsafe work sites have the potential to increase employee turnover, expose us to litigation and raise our operating costs. Any of the foregoing could result in financial losses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, our operations can involve the delivery, handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous chemicals, which, if improperly delivered, handled, stored, used or disposed of, or if the location and identification of these chemicals are not reported accurately or timely, serious injury, death, environmental damage or property damage could result, and we could be subjected to fines, penalties or other liabilities. We are also subject to various environmental, transportation and occupational health and safety regulations. Although we maintain functional employee groups whose primary purpose is to implement effective environmental health and safety work procedures and practices throughout our organization, including construction sites and operating facilities, the failure to comply with these regulations or procedures could subject us to liability. Work stoppages and other labor relations matters could adversely affect our results of operations and the ability to serve our customers. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 47% of our workforce was represented by unions, and we had 73 collective bargaining agreements in place with 14 different unions representing our unionized employees. These collective bargaining agreements, 21 of which are scheduled to expire during 2024, are subject to periodic renewal and renegotiation. We may not be able to successfully renew or renegotiate these labor contracts, or enter into new agreements, on terms that are acceptable to us. Any negotiations or dispute resolution processes undertaken in connection with our labor contracts could be delayed or affected by labor actions or work stoppages. Labor actions, work stoppages or the threat of work stoppages, and our failure to obtain favorable labor contract terms during renegotiations, may disrupt our operations, negatively impact the ability to serve our customers, and result in higher labor costs, which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. While we have developed contingency plans to be implemented as necessary if a work stoppage or strike does occur, a strike or work stoppage may have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Financial, Economic and Market-Related Risks Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our liquidity needs. As of December 31, 2023, our aggregate long-term and short-term debt balance (including preferred stock with mandatory redemption requirements) was $12.4 billion, and our working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) was in a deficit position. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital requirements or capital expenditures; 32 • exposing us to interest rate risk with respect to the portion of our indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates; • limiting our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or make payments in connection with our other obligations; • impairing our access to the capital markets for debt and equity; • requiring that an increasing portion of our cash flows from operations be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, dividends on our common stock or capital expenditures; • limiting our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that have less debt. During 2023, we utilized existing sources of liquidity, such as our current cash balances, cash flows from operations and borrowings under our commercial paper program, to meet our short-term liquidity requirements. We believe that existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. In order to meet our capital expenditure and other operational needs, however, we may be required to borrow additional funds under the revolving credit facility. In the event of a sustained market deterioration, we may need to obtain additional sources of liquidity, which would require us to evaluate available alternatives and take appropriate actions. Moreover, additional borrowings may be required to repay or refinance outstanding indebtedness. Debt maturities and sinking fund payments in 2024, 2025 and 2026 will be $475 million, $619 million and $1,478 million, respectively. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms, if at all, to repay or refinance this debt. Moreover, as new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify, limiting our ability to repay or refinance existing debt on favorable terms. We have in the past entered into, and in the future may enter into, financial derivative instruments, including without limitation, interest rate swaps, forward starting swaps and U.S. Treasury lock agreements. See Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. However, these efforts may not be effective to fully mitigate interest rate risk, and may expose us to other risks and uncertainties, including quarterly “mark to market” valuation risk associated with these instruments, that could negatively and materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt service obligations depends in significant part on our future performance, which will be affected by the financial, business, economic, competitive, legislative (including tax initiatives and reforms, and other similar legislation or regulation), regulatory and other risk factors described in this section, many of which are beyond our control. If we do not have sufficient cash flows to pay the principal and interest on our outstanding debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, reduce capital investments, sell assets, borrow additional funds or sell additional equity. In addition, if our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to incur indebtedness sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, we may be unable to plan for or respond to changes in our business, which could cause our financial condition, operating results and prospects to be affected materially and adversely. Our inability to access the debt or equity capital or financial markets or other events could affect our ability to meet our long-term commitments or liquidity needs at reasonable cost, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to cash from operations, during 2023, we relied on a $2.75 billion revolving credit facility, a $2.60 billion commercial paper program, and the debt and equity capital markets, to satisfy our liquidity needs. Historically, we have regularly used our commercial paper program rather than the revolving credit facility as a principal source of short-term borrowing due to the generally more attractive rates we generally could obtain in the commercial paper market. As of December 31, 2023, there were no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility, $180 million of commercial paper outstanding and $75 million in outstanding letters of credit. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to access this commercial paper program or revolving credit facility, when, as and if desired, or that the amount of capital available thereunder will be sufficient to meet all of our liquidity needs at a reasonable, or any, cost. Our ability to comply with covenants in our revolving credit facility and our other consolidated indebtedness is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including events beyond our control. For example, under the terms of the revolving credit facility, our consolidated debt cannot exceed 70% of our consolidated capitalization, as determined under the terms of the facility. If our equity were to decline or debt were to increase to a level that causes us to exceed this limit, lenders under the facility would be entitled to refuse any further extension of credit and to declare all of the outstanding debt thereunder immediately due and payable. Events that could cause a reduction in equity include, without limitation, a significant write-down of our goodwill. To avoid such a default, a waiver or renegotiation of this covenant would be required, which would likely increase funding costs and could result in additional covenants that would restrict our operational and financing flexibility. Even if we are able to comply with this or other covenants, the limitations on our operational and financial flexibility could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to incur 33 indebtedness or reduce equity in connection with financings or other corporate opportunities that we may believe would be in our best interests or the interests of our shareholders to complete. As provided in our five-year capital plan, in order to meet our capital expenditure needs, we intend to issue a combination of short-term and long-term debt securities and/or additional equity shares of common stock. Disruptions in the debt or equity capital markets or changes in our credit ratings or other events could limit our ability to access capital on terms favorable to us or at all. While the lending banks that participate in the revolving credit facility have to date honored their commitments under those facilities, disruptions in the credit markets, changes in our credit ratings, or deterioration of the banking industry’s financial condition could discourage or prevent lenders from meeting their existing lending commitments, extending the terms of such commitments, or agreeing to new commitments. In such a case, we may not be able to access the commercial paper, debt or equity capital markets, or other sources of potential liquidity, in the future on terms acceptable to us or at all. Furthermore, our inability to maintain, renew or replace commitments under our revolving credit facility could materially increase our cost of capital and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Short- or long-term disruptions or volatility in the debt or equity capital and credit markets as a result of economic, legislative, political or other uncertainties, including as a result of changes in U.S. tax and other laws, reduced financing alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to the capital necessary to provide adequate liquidity for our business. Significant volatility or disruptions in the debt or equity capital or credit markets, or financial institution failures, could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the market stabilizes or until alternative financing can be arranged. Such measures could include delaying or deferring capital expenditures, reducing or suspending dividend payments, and reducing other discretionary expenditures. Finally, even absent significant volatility or disruptions in the capital markets, there can be no assurance that we will be able to access markets to obtain capital or financing when necessary or desirable and on terms that are reasonable or acceptable to us. The occurrence of any of these circumstances could expose us to increased interest or other expense, require us to institute cash or liquidity conservation measures or otherwise adversely and materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity, which may limit or impair our ability to achieve our strategic, business and operational goals and objectives. The conditional exchange feature of the Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2026, if triggered, may adversely effect our liquidity and financial condition and may dilute the ownership interest of our shareholders or may otherwise depress the price of parent company’s common stock. In June 2023, AWCC issued $1,035.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2026 (the “Notes”). See Note 11—Long-Term Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Notes. In the event the conditional exchange feature of the Notes is triggered and one or more holders elect to exchange their Notes, AWCC would be required to settle any exchanged principal through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, in that case, even if holders do not elect to exchange their Notes, we would be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. If AWCC elects to settle the portion, if any, of an exchange obligation in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes being exchanged in shares of parent company common stock or a combination of cash and shares of such common stock, any sales in the public market of the common stock deliverable upon such exchange could adversely affect prevailing market prices of parent company common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the exchange of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, and any anticipated exchange of the Notes for shares of such common stock could depress the price of such common stock. Parent company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds. Parent company is a holding company and, as such, it has no substantive operations of its own. Substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. Parent company’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or repay indebtedness to parent company. Prior to paying dividends to parent company, our regulated subsidiaries must comply with applicable regulatory restrictions and financial obligations, including, for example, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends, as well as applicable corporate, tax and other laws and regulations and agreements, and our covenants and other agreements. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to pay or upstream dividends to parent company. A failure or inability of any of these subsidiaries to pay such dividends or repay intercompany obligations could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and parent company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock and meet its other obligations. 34 We have a significant amount of goodwill and other assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis, and we may be required to record impairments or changes in fair value to these assets, which may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our assets as of December 31, 2023, included $1.1 billion of goodwill and $236 million of total assets measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. The goodwill is primarily associated with the acquisition of American Water by an affiliate of our previous owner in 2003. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price the purchaser paid over the fair value of the net tangible and other intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition and is reviewed annually or more frequently if changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As required by the applicable accounting rules, in the past, we have taken significant non-cash charges to operating results for impairments to goodwill or other intangible assets, and have recorded changes in fair value of financial instruments and other assets. We may be required to recognize in the future an impairment of goodwill or a change in fair value of financial instruments or certain other assets due to market conditions, other factors related to our performance or the performance of an acquired business, or other circumstances that may impact the fair value of a financial instrument or the other asset. See Note 18—Fair Value of Financial Information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the fair value of financial and other assets. These market conditions could include a decline over a period of time of our stock price, a decline over a period of time in valuation multiples of comparable water utilities, market price performance of our common stock that compares unfavorably to our peer companies, decreases in control premiums, or other circumstances. A decline in the results forecasted in our business plan due to events such as changes in rate case results, capital investment budgets or interest rates, could also result in an impairment charge. Recognition of impairments of goodwill and changes in fair value of certain of our other assets would result in a charge to income in the period in which the impairment or change occurred, which may negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and total capitalization. The effects of any such impairment or change could be material and could make it more difficult to maintain our credit ratings, secure financing on attractive terms, maintain compliance with debt covenants and meet the expectations of our regulators. Market volatility and other conditions may impact the value of benefit plan assets and liabilities, as well as assumptions related to the benefit plans, which may require us to provide significant additional funding. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy significant future obligations under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. The value of these assets is subject to market fluctuations and volatility, which may cause investment returns to fall below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value of our pension and postretirement benefit plan assets as of the measurement date or a change in the projection of the future return on plan assets can increase the funding requirements under our pension and postretirement benefit plans. Additionally, our pension and postretirement benefit plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. Interest rates have experienced volatility and are subject to potential further adjustments based on the actions of the U.S. Federal Reserve, and others. If interest rates are lower at the current measurement date than the prior measurement date, our liabilities would increase, potentially increasing benefit expense and funding requirements. Further, changes in assumptions, such as increases in life expectancy assumptions and increasing trends in health care costs may also increase our funding requirements. Future increases in pension and other postretirement costs as a result of reduced plan assets may not be fully recoverable in rates, in which case our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. In addition, market factors can affect assumptions we use in determining funding requirements with respect to our pension and postretirement plans. For example, a relatively modest change in our assumptions regarding discount rates can materially affect our calculation of funding requirements. To the extent that the discount rate used in our assumptions is reduced, our benefit obligations could be materially increased, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additional Risks Related to Other Businesses Parent company provides performance guarantees with respect to certain of the obligations of our Other businesses, including financial guarantees or deposits, which may adversely affect parent company if the guarantees are successfully enforced. Under the terms of certain agreements under which our Other businesses, primarily MSG, provide water and wastewater services to municipalities and federal governmental entities, parent company provides guarantees of specified performance obligations, including financial guarantees or deposits. In the event these obligations are not performed, the entity holding the guarantees may seek to enforce the performance commitments against parent company or proceed against the deposit. In that event, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity could be adversely affected. At December 31, 2023, we had remaining performance commitments, as measured by remaining contract revenue, and primarily related to MSG’s contracts, totaling approximately $7.8 billion, of which $1.2 billion are guaranteed by parent company and the remainder is guaranteed by certain subsidiaries in Other. The aggregate amount of remaining performance commitments is likely to increase as the number of military bases served by MSG increases. The presence of these commitments may adversely affect our financial condition and make it more difficult for us to secure financing on attractive terms. 35 MSG’s operations are subject to various risks associated with doing business with the U.S. government. MSG enters into contracts with the U.S. government for the operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems, which contracts may be terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the end of the 50-year term for convenience of the U.S. government or as a result of default or non-performance by the subsidiary performing the contract. In addition, the contract price for each of these military contracts is typically subject to either an annual economic price adjustment, or a price redetermination two years after commencement of operations and every three years thereafter. Any early contract termination or unfavorable annual economic price adjustment or price redetermination could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, entering into contracts with the U.S. government subjects us to a number of operational and compliance risks, including dependence on the level of government spending and compliance with and changes in governmental procurement and security regulations. We are subject to potential government investigations of our business practices and compliance with government procurement and security regulations, which are complex, and compliance with these regulations can be expensive and burdensome. If we were charged with wrongdoing as a result of an investigation, we could be suspended or debarred from bidding on or receiving awards of new contracts with the U.S. government or our existing contracts could be terminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. General Risk Factors New accounting standards or changes to existing accounting standards could materially impact how we report our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The SEC, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other authoritative bodies or governmental entities may issue new pronouncements or new interpretations of existing accounting standards that may require us to change our accounting policies or critical accounting estimates. These changes are beyond our control, can be difficult to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which could also adversely affect our previously reported results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Undetected errors in internal controls and information reporting could result in the disallowance of cost recovery and noncompliant disclosure. Our internal controls, accounting policies and practices and internal information systems are designed to enable us to capture and process transactions and information in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with GAAP, taxation requirements, federal securities laws and regulations and other laws and regulations applicable to us. We have also implemented corporate governance, internal control and accounting policies and procedures in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and relevant SEC rules, as well as other applicable regulations. Management is also responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures and is required to assess annually the effectiveness of these controls. While we believe these controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to verify data integrity, unanticipated or unauthorized actions of employees or temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in oversight or resource constraints could lead to undetected errors that could result in the disallowance of cost recovery and non-compliant disclosure and reporting. The consequences of these events could have a negative impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. The inability of management to certify as to the effectiveness of these controls due to the identification of one or more material weaknesses in these controls could also harm our reputation, increase financing costs or adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified, skilled and/or diverse talent. The success of our business is dependent upon our ability to attract, hire and retain highly qualified, skilled and/or diverse talent, including engineers, licensed operators, water quality, regulatory and management professionals who have the desired experience and expertise. Similar to other organizations, the Company may have challenges implementing its human capital management, recruitment and employee succession plans to attract and retain such talent based on a number of factors including, among others, market conditions, retirements and geography. If we are unable to meet these human capital resource challenges, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely impacted. Our business may be adversely affected by the intentional misconduct of our employees and contractors. Our Code of Ethics requires employees and contractors to make decisions ethically and in compliance with applicable law and regulatory requirements, and our Code of Ethics and its underlying policies, practices and procedures. All employees are required to complete training on and review the Code of Ethics on an annual basis, and violations of the Code of Ethics could result in disciplinary actions up to, and including, termination. Despite these efforts to prevent misconduct, it is possible for employees or contractors to engage in intentional misconduct and violate laws and regulations through, among other things, theft, fraud, misappropriation, bribery, corruption and engaging in conflicts of interest or related person transactions, or otherwise committing serious breaches of our Code of Ethics and our policies, practices and procedures. Intentional misconduct by employees or contractors could result in substantial liability, higher costs, increased regulatory scrutiny and significant reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 36

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on management’s current expectations, estimates and projections about the Company’s business, operations and financial performance. The cautionary statements made in this Form 10-K should be read as applying to all related forward-looking statements whenever they appear in this Form 10-K. The Company’s actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated and expressed in such forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those that are discussed under “Forward-Looking Statements,” Item 1A—Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The Company has a disclosure committee consisting of members of senior management and other key employees involved in the preparation of the Company’s SEC reports. The disclosure committee is actively involved in the review and discussion of the Company’s SEC filings. For a discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial statements for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, please refer to Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 15, 2023. Overview American Water is the largest and most geographically diverse, publicly-traded water and wastewater utility company in the United States, as measured by both operating revenues and population served. The Company employs approximately 6,500 professionals who provide drinking water, wastewater and other related services to over 14 million people in 24 states. The Company’s primary business involves the ownership of utilities that provide water and wastewater services to residential, commercial, industrial, public authority, fire service and sale for resale customers, collectively presented as the “Regulated Businesses.” The Company’s utilities operate in approximately 1,700 communities in 14 states in the United States, with 3.5 million active customers with services provided by its water and wastewater networks. Services provided by the Company’s utilities are subject to regulation by PUCs. The Company also operates other businesses not subject to economic regulation by state PUCs that provide water and wastewater services to the U.S. government on military installations, as well as municipalities, collectively presented throughout this Form 10-K within “Other.” See Item 1—Business for additional information. Selected Financial Data This selected financial data below should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as the remainder of this Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 50 Financial Results For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, diluted earnings per share (GAAP) were $4.90, $4.51 and $6.95, respectively. In 2023, as compared to 2022, diluted earnings per share increased $0.39. The increase was primarily driven by the implementation of new rates in the Regulated Businesses for the return on and recovery of capital and acquisition investments, offset somewhat by increased operating costs, primarily production costs from inflationary pressures, and higher pension costs. Results for 2023 reflect the net favorable impact of warmer, drier weather compared to normal, estimated at $0.13 per share, while results for 2022 reflect the net favorable impact of weather compared to normal, estimated at $0.06 per share. Results for 2023 also reflect the impact of share dilution from the equity financing of $0.29 per share, roughly equivalent to avoided interest expense on the year. Growth Through Capital Investment in Infrastructure and Regulated Acquisitions The Company continues to grow its businesses, with the substantial majority of its growth to be achieved in the Regulated Businesses through (i) continued capital investment in the Company’s infrastructure to provide safe, clean, reliable and affordable water and wastewater services to its customers, and (ii) regulated acquisitions to expand the Company’s services to new customers. In 2023, the Company invested $2.7 billion, in the Regulated Businesses, as discussed below: Regulated Businesses Growth and Optimization • $2.6 billion capital investment in the Regulated Businesses, the substantial majority for infrastructure improvements and replacements; and • $81 million to fund acquisitions, including deposits for pending acquisitions, in the Regulated Businesses, which added approximately 18,100 customers during 2023, in addition to approximately 18,800 customers added through organic growth during 2023. This includes the Company’s New Jersey subsidiary’s acquisition of the water and wastewater assets of Egg Harbor City on June 1, 2023, for a cash purchase price of $22 million, $2 million of which was funded as a deposit to the seller in March 2021 in connection with the execution of the acquisition agreement. On April 6, 2023, the Company’s Illinois subsidiary entered into an agreement to acquire the wastewater treatment plant from Granite City for an amended purchase price of $86 million. This plant provides wastewater service for approximately 26,000 customer connections. The Company expects to close this acquisition in the first quarter of 2024. Effective March 24, 2023, the Company’s Pennsylvania subsidiary acquired the rights to buy the wastewater system assets of the Township of Towamencin, for an aggregate purchase price of $104 million, subject to adjustment as provided in the asset purchase agreement. This system provides wastewater services to approximately 6,300 customer connections in seven townships in Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. The Company expects to close this acquisition in late 2024 or early 2025, pending final regulatory approval. On October 11, 2022, the Company’s Pennsylvania subsidiary entered into an agreement to acquire the public wastewater collection and treatment system assets (the “System Assets”) from the Butler Area Sewer Authority. On November 9, 2023, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission (the “PaPUC”) approved a settlement agreement without modification with respect to the Company’s Pennsylvania subsidiary’s application to acquire the System Assets from the Butler Area Sewer Authority for a purchase price of $230 million, subject to adjustment as provided for in the asset purchase agreement. This system provides wastewater service for approximately 15,000 customer connections. On December 14, 2023, Center Township and Summit Township filed appeals with the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court seeking to reverse the order entered by the PaPUC approving the sale of the System Assets. On December 29, 2023, the Company’s Pennsylvania subsidiary filed applications with the Commonwealth Court seeking to dismiss the appeals and requesting expedited consideration. By order dated February 1, 2024, the Commonwealth Court deferred deciding the application to dismiss the appeals and directed that the issues raised by the applications to dismiss are to be considered as part of the merits of the appeals. The order also granted expedited consideration and directed the case to be included on the next available list and established a briefing schedule. Based on the court’s schedule, the Company estimates that the disposition of the appeals could occur as soon as the second quarter of 2024. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had entered into 25 agreements with a total aggregate purchase price of $589 million for pending acquisitions in the Regulated Businesses, including the agreements discussed above, to add approximately 88,300 additional customers. The Company expects to invest between $16 billion to $17 billion over the next five years, and between $34 billion to $38 billion over the next 10 years, including $3.1 billion in 2024. The Company’s expected future investments include: • capital investment for infrastructure improvements in the Regulated Businesses between $14.5 billion to $15 billion over the next five years, and between $30 billion to $33 billion over the next 10 years; and 51 • growth from acquisitions in the Regulated Businesses to expand the Company’s water and wastewater customer base of between $1.5 billion to $2 billion over the next five years, and between $4 billion to $5 billion over the next 10 years. The Company estimates the expected capital investment for infrastructure improvements in its Regulated Businesses over the next ten years will be allocated to the following purposes: infrastructure renewal 68-70%, resiliency 9-11%, water quality, including capital expenditures for the EPA proposed regulations on PFAS 6-8%, operational efficiency, technology and innovation 5-7%, system expansion 4-6%, other 3-5%. Other Matters Environmental, Health and Safety, and Water Quality Regulation On March 14, 2023, the EPA announced the proposed National Primary Drinking Water Regulations (“NPDWR”) for six PFAS including perfluorooctanoic acid (“PFOA”), perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (“PFOS”), perfluorononanoic acid (“PFNA”), hexafluoropropylene oxide dimer acid (“HFPO-DA”, commonly known as “GenX Chemicals”), perfluorohexane sulfonic acid (“PFHxS”), and perfluorobutane sulfonic acid (“PFBS”). The proposed regulations would establish legally enforceable levels for PFAS in drinking water. The EPA anticipates issuing a final rule in 2024 and utilities will be provided a three-year window to comply with the new regulations once finalized, although the Safe Drinking Water Act allows utilities to request an additional two years if capital improvements are required. The Company performed an initial review of the NPDWR to assess the four parts per trillion requirements for PFAS and the application of the Hazard Index approach for PFNA, PFBS, PFHxS, and GenX Chemicals. On May 24, 2023, the Company submitted comments to the EPA outlining its position on key issues to address the proposed regulations, including its projected costs associated with PFAS treatment at the proposed limits and the potential impact to customers’ bills. The Company estimates an investment of approximately $1 billion of capital expenditures to install additional treatment facilities over a three to five-year period in order to comply with the proposed regulations. Additionally, the Company estimates annual operating expenses up to approximately $50 million related to testing and treatment in today's dollars. These are preliminary estimates based on the proposed rule. The actual expenses may differ from these preliminary estimates and will be dependent upon multiple factors, including the final rule and effective date, as well as the completion of a system-by-system engineering analysis. The Company supports sound policies and compliance with the NPDWR by all water utilities, while protecting customers and communities from the costly burden of monitoring and mitigating PFAS contamination in water systems. The Company continues to advocate for policies that hold polluters accountable and is participating in the multi-district litigation and other lawsuits filed against certain PFAS manufacturers seeking damages and reimbursement of costs incurred and continuing to be incurred to address contamination of public water supply systems by PFAS. For more information on the PFAS multi-district litigation, see Item 3—Legal Proceedings—PFAS Multi-District Litigation. Operational Excellence The Company’s adjusted regulated O&M efficiency ratio was 32.8% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 33.7% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The ratio reflects an increase in operating revenues for the Regulated Businesses, after considering the adjustment for the amortization of the excess accumulated deferred income taxes (“EADIT”) shown in the table below, as well as the continued focus on operating costs. The Company’s adjusted regulated O&M efficiency ratio is a non-GAAP measure and is defined by the Company as its operation and maintenance expenses from the Regulated Businesses, divided by the operating revenues from the Regulated Businesses, where both operation and maintenance expenses and operating revenues were adjusted to eliminate purchased water expense. Operating revenues were further adjusted to exclude reductions for the amortization of the EADIT. Also excluded from operation and maintenance expenses is the allocable portion of non-O&M support services costs, mainly depreciation and general taxes, which is reflected in the Regulated Businesses segment as operation and maintenance expenses, but for consolidated financial reporting purposes, is categorized within other line items in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. The items discussed above were excluded from the O&M efficiency ratio calculation as they are not reflective of management’s ability to increase the efficiency of the Regulated Businesses. 52 The Company evaluates its operating performance using this ratio, and believes it is useful to investors because it directly measures improvement in the operating performance and efficiency of the Regulated Businesses. This information is derived from the Company’s consolidated financial information but is not presented in its financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. This information supplements and should be read in conjunction with the Company’s GAAP disclosures, and should be considered as an addition to, and not a substitute for, any GAAP measure. The Company’s adjusted regulated O&M efficiency ratio (i) is not an accounting measure that is based on GAAP; (ii) is not based on a standard, objective industry definition or method of calculation; (iii) may not be comparable to other companies’ operating measures; and (iv) should not be used in place of the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Presented in the table below is the calculation of the Company’s adjusted regulated O&M efficiency ratio and a reconciliation that compares operation and maintenance expenses and operating revenues, each as determined in accordance with GAAP, to those amounts utilized in the calculation of its adjusted O&M efficiency ratio: (a)    The calculation assumes regulated purchased water revenues approximate regulated purchased water expenses. 53 Regulatory Matters General Rate Cases Presented in the table below are annualized incremental revenues assuming a constant sales volume and customer count, resulting from general rate case authorizations that became effective during 2023: (a) Interim rates were effective May 1, 2022, and the difference between interim and final approved rates were subject to refund. The Virginia State Corporation Commission issued its final Order on April 24, 2023. On June 29, 2023, the California Public Utilities Commission (“CPUC”) issued a decision on the cost of capital application for the Company’s California subsidiary, which authorized a return on equity of 8.98% and a capital structure with an equity component of 57.04% for the three-year period from 2022 to 2024. The CPUC’s decision was effective from the date of the order through the end of 2024. The decision included a Water Cost of Capital Mechanism (the “WCCM”) that allows the California subsidiary to increase its return on equity for the remainder of 2023 and 2024 based on capital market rates. As authorized by the WCCM, the California subsidiary filed with the CPUC staff advice letters to increase the return on equity. On July 25, 2023, the CPUC staff approved a return on equity of 9.50%, effective July 31, 2023. On November 15, 2023, the CPUC staff approved a return on equity of 10.20%, effective January 1, 2024. On May 3, 2023, the Missouri Public Service Commission issued an order approving the March 3, 2023, joint settlement agreement in the general rate case filed on July 1, 2022, by the Company’s Missouri subsidiary. The general rate case order approved a $44 million annualized increase in water and wastewater revenues, excluding $51 million in previously approved infrastructure surcharges, and authorized implementation of the new water and wastewater rates effective May 28, 2023. The annualized revenue increase was driven primarily by significant incremental capital investments since the Missouri subsidiary’s 2021 rate case order. The Missouri subsidiary’s view of its rate base was $2.3 billion, and its view as to its return on equity and long-term debt ratio (each of which is based on the general rate case order but was not disclosed therein) was 9.75% and 50.0%, respectively. On April 24, 2023, the Virginia State Corporation Commission issued an order approving the settlement of the rate case filed on September 26, 2022, by the Company’s Virginia subsidiary. The general rate case order approved an $11 million annualized increase in water and wastewater revenues. Interim rates in this proceeding were effective on May 1, 2022, and the order required that the difference between interim and the final approved rates were subject to refund within 90 days of the order issuance. The order approves the settlement terms with a return on equity of 9.7% and a common equity ratio of 40.7%. The annualized revenue increase was driven primarily by significant incremental capital investments since the Virginia subsidiary’s 2020 rate case order that have been completed or were planned through April 30, 2023, increases in pension and other postretirement benefits expense and increases in production costs, including chemicals, fuel and power costs. The general rate case order includes recovery of the Virginia subsidiary’s COVID-19 deferral balance. It also includes approval of the accounting deferral of deviations in pension and other postretirement benefits expense from those established in base rates, until the Virginia subsidiary’s next base rate case. On December 8, 2022, the PaPUC issued an order approving the joint settlement agreement in the rate case filed on April 29, 2022, by the Company’s Pennsylvania subsidiary. The general rate case order approved a $138 million annualized increase in water and wastewater revenues, excluding $24 million for previously approved infrastructure filings, and authorizes implementation of the new water and wastewater rates effective January 28, 2023. The annualized revenue increase was driven primarily by significant incremental capital investments since the Pennsylvania subsidiary’s 2021 rate case order that were completed through December 31, 2023, increases in pension and other postretirement benefits expense and increases in production costs, including chemicals, fuel and power costs. The general rate case order also includes recovery of the Pennsylvania subsidiary’s COVID-19 deferral balance. The Pennsylvania subsidiary’s view of its rate base was $5.1 billion, and its view as to its return on equity and long-term debt ratio (each of which is based on the general rate case order but was not disclosed therein) was 10.0% and 44.8%, respectively. 54 On December 15, 2022, the Illinois Commerce Commission issued an order approving the adjustment of base rates requested in a rate case filed on February 10, 2022, by the Company’s Illinois subsidiary. As updated in the Illinois subsidiary’s June 29, 2022 rebuttal filing, the request sought $83 million in additional annualized revenues, excluding previously recovered infrastructure surcharges. The general rate case order approved a $67 million annualized increase in water and wastewater system revenues, excluding previously recovered infrastructure surcharges of $18 million, effective January 1, 2023, based on an authorized return on equity of 9.78%, authorized rate base of $1.64 billion, a common equity ratio of 49.0% and a debt ratio of 51.0%. The annualized revenue increase was driven primarily by significant water and wastewater system capital investments since the Illinois subsidiary’s 2017 rate case order that have been completed or were planned through December 31, 2023, expected higher pension and other postretirement benefit costs, and increases in production costs, including chemicals, fuel and power costs. Pending General Rate Case Filings On January 25, 2024, the Company’s Illinois subsidiary filed tariffs for new water and wastewater rates. The request seeks a two-step rate increase consisting of aggregate annualized incremental revenue, based on a proposed return on equity of 10.75%, of (i) approximately $136 million effective January 1, 2025, based on a future test year through December 31, 2025 with average rate base and a capital structure with an equity component of 52.27% and a debt component of 47.73%, and (ii) approximately $16 million effective January 1, 2026, based on a future test year to include end of period rate base and a capital structure with an equity component of 54.43% and a debt component of 45.57%. The requested increases are driven primarily by an estimated $557 million in capital investments to be made by the Illinois subsidiary starting January 2024 through December 2025. The request also proposes a treatment and compliance rider to address recovery of future environmental compliance investments, and a modification to the existing volume balancing account mechanism to include full production cost recovery. On January 19, 2024, the Company’s New Jersey subsidiary filed a general rate case requesting approximately $162 million in additional annualized revenues, whic h is based on a proposed return on equity of 10.75% and a capital structure with an equity component of 56.30% and a debt component of 43.70%. The requested annualized revenue increase is driven primarily by approximately $1.3 billion in capital investments made and to be made by the New Jersey subsidiary through December 2024. The request also proposes a revenue decoupling mechanism and seeks a deferral of certain production cost adjustments. On December 15, 2023, the Company’s California subsidiary submitted a request to delay by one year its cost of capital filing and maintain its current authorized cost of capital through 2025. On February 2, 2024, the CPUC granted the request for a one year extension of the cost of capital filing to May 1, 2025, to set its authorized cost of capital beginning January 1, 2026. On November 8, 2023, the Company’s Pennsylvania subsidiary filed a general rate case requesting approximately $204 million in additional annualized revenues, excluding projected infrastructure surcharges of $20 million. The request is based on a proposed return on equity of 10.95% and a capital structure with an equity component of 55.30% and a debt component of 44.70%. The requested annualized incremental revenue increase is driven primarily by an estimated $1.0 billion of incremental capital investments to be made through mid-2025. The request also proposes a mechanism to address compliance with evolving environmental requirements, such as emerging federal regulations for lead and PFAS. If approved, the new rates would be expected to take effect on August 7, 2024. On November 1, 2023, the Company’s Virginia subsidiary filed a general rate case requesting $20 million in additional annualized revenues. The request is based on a proposed return on equity of 10.95% and a capital structure with an equity component of 45.67% and a debt and other component of 54.33%. The requested increase is driven by approximately $110 million in capital investments between May 2023 and April 2025. The request also proposed a revenue decoupling mechanism and seeks deferral of certain production cost adjustments. Interim rates will be effective May 1, 2024, with the difference between interim and final approved rates subject to refund. On June 30, 2023, the Company’s Kentucky subsidiary filed a general rate case requesting $26 million in additional annualized revenues, excluding infrastructure surcharges of $10 million. The request is based on a proposed return on common equity of 10.75% and a proposed capital structure with a common equity component of 52.45%. An order is expected in the general rate case by the end of the first quarter of 2024. On May 1, 2023, the Company’s West Virginia subsidiary filed a general rate case requesting $45 million in additional annualized revenues, excluding previously approved infrastructure surcharges of $7 million. The request is based on a proposed return on equity of 10.50% and a capital structure with an equity component of 52.80%. The general rate case includes a future test year capturing planned investment through 2025 and an order is expected to be issued by February 25, 2024. On June 30, 2023, the West Virginia subsidiary filed its annual infrastructure surcharge requesting $8 million in additional annualized revenues for planned investment through 2024. The infrastructure surcharge will be aligned with the investments recognized in the general rate case if the future test year is approved. 55 On March 31, 2023, the Company’s Indiana subsidiary filed a general rate case requesting $87 million in additional annualized revenues, excluding $41 million of revenue from infrastructure filings already approved, which includes three step increases, with $43 million of the increase to be included in rates in January 2024, $18 million in May 2024, and $26 million in May 2025. The requested adjustment is based on a proposed return on equity of 10.60% and a capital structure with an equity component of 56.20%. Hearings were completed in September and an order is expected in the general rate case by the end of February 2024. On July 1, 2022, the Company’s California subsidiary filed a general rate case requesting an increase in 2024 revenue of $56 million and a total increase in revenue over the 2024 to 2026 period of $95 million, all as compared to 2022 revenues. The Company updated its filing in January 2023 to capture the authorized step increase effective January 1, 2023. The filing was also updated to incorporate a decoupling proposal and a revision to the Company’s sales and associated variable expense forecast. The revised filing requested additional annualized revenues for the test year 2024 of $37 million, compared to 2023 revenues. This excludes the proposed step rate and attrition rate increase for 2025 and 2026 of $20 million and $19 million, respectively. The total revenue requirement request for the three-year rate case cycle, incorporating updates to present rate revenues and forecasted demand, is $76 million. On November 17, 2023, the California subsidiary filed with the CPUC a partial settlement agreement reached with the CPUC’s Public Advocates Office, which would determine the amount of incremental annualized water and wastewater revenue to be received by the California subsidiary to be $20 million in the 2024 test year, $16 million in the 2025 escalation year, and $15 million in the 2026 attrition year . The partial settlement agreement addresses the California subsidiary’s revenue requirement request but does not address rate design or certain other matters, such as the requested inclusion and implementation of a revenue stability mechanism to separate the California subsidiary’s revenue and water sales. New rates would be implemented retroactively to January 1, 2024, upon a final decision issued by the CPUC approving the partial settlement agreement and resolving the other issues not addressed by the partial settlement agreement, which is expected to occur in mid-2024. Infrastructure Surcharges A number of states have authorized the use of regulatory mechanisms that permit rates to be adjusted outside of a general rate case for certain costs and investments, such as infrastructure surcharge mechanisms that permit recovery of capital investments to replace aging infrastructure. Presented in the table below are annualized incremental revenues, assuming a constant sales volume and customer count, resulting from infrastructure surcharge authorizations that became effective during 2023: (a) In 2023, $15 million was effective October 30, $1 million was effective June 29 and $16 million was effective April 29. (b) In 2023, $20 million was effective March 23 and $6 million was effective March 8. Presented in the table below are annualized incremental revenues, assuming a constant sales volume and customer count, resulting from infrastructure surcharge authorizations that became effective on or after January 1, 2024: Pending Infrastructure Surcharge Filings On January 31, 2024, the Company’s Iowa subsidiary filed an infrastructure surcharge proceeding requesting $1 million in additional annualized revenues. 56 Other Regulatory Matters In September 2020, the CPUC released a decision under its Low-Income Rate Payer Assistance program rulemaking that required the Company’s California subsidiary to file a proposal to alter its water revenue adjustment mechanism in its next general rate case filing in 2022, which would have become effective upon receiving an order in the current pending rate case. On October 5, 2020, the Company’s California subsidiary filed an application for rehearing of the decision and following the CPUC’s denial of its rehearing application in September 2021, the Company’s California subsidiary filed a petition for writ of review with the California Supreme Court on October 27, 2021. On May 18, 2022, the California Supreme Court issued a writ of review for the California subsidiary’s petition and the petitions filed by other entities challenging the decision. Independent of the judicial challenge, California passed Senate Bill 1469, which allows the CPUC to consider and authorize the implementation of a mechanism that separates the water corporation’s revenue and its water sales. Legislation was signed by the Governor on September 30, 2022, and became effective on January 1, 2023. In response to the legislation, on January 27, 2023, the Company’s California subsidiary filed an updated application requesting the CPUC to consider a Water Resources Sustainability Plan decoupling mechanism in its pending 2022 general rate case, which, if adopted, will become effective upon receiving an order in the current pending rate case. On March 2, 2021, an administrative law judge (“ALJ”) in the Office of Administrative Law of New Jersey filed an initial decision with the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (“NJBPU”) that recommended denial of a petition filed by the Company’s New Jersey subsidiary, which sought approval of acquisition adjustments in rate base of $29 million associated with the acquisitions of Shorelands Water Company, Inc. in 2017 and the Borough of Haddonfield’s water and wastewater systems in 2015. On July 29, 2021, the NJBPU issued an order adopting the ALJ’s initial decision without modification. The Company’s New Jersey subsidiary filed a Notice of Appeal with the New Jersey Appellate Division on September 10, 2021. The Company’s New Jersey subsidiary filed its brief in support of the appeal on March 4, 2022. Response and Reply briefs were filed on June 22, 2022, and August 4, 2022, respectively. Oral argument was held on March 22, 2023, and the decision remains pending. There is no financial impact to the Company as a result of the NJBPU’s order, since the acquisition adjustments are currently recorded as goodwill on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Consolidated Results of Operations Presented in the table below are the Company’s consolidated results of operations: 57 Segment Results of Operations The Company’s operating segments are comprised of its businesses which generate revenue, incur expense and have separate financial information which is regularly used by management to make operating decisions, assess performance and allocate resources. The Company operates its business primarily through one reportable segment, the Regulated Businesses segment. Other primarily includes MSG, which does not meet the criteria of a reportable segment in accordance with GAAP. Other also includes corporate costs that are not allocated to the Company’s Regulated Businesses , i nterest income related to the secured seller promissory note from the sale of HOS, income from assets not associated with the Regulated Businesses, eliminations of inter-segment transactions and fair value adjustments related to acquisitions that have not been allocated to the Regulated Businesses segment. This presentation is consistent with how management assesses the results of these businesses. For a discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial statements for fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, please refer to Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 15, 2023. Sale of Homeowner Services Group On December 9, 2021, the Company sold all of the equity interests in subsidiaries that comprised HOS to a wholly owned subsidiary (the “Buyer”) of funds advised by Apax Partners LLP, a global private equity advisory firm, for total consideration of approximately $1.275 billion, resulting in pre-tax gain of $748 million. The consideration at closing was comprised of $480 million in cash, a secured seller promissory note payable in cash and issued by the Buyer in the principal amount of $720 million, with an interest rate of 7.00% per year, and a contingent cash payment of $75 million payable upon satisfaction of certain conditions on or before December 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded post-closing adjustments, primarily related to working capital, of pre-tax income of $20 million, which is included in Gain on sale of businesses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company recognized $50 million of interest income during the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, from the secured seller note. On February 2, 2024, the secured seller note was amended to increase the principal amount from $720 million to $795 million, in full satisfaction of the $75 million contingent cash payment payable under the HOS sale agreement. In addition, the interest rate payable on the secured seller note has increased from 7.00% per year to 10.00% per year until maturity. The secured seller note requires compliance with affirmative and negative covenants (subject to certain conditions, limitations and exceptions), including a covenant limiting the incurrence by the Buyer and certain affiliates of additional indebtedness in excess of certain thresholds, but does not include any financial maintenance covenants. Certain of these covenants have been amended, including to provide for annual reductions of specified debt incurrence ratios. Furthermore, the amendment to the secured seller note eliminated the conditional right, beginning December 9, 2024, to require a repayment, without premium or penalty, of 100% of the outstanding principal amount in full in cash together with all accrued and unpaid interest and other obligations thereunder. The final maturity date of the secured seller note remains December 9, 2026. The $75 million additional principal under the secured seller note must be repaid in full, without premium or penalty, in the event a proposed acquisition of a complementary business by or on behalf of an affiliate of the Buyer is not completed by May 2, 2024. The repayment obligations of the Buyer under the seller note are secured by a first priority security interest in certain property of the Buyer and the former HOS subsidiaries, including their cash and securities accounts, as well as a pledge of the equity interests in each of those subsidiaries, subject to certain limitations and exceptions. As a result of the sale of HOS, the categories which were previously shown as “Market-Based Businesses” and “Other” have been combined and shown as Other. Segment results for the year ended December 31, 2021, have been adjusted retrospectively to reflect this change. 58 Regulated Businesses Segment Presented in the table below is financial information for the Regulated Businesses: Operating Revenues Presented in the tables below is information regarding the main components of the Regulated Businesses’ operating revenues: (a) Includes other operating revenues consisting primarily of miscellaneous utility charges, fees and rents. 59 In 2023, as compared to 2022, operating revenues increased $415 million, primarily due to: (i) a $350 million increase from authorized rate increases, including infrastructure surcharges, principally to fund infrastructure investment in various states; (ii) a $32 million increase from water and wastewater acquisitions and organic growth in existing systems; (iii) a $19 million estimated net increase primarily due to drier than normal weather in 2023, mainly driven by drought conditions in our Missouri service territory; (iv) a $23 million net increase as a result of reduced amortization of EADIT, primarily in the Company’s Pennsylvania subsidiary; and (v) partially offset by a $12 million decrease due to changes in customer demand. Operation and Maintenance Presented in the table below is information regarding the main components of the Regulated Businesses’ operating and maintenance expense: Employee-Related Costs In 2023, as compared to 2022, employee-related costs increased $8 million primarily due to annual merit increases and higher employee headcount to support growth of the business, which was partially offset by lower pension service costs, mainly attributable to an increase in the discount rate assumption. Production Costs In 2023, as compared to 2022, production costs increased $51 million, primarily due to inflationary impacts from increased fuel, power and chemical costs, as well as an increase in waste disposal maintenance. 60 Operating Supplies and Services In 2023, as compared to 2022, operating supplies and services increased $13 million primarily due to an increase in maintenance costs on equipment and buildings. Other In 2023, as compared to 2022, other increased $12 million primarily due to an increase to the insurance other than group reserve which had an unfavorable claims experience compared to prior year, as well as higher insurance premiums. Depreciation and Amortization In 2023, as compared to 2022, depreciation and amortization increased $60 million primarily due to additional utility plant placed in service from capital infrastructure investments and acquisitions. General Taxes In 2023, as compared to 2022, general taxes increased $24 million, primarily due to an increase in the New Jersey Gross Receipts Tax and incremental property taxes. Other Income (Expense) In 2023, as compared to 2022, other expenses increased $49 million primarily due to higher net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs in the current period as a result of market conditions, as well as higher interest expense from the issuance of incremental long-term debt. These increases were partially offset by an increase in allowance for funds used during construction in the current periods. Provision for Income Taxes In 2023, as compared to 2022, the Regulated Businesses’ provision for income taxes increased $71 million. The Regulated Businesses’ effective income tax rate was 21.1% and 18.0% for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase was primarily due to the decrease in the amortization of EADIT, pursuant to regulatory orders. The amortization of EADIT is generally offset with reductions in revenue. Other Presented in the table below is information for Other: Operating Revenues In 2023, as compared to 2022, operating revenues increased $27 million from an increase in capital projects in MSG, primarily at the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York and revenue for Naval Station Mayport. The Naval Station Mayport contract was awarded on June 30, 2022, with the performance start date for operation on March 1, 2023. 61 Operation and Maintenance Presented in the table below is information regarding the main components of Other’s operating and maintenance expense: Operating Supplies and Services In 2023, as compared to 2022, operating supplies and services increased $30 million primarily due to costs associated with the increased capital projects in MSG. Employee-Related Costs In 2023, as compared to 2022, employee-related costs increased $12 million primarily due to salaries and wages and group insurance. Gain on Sale of Businesses In 2022, the Company recorded post-closing adjustments, primarily related to working capital, of pre-tax income of $20 million, which increased the total gain related to the sale of HOS. See Note 5—Acquisitions and Divestitures in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Tax Matters On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “IRA”) was signed into law. The IRA contains a Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax (“CAMT”) provision, effective January 1, 2023. To determine if a company is considered an applicable corporation subject to CAMT, the company’s average adjusted financial statement income (“AFSI”) for the three consecutive years preceding the tax year must exceed $1 billion. An applicable corporation must make several adjustments to net income when determining AFSI. During 2023, the Company evaluated the potential impacts of the CAMT provision within the IRA and available guidance and determined that it did not exceed the $1 billion AFSI threshold and therefore was not subject to CAMT in 2023. Based on current guidance, the Company is expected to be subject to CAMT beginning in 2024, and will continue to evaluate the impacts as additional guidance is released. Legislative Updates During 2023 and 2024, the Company’s regulatory jurisdictions enacted the following legislation that has been approved and is effective as of February 14, 2024: • California passed Senate Bill 1469, which allows the CPUC to consider and authorize the implementation of a mechanism that separates the water corporation’s revenue and its water sales. Legislation was signed by the Governor on September 30, 2022, and was effective on January 1, 2023. • Indiana passed House Bill 1417, which allows for deferred accounting and subsequent recovery through rates of regulatory assets, with or without Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (the “IURC”) approval. There are several requirements: (i) the costs must be deferred as a regulatory asset, (ii) only incremental costs may be deferred, and (iii) the IURC must find the costs to be reasonable and prudent. Legislation was signed by the Governor and became effective on April 20, 2023. • Indiana passed Senate Bill 180, which allows for consolidated revenue to support post-acquisition capital improvements in wastewater systems via a service enhancement improvement recovery mechanism. Legislation was signed by the Governor and became effective on May 1, 2023. 62 • Illinois passed House Bill 1105, which provides that property belonging to a public utility that provides water or sewer service may not be taken or damaged by eminent domain without prior approval from the Illinois Commerce Commission. Legislation was signed by the Governor and became effective on June 9, 2023. • Illinois passed Senate Bill 250 (Public Act 103-0006), which contains supplemental appropriations for the previous fiscal year 2023 and appropriations for fiscal year 2024. This bill contains a $5 million appropriation to the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity for purposes of grants pursuant to the Water and Sewer Financial Assistance Act (Public Act 102-262), which was an initiative of the Company’s Illinois subsidiary during the 102nd General Assembly. Legislation was signed by the Governor on June 7, 2023, and the appropriation became effective July 1, 2023. • California passed Senate Bill 122, which authorizes $300 million in additional funding for the California Water and Wastewater Arrearage Payment Program, and extends the eligibility date from March 2020 to June 2021, to March 2020 to December 2022. Legislation was signed and became effective on July 10, 2023. • California passed Senate Bill 253, which requires any public or private company that does business in California and has over $1 billion in annual revenue to publicly disclose, beginning in 2026, scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions released from their operations and supply chain. • California passed Senate Bill 261, which requires companies doing business in California with greater than $500 million in annual revenues to prepare, beginning in 2026, biennial reports disclosing climate-related financial risk. • New Jersey passed Assembly Bill 4791, establishing the "Resiliency and Environmental System Investment Charge Program," which creates a regulatory mechanism that enables water and wastewater utilities to recover the costs of investment in certain non-revenue producing utility system components that enhance water and wastewater system resiliency, environmental compliance such as existing and proposed requirements for PFAS, safety, and public health. Legislation was signed by the Governor and became effective on January 12, 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company uses its capital resources, including cash, primarily to (i) fund operating and capital requirements, (ii) pay interest and meet debt maturities, (iii) pay dividends, (iv) fund acquisitions, (v) fund pension and postretirement benefit obligations, and (vi) to pay federal income taxes. The Company invests a significant amount of cash on regulated capital projects where it expects to earn a long-term return on investment. Additionally, the Company operates in rate regulated environments in which the amount of new investment recovery may be limited, and where such recovery generally takes place over an extended period of time, and certain capital recovery is also subject to regulatory lag. See Item 1—Business—Regulated Businesses—Regulation and Rate Making for additional information. The Company expects to fund future maturities of long-term debt through a combination of external debt and, to the extent available, cash flows from operations. Since the Company expects its capital investments over the next few years to be greater than its cash flows from operating activities, the Company currently plans to fund the excess of its capital investments over its cash flows from operating activities for the next five years through a combination of long-term debt and equity issuances, in addition to the remaining proceeds from the sale of HOS. The remaining proceeds from the sale of HOS include receipt of payments under a secured seller promissory note, plus interest. If necessary, the Company may delay certain capital investments or other funding requirements or pursue financing from other sources to preserve liquidity. In this event, the Company believes it can rely upon cash flows from operations to meet its obligations and fund its minimum required capital investments for an extended period of time. The Company regularly evaluates and monitors its cash requirements for capital investments, acquisitions, operations, commitments, debt maturities, interest and dividends. The Company’s business is capital intensive, with a majority of this capital funded by cash flows from operations. The Company also obtains funds from external sources, primarily in the debt markets and through short-term commercial paper borrowings, and may also access the equity capital markets as needed or desired to support capital funding requirements. In order to meet short-term liquidity needs, American Water Capital Corp. (“AWCC”), the wholly owned finance subsidiary of parent company, issues commercial paper that is supported by its revolving credit facility. The Company’s access to external financing on reasonable terms may depend on, as appropriate, any or all of the following: current business conditions, including that of the utility and water utility industry in general; conditions in the debt or equity capital markets; the Company’s credit ratings; and conditions in the national and international economic and geopolitical arenas. Disruptions in the credit markets may discourage lenders from extending the terms of such commitments or agreeing to new commitments. Market disruptions may also limit the Company’s ability to issue debt and equity securities in the capital markets. 63 If these unfavorable business, market, financial and other conditions deteriorate to the extent that the Company is no longer able to access the commercial paper and/or capital markets on reasonable terms, AWCC has access to an unsecured revolving credit facility. The Company’s revolving credit facility provides $2.75 billion in aggregate total commitments from a diversified group of financial institutions. AWCC’s revolving credit facility is used principally to support its commercial paper program, to provide additional liquidity support, and to provide a sub-limit for the issuance of up to $150 million in letters of credit. The maximum aggregate principal amount of short-term borrowings authorized for issuance under AWCC’s commercial paper program is $2.60 billion. On October 26, 2023, the termination date of the credit agreement with respect to AWCC’s revolving credit facility was extended, as permitted by the terms of the credit agreement, from October 2027 to October 2028. Subject to satisfying certain conditions, the credit agreement also permits AWCC to increase the maximum commitment under the facility by up to an aggregate of $500 million and to request extensions of its expiration date for up to two one-year periods, as to which one such extension request remains. As of December 31, 2023, AWCC had no outstanding borrowings and $75 million of outstanding letters of credit under its revolving credit facility, with $2.50 billion available to fulfill its short-term liquidity needs and to issue letters of credit. The Company believes that its ability to access the debt and equity capital markets, the revolving credit facility and cash flows from operations will generate sufficient cash to fund the Company’s short-term requirements. The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity and the ability to manage its expenditures, should there be a disruption of the capital and credit markets. However, there can be no assurance that the lenders will be able to meet existing commitments to AWCC under the revolving credit facility, or that AWCC will be able to access the commercial paper or loan markets in the future on acceptable terms or at all. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of water and wastewater services and, due to the seasonality of demand, are generally greater during the warmer months. The Company’s future cash flows from operating activities will be affected by, among other things: customers’ ability to pay for service in a timely manner, economic utility regulation, inflation, compliance with environmental, health and safety standards, production costs, maintenance costs, customer growth, declining customer usage of water, employee-related costs, including pension funding, weather and seasonality, taxes, and overall economic conditions. The Company’s current liabilities may exceed current assets mainly from debt maturities due within one year and the use of short-term debt as a funding source, primarily to meet scheduled maturities of long-term debt, fund acquisitions and construction projects, as well as cash needs, which can fluctuate significantly due to the seasonality of the business and other factors. The Company addresses cash timing differences primarily through its short-term liquidity funding mechanisms. Presented in the table below is a summary of the major items affecting the Company’s cash flows from operating activities: (a) Includes provision for losses on accounts receivable, pension and non-pension postretirement benefits and other non-cash, net. Details of each component can be found on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. (b) Changes in working capital include changes to receivables and unbilled revenues, income tax receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities, accrued taxes and other current assets and liabilities, net. Details of each component can be found on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In 2023, cash flows provided by operating activities increased $766 million, primarily due to changes in deferred taxes, working capital and an increase in net income. The change in deferred taxes was driven by the settlement of the deferred tax liability in 2022 related to the Company’s New York regulated operations that was sold in the first quarter of 2022. The changes in working capital were primarily driven by $280 million of estimated tax payments for taxable gains on the sales of the Company’s Homeowner Services Group and its New York regulated operations in the first half of 2022. 64 The Company expects to make pension contributions to the plan trusts of $44 million in 2024. Actual amounts contributed could change materially from this estimate as a result of changes in assumptions and actual investment returns, among other factors. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Presented in the table below is a summary of the major items affecting the Company’s cash flows from investing activities: In 2023, cash flows used in investing activities increased $688 million as a result of increased payments for capital expenditures, as well as no assets sales in 2023 whereas 2022 had $608 million of proceeds from the sale of the Company’s New York operations. The Company continues to invest across all infrastructure categories, mainly replacement and renewal of transmission and distribution and services, meter and fire hydrants infrastructure in the Company’s Regulated Businesses, as discussed below. The Company’s infrastructure investment plan consists of both infrastructure renewal programs, where the Company replaces mains, services, meters, hydrants and valves, as needed, and major capital investment projects, where the Company constructs new water and wastewater treatment and delivery facilities to meet new customer growth and water quality regulations. The Company’s projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Presented in the table below is a summary of the Company’s capital expenditures by category: In 2023, the Company’s capital expenditures increased $278 million due to an increase across most infrastructure categories. The Company also grows its business primarily through acquisitions of water and wastewater systems. These acquisitions are generally located in geographic proximity to the Company’s existing Regulated Businesses and support continued geographical diversification and growth of its operations. Generally, acquisitions are funded initially with short-term debt, and later refinanced with long-term financing. During 2023, the Company paid $81 million to fund acquisitions, including deposits for pending acquisitions. The Company closed on 23 acquisitions of various regulated water and wastewater systems during 2023, which added approximately 18,100 water and wastewater customers. As previously noted, over the next five years the Company expects to invest between $16 billion to $17 billion, with $14.5 billion to $15 billion for infrastructure improvements in the Regulated Businesses, and the Company expects to invest between $34 billion to $38 billion over the next 10 years. In 2024, the Company expects to invest $3.1 billion, consisting of infrastructure improvements and acquisitions in the Regulated Businesses. 65 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Presented in the table below is a summary of the major items affecting the Company’s cash flows from financing activities: (a) Includes proceeds from issuances of common stock under various employee stock plans and the Company’s dividend reinvestment plan, net of taxes paid, advances and contributions in aid of construction, net of refunds, and debt issuance costs and make-whole premiums on early debt redemption. In 2023, cash flows provided by financing activities increased $188 million, primarily due to the common stock financing and issuance of long-term debt. This was partially offset by repayment in full of the short-term commercial paper obligations during the first half of 2023. The Company’s financing activities are primarily focused on funding regulated infrastructure expenditures, regulated acquisitions and payment of dividends. These activities included the issuance of long-term and short-term debt, primarily through AWCC and equity issuances from parent company. Based on the needs of the Regulated Businesses and the Company, AWCC may borrow funds or issue its debt in the capital markets and then, through intercompany loans, provide those borrowings to the Regulated Businesses and parent company. The Regulated Businesses and parent company are obligated to pay their portion of the respective principal and interest to AWCC, in the amount necessary to enable AWCC to meet its debt service obligations. Parent company’s borrowings are not a source of capital for the Regulated Businesses, therefore, parent company is not able to recover the interest charges on its debt through regulated water and wastewater rates. As of December 31, 2023, AWCC has made long-term fixed rate loans to the Regulated Businesses amounting to $7.6 billion. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, AWCC has made long-term fixed rate loans to parent company amounting to $3.4 billion. On March 3, 2023, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of an aggregate of 12,650,000 shares of parent company common stock. Upon closing of this offering, the Company received, after deduction of the underwriting discount and before deduction of offering expenses, net proceeds of approximately $1,688 million. The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to repay short-term commercial paper obligations of AWCC, the wholly owned finance subsidiary of parent company, and for general corporate purposes. On June 29, 2023, AWCC issued, in a private placement, $1,035 million aggregate principal amount of 3.625% Exchangeable Senior Notes due 2026 (the “Notes”). AWCC received net proceeds of approximately $1,022 million, after deduction of underwriting discounts and commissions but before deduction of offering expenses payable by AWCC. A portion of the net proceeds was used to repay AWCC’s commercial paper obligations and the remainder was used for general corporate purposes. See Note 11—Long-Term Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. One of the principal market risks to which the Company is exposed is changes in interest rates. In order to manage the exposure, the Company follows risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivative contracts such as treasury lock agreements. The Company also reduces exposure to interest rates by managing commercial paper and debt maturities. The Company does not enter into derivative contracts (through AWCC) for speculative purposes and does not use leveraged instruments. The derivative contracts entered into are for periods consistent with the related underlying exposures. The Company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. The Company minimizes the counterparty credit risk on these transactions by dealing only with leading, creditworthy financial institutions, having long-term credit ratings of “A” or better. 66 In November and December 2023, the Company entered into six treasury lock agreements, each with a term of 10 years, with notional amounts totaling $225 million, to reduce interest rate exposure on debt expected to be issued in 2024. These treasury lock agreements terminate in September 2024, and have an average fixed rate of 4.24%. The Company designated these treasury lock agreements as cash flow hedges, with their fair value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive gain or loss. Upon termination, the cumulative gain or loss recorded in accumulated other comprehensive gain or loss will be amortized through interest, net over the term of the new debt. During 2022 and the first half of 2023, the Company entered into 11 treasury lock agreements, each with a term of 10 years, with notional amounts totaling $300 million. The Company designated these treasury lock agreements as cash flow hedges, with their fair value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive gain or loss. In June 2023, the Company terminated the treasury lock agreements realizing a net gain of $3 million included in Other, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. No ineffectiveness was recognized on hedging instruments for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 or 2021. In February 2021, parent company and AWCC filed with the SEC a universal shelf registration statement that enables the Company to meet its capital needs through the offer and sale to the public from time to time of an unlimited amount of various types of securities, including American Water common stock, preferred stock, and other equity and hybrid securities, and AWCC debt securities, all subject to market conditions and demand, general economic conditions, and as applicable, rating status. The shelf registration statement will expire in February 2024. During 2022 and 2021, $800 million, and $1.10 billion, respectively, of debt securities were issued under this registration statement. During 2023 under this registration statement, parent company issued 12,650,000 shares of its common stock for aggregate net proceeds of approximately $1,688 million. Presented in the table below are the issuances of long-term debt in 2023: (a) This indebtedness is considered “debt” for purposes of a support agreement between parent company and AWCC, which serves as a functional equivalent of a full and unconditional guarantee by parent company of AWCC’s payment obligations under such indebtedness. See “—Issuer and Guarantor of Senior Notes” below. Presented in the table below are the retirements and redemptions of long-term debt in 2023 through sinking fund provisions, optional redemption or payment at maturity: From time to time and as market conditions warrant, the Company may engage in long-term debt retirements through make-whole redemptions, tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable alternatives. 67 Issuer and Guarantor of Senior Notes Outstanding unsecured senior notes issued by AWCC (other than the Notes) have been issued under two indentures, each by and between AWCC and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as successor to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, providing for the rights and obligations of the parties thereto and the holders of the notes issued thereunder. The Notes were issued under an indenture, by and among AWCC, parent company and U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as trustee, providing for the rights and obligations of the parties thereto and the holders of the Notes. The senior notes and the Notes have been issued with the benefit of a support agreement, as amended, between parent company and AWCC, which serves as the functional equivalent of a full and unconditional guarantee by parent company of AWCC’s payment obligations under such indebtedness. No other subsidiary of parent company provides guarantees for any of such indebtedness. If AWCC is unable to make timely payment of any interest, principal or premium, if any, on such senior notes or the Notes, parent company will provide to AWCC, at its request or the request of any holder thereof, funds to make such payment in full. If AWCC fails or refuses to take timely action to enforce certain rights under the support agreement or if AWCC defaults in the timely payment of any amounts owed to any such holder, when due, the support agreement provides that such holder may proceed directly against parent company to enforce such rights or to obtain payment of the defaulted amounts owed to that holder. As a wholly owned finance subsidiary of parent company, AWCC has no significant assets other than obligations of parent company and certain of its subsidiaries in its Regulated Businesses segment to repay certain intercompany loans made to them by AWCC. AWCC’s ability to make payments of amounts owed to holders of the senior notes and the Notes will be dependent upon AWCC’s receipt of sufficient payments of amounts owed pursuant to the terms of such intercompany loans and from its ability to issue indebtedness or otherwise obtain loans in the future, the proceeds of which would be used to fund the repayment of the senior notes and the Notes. Because parent company is a holding company and substantially all of its operations are conducted through its subsidiaries other than AWCC, parent company’s ability to fulfill its obligations under the support agreement will be dependent upon its receipt of sufficient cash dividends or distributions from its operating subsidiaries. See Note 9—Shareholders’ Equity—Dividends and Distributions, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the limitations on parent company and its subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions. Furthermore, parent company’s operating subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and, other than AWCC, have no obligation to make any payments on the senior notes or the Notes or to make available or provide any funds for such payment, other than through their repayment obligations under intercompany loans, if any, with AWCC. Based on the foregoing, parent company’s obligations under the support agreement will be effectively subordinated to all indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, lease commitments and moneys borrowed or other indebtedness incurred or issued by parent company’s subsidiaries other than AWCC. Credit Facilities and Short-Term Debt Interest rates on advances under the AWCC revolving credit facility are based on a credit spread to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) rate (or applicable market replacement rate) or base rate, each determined in accordance with Moody Investors Service’s and S&P Global Ratings’ then applicable credit rating on AWCC’s senior unsecured, non-credit enhanced debt. The facility is used principally to support AWCC’s commercial paper program, to provide additional liquidity support and to provide a sub-limit of up to $150 million for letters of credit. Indebtedness under the facility and AWCC’s commercial paper are considered “debt” for purposes of a support agreement between parent company and AWCC, which serves as a functional equivalent of a full and unconditional guarantee by parent company of AWCC’s payment obligations thereunder. Presented in the tables below are the aggregate credit facility commitments, commercial paper limit and letter of credit availability under the revolving credit facility, as well as the available capacity for each, as of December 31: (a) Total remaining availability of $2.50 billion as of December 31, 2023, was accessible through revolver draws. 68 (a) Total remaining availability of $1.50 billion as of December 31, 2022, was accessible through revolver draws. Presented in the table below is the Company’s total available liquidity as of December 31, 2023 and 2022: The weighted average interest rate on AWCC’s outstanding short-term borrowings was approximately 5.51% and 4.41%, for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Capital Structure Presented in the table below is the percentage of the Company’s capitalization represented by the components of its capital structure as of December 31: The change in the capital structure mix in 2023 is mainly attributable to the common stock issuance on March 3, 2023, and the long-term debt issuance on June 29, 2023. The proceeds from these issuances were used to repay short-term commercial paper borrowings. Debt Covenants The Company’s debt agreements contain financial and non-financial covenants. To the extent that the Company is not in compliance with these covenants, an event of default may occur under one or more debt agreements and the Company, or its subsidiaries, may be restricted in its ability to pay dividends, issue new debt or access the revolving credit facility. The long-term debt indentures contain a number of covenants that, among other things, prohibit or restrict the Company from issuing debt secured by the Company’s assets, subject to certain exceptions. Failure to comply with any of these covenants could accelerate repayment obligations. Covenants in certain long-term notes and the revolving credit facility require the Company to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated capitalization (as defined in the relevant documents) of not more than 0.70 to 1.00. On December 31, 2023, the Company’s ratio was 0.56 to 1.00 and therefore the Company was in compliance with the covenants. 69 Security Ratings Presented in the table below are long-term and short-term credit ratings and rating outlooks as of February 14, 2024, as issued by Moody’s Investors Service on January 29, 2024, and S&P Global Ratings on February 6, 2023: A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Security ratings are highly dependent upon the ability to generate cash flows in an amount sufficient to service debt and meet investment plans. The Company can provide no assurances that its ability to generate cash flows is sufficient to maintain its existing ratings. The Company does not have any material borrowings that are subject to default or prepayment as a result of the downgrading of these security ratings, although such a downgrading could increase fees and interest charges under its credit facility. As part of its normal course of business, the Company routinely enters into contracts for the purchase and sale of water, power and other fuel, chemicals and other services. These contracts either contain express provisions or otherwise permit the Company and its counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contract law, if the Company is downgraded by a credit rating agency, especially if such downgrade is to a level below investment grade, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance, which could include a demand that the Company must provide collateral to secure its obligations. The Company does not expect to post any collateral which will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and respective financing costs in those markets, may be directly affected by the Company’s securities ratings. The Company primarily accesses the debt capital markets, including the commercial paper market, through AWCC. However, the Company has also issued debt through its regulated subsidiaries, primarily in the form of mortgage bonds and tax exempt securities or borrowings under state revolving funds, to lower the overall cost of debt. Dividends and Regulatory Restrictions For discussion of the Company’s dividends, dividend restrictions and dividend policy, see Note 9—Shareholders’ Equity in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Insurance Coverage The Company carries various property, casualty, cyber and financial insurance policies with limits, deductibles and exclusions that it believes are consistent with industry standards. However, insurance coverage may not be adequate or available to cover unanticipated losses or claims. Additionally, annual policy renewals can be impacted by claims experience which in turn can impact coverage terms and conditions on a going-forward basis. The Company is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s short-term and long-term financial condition and its results of operations and cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and develop estimates, assumptions and judgments that could affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Actual results could differ from these estimates, assumptions and judgments. Management believes that the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions in matters that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Accordingly, changes in the estimates, assumptions and judgments applied to these accounting policies could have a significant impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Management has reviewed the critical accounting polices described below with the Company’s Audit, Finance and Risk Committee, including the estimates, assumptions and judgments used in their application. Additional discussion regarding these critical accounting policies and their application can be found in Note 2—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 70 Regulation and Regulatory Accounting The Company’s regulated utilities are subject to regulation by PUCs and, as such, the Company follows the authoritative accounting principles required for rate regulated utilities, which requires the Company to reflect the effects of rate regulation in its Consolidated Financial Statements. Use of this authoritative guidance is applicable to utility operations that meet the following criteria: (i) third-party regulation of rates; (ii) cost-based rates; and (iii) a reasonable assumption that rates will be set to recover the estimated costs of providing service, plus a return on net investment, or rate base. As of December 31, 2023, the Company concluded that the operations of its utilities met the criteria. Application of this authoritative guidance has a further effect on the Company’s financial statements as it pertains to allowable costs used in the ratemaking process. The Company makes significant assumptions and estimates to quantify amounts recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities. Such judgments include, but are not limited to, assets and liabilities related to regulated acquisitions, pension and postretirement benefits, depreciation rates and taxes. Due to timing and other differences in the collection of revenues, these authoritative accounting principles allow a cost that would otherwise be charged as an expense by a non-regulated entity, to be deferred as a regulatory asset if it is probable that such cost is recoverable through future rates. Conversely, the principles require the creation of a regulatory liability for amounts collected in rates to recover costs expected to be incurred in the future, or amounts collected in excess of costs incurred and are refundable to customers. For each regulatory jurisdiction where the Company conducts business, the Company assesses, at the end of each reporting period, whether the regulatory assets continue to meet the criteria for probable future recovery and regulatory liabilities continue to meet the criteria for probable future settlement. This assessment includes consideration of factors such as changes in regulatory environments, recent rate orders (including recent rate orders on recovery of a specific or similar incurred cost to other regulated entities in the same jurisdiction) and the status of any pending or potential legislation. If subsequent events indicate that the regulatory assets or liabilities no longer meet the criteria for probable future recovery or probable future settlement, the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and financial position could be materially affected. In addition, if the Company concludes in a future period that a separable portion of the business no longer meets the criteria, the Company is required to eliminate the financial statement effects of regulation for that part of the business, which would include the elimination of any or all regulatory assets and liabilities that had been recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Failure to meet the criteria of this authoritative guidance could materially impact the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company’s regulatory asset balance was $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, and its regulatory liability balance was $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively. See Note 3—Regulatory Matters in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company’s significant regulatory assets and liabilities. Accounting for Income Taxes Significant management judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities, valuation allowances and the utilization of NOL carryforwards. In accordance with applicable authoritative guidance, the Company accounts for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two-step approach, including a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. If it is not more-likely-than-not that the benefit of the tax position will be sustained on its technical merits, no benefit is recorded. Uncertain tax positions that relate only to timing of when an item is included on a tax return are considered to have met the recognition threshold. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefit to be recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company evaluates the probability of realizing deferred tax assets quarterly by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and its intent and ability to implement tax planning strategies, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. The Company also assesses its ability to utilize tax attributes, including those in the form of carryforwards, for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements. The Company records valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when it concludes that it is more-likely-than-not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Under GAAP, specifically ASC 740, Income Taxes , the tax effects of changes in tax laws must be recognized in the period in which the law is enacted. ASC 740 also requires deferred tax assets and liabilities to be measured at the enacted tax rate expected to apply when temporary differences are to be realized or settled. For the Company’s regulated entities, the change in deferred taxes are recorded as either an offset to a regulatory asset or a regulatory liability and may be subject to refund to customers. For the Company’s unregulated operations, the change in deferred taxes are recorded as a non-cash re-measurement adjustment to earnings. 71 Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including changes in income tax laws, the Company’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies and recovery of taxes through the regulatory process for the Regulated Businesses, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. The resulting tax balances as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, are appropriately accounted for in accordance with the applicable authoritative guidance; however, the ultimate outcome of tax matters could result in favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Consolidated Financial Statements and such adjustments could be material. See Note 14—Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding income taxes. Accounting for Pension and Postretirement Benefits The Company maintains noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering eligible employees of its regulated utility and shared service operations. The Company also maintains other postretirement benefit plans providing medical and life insurance to eligible retirees. See Note 2—Significant Accounting Policies and Note 15—Employee Benefits in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the description of and accounting for the defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans. The Company’s pension and postretirement benefit costs are developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions provided by the Company to its actuaries, including the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Material changes in the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions as well as fluctuations in plan assets. The assumptions are selected to represent the average expected experience over time and may differ in any one year from actual experience due to changes in capital markets and the overall economy. These differences will impact the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit expense that the Company recognizes. The primary assumptions are: • Discount Rate—The discount rate is used in calculating the present value of benefits, which are based on projections of benefit payments to be made in the future. The objective in selecting the discount rate is to measure the single amount that, if invested at the measurement date in a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments, would provide the necessary future cash flows to pay the accumulated benefits when due. • Expected Return on Plan Assets (“EROA”)—Management projects the future return on plan assets considering prior performance, but primarily based upon the plans’ mix of assets and expectations for the long-term returns on those asset classes. These projected returns reduce the net benefit costs the Company records currently. • Rate of Compensation Increase—Management projects employees’ pay increases, which are used to project employees’ pension benefits at retirement. • Health Care Cost Trend Rate—Management projects the expected increases in the cost of health care. • Mortality— Management adopted the Society of Actuaries Pri-2012 mortality base table, the most recent table developed from private pension plan experience, which provides rates of mortality in 2012 and adopted the new MP-2021 mortality improvement scale to gradually adjust future mortality rates downward due to increased longevity in each year after 2012. The discount rate assumption, which is determined for the pension and postretirement benefit plans independently, is subject to change each year, consistent with changes in applicable high-quality, long-term corporate bond indices. The Company uses an approach that approximates the process of settlement of obligations tailored to the plans’ expected cash flows by matching the plans’ cash flows to the coupons and expected maturity values of individually selected bonds. For each plan, the discount rate was developed as the level equivalent rate that would yield the same present value as using spot rates aligned with the projected benefit payments. The weighted-average discount rate assumption for determining pension benefit obligations was 5.18%, 5.58% and 2.94% at December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The weighted-average discount rate assumption for determining other postretirement benefit obligations was 5.22%, 5.60% and 2.90% at December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In selecting an EROA, the Company considered tax implications, past performance and economic forecasts for the types of investments held by the plans. The weighted-average EROA assumption used in calculating pension cost was 6.79% for 2023, 6.50% for 2022 and 6.50% for 2021. The weighted-average EROA assumption used in calculating other postretirement benefit costs was 5.00% for 2023, 3.60% for 2022 and 3.67% for 2021. 72 Presented in the table below are the allocations of the pension plan assets by asset category: Presented in the table below are the allocations of the other postretirement benefit plan assets by asset category: (a) Refer to Note 15—Employee Benefits in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the allocations of assets and the trusts which fund the other postretirement benefit plans The investments of the pension and postretirement welfare plan trusts include debt and equity securities held either directly or through mutual funds, commingled funds and limited partnerships. The trustee for the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement welfare plans uses an independent valuation firm to calculate the fair value of plan assets. In selecting a rate of compensation increase, the Company considers past experience in light of movements in inflation rates. The Company’s rate of compensation increase was 3.51% for 2023, 2022 and 2021. In selecting health care cost trend rates, the Company considers past performance and forecasts of increases in health care costs. As of January 1, 2023 , the Company’s health care cost trend rate assumption used to calculate the periodic benefit cost was 7.00% in 2023 gradually declining to 5.00% in 2031 and thereafter. As of December 31, 2023, the Company projects that medical inflation will be 6.75% in 2024 gradually declining to 5.00% in 2031 and thereafter. The Company will use a weighted-average discount rate and EROA of 5.18% and 6.79%, respectively, for estimating its 2024 pension costs. Additionally, the Company will use a weighted-average discount rate and EROA of 5.22% and 5.00%, respectively, for estimating its 2024 other postretirement benefit costs. A decrease in the discount rate or the EROA would increase the Company’s pension expense. The Company’s 2023 pension and postretirement total net benefit credit was $6 million and the 2022 pension and postretirement total net benefit credit was $47 million. The Company expects to make pension contributions to the plan trusts of $44 million in 2024; however, the actual amounts contributed could change materially from this estimate. The assumptions are reviewed annually and at any interim re-measurement of the plan obligations. The impact of assumption changes is reflected in the recorded pension and postretirement benefit amounts as they occur, or over a period of time if allowed under applicable accounting standards. Benefit Plan Amendments In December 2022, the Company amended the American Water Pension Plan (“AWPP”), a tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan, to restructure it as of December 31, 2022. The restructuring involved the spin-off of certain inactive participants from the existing AWPP into a separate tax-qualified defined benefit pension plan, the American Water Pension Plan for Certain Inactive Participants (“AWPP Inactive”). Benefits offered to the plan participants remain unchanged. Actuarial gains and losses associated with AWPP Inactive are amortized over the average remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants. The actuarial gains and losses associated with the AWPP continued to be amortized over the average remaining service period for active participants. The Company remeasured the pension plan obligation and assets to reflect the amendment for each plan as of December 31, 2022. 73 In December 2022, the Company completed plan amendments to spin-off and merge a portion of the American Water Retiree Welfare Plan, with and into the Company’s medical plan for active employees (“Active Medical Plan”), in order to repurpose the over-funded portion of the Bargained Retiree Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association (“Bargained VEBA”) trust. Benefits offered to the plan participants remain unchanged. As a result of these changes, effective December 31, 2022, the Company transferred investment assets from the Bargained VEBA into the existing trust maintained for the benefit of Active Medical Plan participants (“Active VEBA”). The transfer of these Bargained VEBA investment assets into the Active VEBA permits access to approximately $194 million of assets, as of December 31, 2022, for purposes of paying active union employee medical benefits. The Company recorded the transfer of assets as a negative contribution and therefore did not record a gain or loss, as permitted by accounting guidance. See Note 18—Fair Value of Financial Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information on accounting for the assets as investments in debt and equity securities. Revenue Recognition Revenue from the Company’s Regulated Businesses is generated primarily from water and wastewater services delivered to customers. These contracts contain a single performance obligation, the delivery of water or wastewater services, as the promise to transfer the individual good or service is not separately identifiable from other promises within the contracts and, therefore, is not distinct. Revenues are recognized over time, as services are provided. There are generally no significant financing components or variable consideration. Revenues include amounts billed to customers on a cycle basis, and unbilled amounts calculated based on estimated usage from the date of the meter reading associated with the latest customer bill, to the end of the accounting period. The amounts that the Company has a right to invoice are determined by each customer’s actual usage, an indicator that the invoice amount corresponds directly to the value transferred to the customer. Increases or decreases in the volumes delivered to customers and rate mix due to changes in usage patterns in customer classes in the period could be significant to the calculation of unbilled revenue. In addition, changes in the timing of meter reading schedules and the number and type of customers scheduled for each meter reading date would also have an effect on the unbilled revenue calculation. Unbilled revenue for the Company’s regulated utilities as of December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $193 million and $178 million, respectively. The Company also recognizes revenue when it is probable that future recovery of previously incurred costs or future refunds that are to be credited to customers will occur through the ratemaking process. The Company also has long-term, fixed fee contracts to operate and maintain water and wastewater systems for the U.S. government on military installations and facilities owned by municipal customers. Billing and revenue recognition for the fixed fee revenues occurs ratably over the term of the contract, as customers simultaneously receive and consume the benefits provided by the Company. Additionally, these contracts allow the Company to make capital improvements to underlying infrastructure, which are initiated through separate modifications or amendments to the original contract, whereby stand-alone, fixed pricing is separately stated for each improvement. The Company has determined that these capital improvements are separate performance obligations, with revenue recognized over time based on performance completed at the end of each reporting period. Losses on contracts are recognized during the period in which the losses first become probable and estimable. Revenues recognized during the period in excess of billings on construction contracts are recorded as unbilled revenues, with billings in excess of revenues recorded as other current liabilities until the recognition criteria are met. Changes in contract performance and related estimated contract profitability may result in revisions to costs and revenues and are recognized in the period in which revisions are determined. Unbilled revenue within Other as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, was $109 million and $97 million, respectively. Revenue from the Company’s former HOS business, which was sold in December 2021, was generated through various protection programs in which the Company provided fixed fee services to domestic homeowners and smaller commercial customers for interior and exterior water and sewer lines, interior electric and gas lines, heating and cooling systems, water heaters, power surge protection and other related services. Most of the contracts had a one-year term and each service was a separate performance obligation, satisfied over time, as the customers simultaneously received and consumed the benefits provided from the service. Customers were obligated to pay for the protection programs ratably over 12 months or via a one-time, annual fee, with revenues recognized ratably over time for those services. Advances from customers were deferred until the performance obligation was satisfied. 74 Accounting for Contingencies The Company records loss contingencies when management determines that the outcome of future events is probable of occurring and when the amount of the loss or a range of losses can be reasonably estimated. The determination of a loss contingency is based on management’s judgment and estimates about the likely outcome of the matter, which may include an analysis of different scenarios. Liabilities are recorded or adjusted when events or circumstances cause these judgments or estimates to change. In assessing whether a loss is reasonably possible, management considers many factors, which include, but are not limited to: the nature of the litigation, claim or assessment, review of applicable law, opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisors, and the experience gained from similar cases or situations. The Company provides disclosures for material contingencies when management deems there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or an additional loss may be incurred. The Company provides estimates of reasonably possible losses when such estimates may be reasonably determined, either as a single amount or within a reasonable range. Actual amounts realized upon settlement or other resolution of loss contingencies may be different than amounts recorded and disclosed and could have a significant impact on the liabilities, revenue and expenses recorded on the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 16—Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contingencies. Recent Accounting Standards See Note 2—Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting standards.