********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors for a description of the principal risks that we face. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, future growth prospects and stock price could suffer. Further, other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on our future results. Risk Factors Summary This summary of risks below is intended to provide an overview of the risks we face and should not be considered a substitute for the more detailed risk factors discussed immediately following this summary. Risks Relating to Our Strategic Actions • The proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care business may not be completed on the terms, structure or timeline we have announced, if at all. • We are exposed to new risks as a result of the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we are undertaking. • We may continue to experience difficulties with our integration of Hillrom or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Hillrom acquisition. • If our business strategy and development activities are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Financial Performance and Our Common Stock • Global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions, have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our operations. • Our operating results and financial condition have, and may in the future, fluctuate. • We may not achieve our financial goals. • We incurred a substantial amount of debt in connection with the Hillrom acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates have, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. • Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. • Future material impairments in the value of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets, would negatively affect our operating results. Other Risks Relating to Our Business • If we are unable to successfully introduce or monetize new and existing products or services, or fail to keep pace with changing consumer preferences and needs or advances in technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. • Issues with product quality could, among other things, have an adverse effect on our business or cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products. 9 • There is substantial competition in the product markets in which we operate and the risk of declining demand and pricing pressures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • Pandemics and other public health emergencies, or the fear thereof, have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business. • If we fail to attract, develop, retain and engage key employees, our business may suffer. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations • Segments of our business are significantly dependent on major contracts with GPOs, IDNs, and certain other distributors and purchasers. • We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and might experience business disruptions and adverse tax consequences associated with restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. • If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or for a cost-effective price or if we experience other manufacturing, sterilization, supply or distribution difficulties, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. • Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • Breaches and breakdowns affecting our information technology systems or protected information could have a material adverse effect on us. • We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. • A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters • We are subject to a number of laws and regulations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. • Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and cybersecurity issues and expanding laws could impact our business and expose us to increased liability. • If reimbursement or other payment for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the United States or in foreign countries or there are changes to policies with respect to pricing, taxation or rebates, our business could suffer. • We could be subject to fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. • If we are unable to protect or enforce our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we become subject to claims or litigation alleging infringement of the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged. • Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results. • We are party to a number of pending lawsuits and other disputes which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. • Our Amended and Restated By-Laws designate certain courts in the State of Delaware or the federal district courts of the United States will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders. 10 Risks Relating to Our Strategic Actions The proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care business may not be completed on the terms, structure or timeline we have announced, if at all. In January 2023, we announced a series of strategic actions, including, among other things, the proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care business into an independent company (the proposed spinoff) and plans to implement a simplified operating model and manufacturing footprint. While we have completed implementation of the new operating model, we may encounter challenges to executing the proposed spinoff on the terms, structure and within the timeframe we have announced, or at all. The proposed spinoff will be subject to the satisfaction of a number of customary conditions, including final approval from Baxter’s Board of Directors. The failure to satisfy any of the required conditions could delay the completion of the proposed spinoff for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all. Additionally, the proposed spinoff is complex in nature, and unanticipated developments or changes, including disruptions in general market conditions, changes in law, challenges or complexities in executing the spinoff of the two businesses or developments of viable medical, pharmacological and technological advances (as further discussed in “Other Risks Relating to Our Business If we are unable to successfully introduce or monetize new and existing products or services, or fail to keep pace with changing consumer preferences and needs or advances in technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected”) may affect our ability to complete the proposed spinoff on the terms or on the timeline we have announced, or at all. The terms and conditions of the required regulatory authorizations and consents that are granted, if any, may also impose requirements, limitations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the independent companies or impact our ability to complete the proposed spinoff on the terms or timeline we have announced, or at all. Although we intend for the proposed spinoff to be tax-free to Baxter’s stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we have initiated the preparatory restructuring, which has generated, and we expect to continue to generate, non-U.S. tax liabilities and may also generate potential impairments of deferred tax assets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the proposed spinoff will qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS ruling and tax opinion mentioned above will be based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by Baxter and the new independent company. If any of these factual representations or assumptions are, or become, untrue or incomplete in any material respect, an undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the opinion or ruling are based are materially different from the actual facts relating to the proposed spinoff, reliance on the opinion or ruling may be jeopardized. If the proposed spinoff were ultimately determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would incur a significant tax liability, while the distributions to Baxter’s stockholders would become taxable and the new company could incur income tax liabilities as well. We are exposed to new risks as a result of the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we are undertaking. Our strategic actions may not achieve their anticipated benefits, or our costs may exceed our estimates. Our businesses have begun to face, and will continue to face, material challenges in connection with the proposed spinoff and the other strategic actions we are undertaking (including the recent implementation of a simplified operating model and the ongoing simplification of our manufacturing footprint). These challenges include, without limitation, the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; appropriately allocating assets and liabilities among the companies to be separated in the proposed spinoff, particularly given the complex nature of the proposed spinoff; attracting, retaining and motivating key management and other employees; retaining existing, or attracting new, business and operational relationships, including with customers, suppliers, employees and other counterparties; maintaining our relationships with regulators; assigning customer contracts and intellectual property to each of the businesses; and potential negative reactions from the financial markets. In particular, in the last few years, we have undertaken other strategic and business transformation actions (including the recent divestiture of our BPS business, the acquisition of Hillrom and cost reduction initiatives) that have entailed changes across our organizational structure, senior leadership, culture, functional alignment, outsourcing and other areas. This poses risks in the form of personnel capacity constraints and institutional knowledge loss that has led to, and could in the future lead to, missed performance or financial targets and harm to our reputation, and these risks are heightened with the additional interdependent actions that will be needed to complete the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we are currently implementing and pursing or which we may pursue in the future. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses in connection with the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we are undertaking. These expenses have been significant, and may continue to grow, and may not yield a discernible benefit if the actions are not completed on schedule or at all. In addition, the anticipated 11 benefits of these actions are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect, and we cannot predict with certainty when the expected benefits will occur, or the extent to which they will be achieved. As a result, even if the proposed spinoff or other strategic actions are completed, they may not achieve some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational or other benefits in the expected timeframe, or at all, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, even if the proposed spinoff is completed, we cannot assure you that each separate company will be successful. Completion of the proposed spinoff will result in independent companies that are smaller, less diversified companies, with more limited businesses concentrated in their respective industries than Baxter. As a result, each company will be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. In addition, the diversification of revenues, costs and cash flows will diminish, such that each company’s results of operations, cash flows, working capital, effective tax rate and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility, and each company’s ability to fund capital expenditures and investments, pay dividends and meet debt obligations and other liabilities may be diminished. Following completion of the proposed spinoff, each company will also incur one-time and ongoing costs, including the costs of operating as independent companies, that the separated businesses will no longer be able to share. In addition, until the market has fully analyzed the values of the separate companies, the price of our common stock and common stock of the new company may experience volatility. Our common stock or the common stock of the new company may not match some holders’ investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause certain investors to sell their shares, which could in turn lead to declines in the trading price of such stock. As a result of any of the foregoing or other risks, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies may be less than what the value of our common stock would have been absent the proposed spinoff. We may continue to experience difficulties with our integration of Hillrom or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Hillrom acquisition. During 2021, we completed the acquisition of Hillrom. The success of this acquisition depends on, among other things, our ability to integrate Hillrom in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities, realizes anticipated cost and revenue synergies and achieves certain previously communicated net leverage targets without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Hillrom acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition. The integration of Hillrom into our operations is complex and time-consuming and certain aspects have taken longer than originally anticipated and have required more effort than was originally planned. Challenges associated with our integration efforts are also heightened due to the other strategic actions we are pursuing. This has resulted in, and may continue to result in, additional expenses and other difficulties as we work to complete our ongoing strategic initiatives, including challenges consolidating certain operations and functions (including regulatory and other corporate functions), integrating technologies (including differing information technology systems and processes), organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in the business cultures of the two companies, and retaining key personnel, any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the Hillrom acquisition and our ongoing strategic initiatives also disrupt our ongoing businesses and could cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with market participants, employees, regulators and others with whom we have business or other dealings. Any failure to successfully or cost-effectively integrate Hillrom could have a material adverse effect on our business and cause reputational harm. If our business strategy and development activities are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. While we remain committed to deleveraging, we expect to engage in significant business development activities over the longer term (once we have satisfied our net leverage targets), including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities, such as potential divestitures and targeted market exits as we look to optimize our product portfolio and improve our operating margins. These activities may result in substantial investment of our resources (including resources currently focused on our ongoing strategic initiatives, such as the proposed spinoff). Our success developing products, expanding into new markets and optimizing our market presence from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities or partners for acquisition, investment, alliance or 12 divestiture; competition from other companies in the industries in which we operate that are seeking similar opportunities; whether we are able to complete an acquisition, investment, alliance or divestiture on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all; the strength of the underlying technology and products of any of the other parties involved in a transaction, as well as their ability to execute their business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation related to any other party’s products or technology; and our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product, technology or research into our existing operations (or to divest such company, business, product, technology or research from our existing operations), including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process R&D projects and to maintain adequate controls over the combined operations. Certain of these activities are subject to antitrust and competition laws, which could impact our ability to pursue strategic transactions and could result in mandated divestitures in the context of proposed acquisitions. Additionally, certain divestitures could result in negative market or regulatory reactions. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may not realize the intended benefits of such activities, including that acquisition and integration or divestiture costs may be greater than expected or the possibility that the expected return on investment, synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected timeframes. For more information, see Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Financial Performance and Our Common Stock Global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions, have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our operations. General global economic downturns and macroeconomic trends, including heightened inflation, capital markets volatility, interest rate and currency rate fluctuations, and economic slowdown or recession, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, unfavorable conditions that negatively affect demand for our products and exacerbate other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section that affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Both domestic and international markets have been experiencing significant inflationary pressures in recent years and inflation rates in the U.S., as well as in other countries in which we operate, are currently expected to continue at elevated levels for the near term. In addition, the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and other central banks in various countries have raised, and may again raise, interest rates in response to concerns about inflation, which, coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, has had, and may continue to have, the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. Interest rate increases or other government actions taken to reduce inflation have resulted in, and may continue to result in, recessionary pressures in many parts of the world. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past, and these currency fluctuations have affected, and may continue to affect, the reported value of our assets and liabilities, as well as our cash flows. We have experienced significant challenges to our global supply chain in recent periods, including production delays and interruptions, increased costs and shortages of raw materials and component parts (including resins and electromechanical devices), heightened inventory levels to reduce the risk of patient supply disruption and higher transportation and labor costs, resulting from COVID-19 and other exogenous factors including significant weather events, elevated inflation levels, disruptions to certain ports of call around the world, the war in Ukraine, the conflict in the Middle East (including recent attacks on merchant ships in the Red Sea), tensions between China and Taiwan and other geopolitical events. Due to the nature of our products, which include dense consumable medical products such as IV fluids, and the geographic locations of our manufacturing, storage and distribution facilities, which often require us to transport our products long distances and which are being further consolidated in anticipation of the proposed spinoff, we may be more susceptible to increases in freight costs and other supply chain challenges than certain of our industry peers. We expect to experience some of these and other challenges related to our supply chain in future periods. These challenges, including the unavailability of certain raw materials and component parts, have also had a negative impact on our sales for certain product categories due to our inability to fully satisfy demand and may continue to have a negative impact on our sales in the future.  They have also made it increasingly difficult to model accurately our short-term and long-term financial objectives and may continue to do so in the future. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations has been affected, and could continue to be affected, if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or, in the solvency or planned capital expenditures of our customers or suppliers, or if there is deterioration in our key financial ratios or credit ratings. Current or worsening economic conditions may impact the ability of our customers (including governments) to pay for our products and services and the amount spent on healthcare generally, which could result in decreased demand for our products and services, a decline in cash flows, longer sales cycles, increased inventory levels, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could disrupt our ability to produce products. We continue to do business with foreign governments in certain countries that have 13 experienced deterioration in credit and economic conditions. While global economic conditions to date have not significantly impacted our ability to collect receivables, liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses and may also impact the stability of the U.S. Dollar, Euro, Renminbi or other currencies. Our operating results and financial condition have, and may in the future, fluctuate. Our operating results and financial condition have, and may in the future, fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year for a number of reasons. Events, such as changes to our expectations, strategy or forecasts (including as a result of evolving global macroeconomic conditions and updated expectations regarding the timing of new regulatory approvals) or even a relatively small revenue shortfall or increase in supply chain or other costs which we are unable to offset have, and may in the future, cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, nor should they be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operating results and financial condition are also subject to fluctuation from all of the risks described throughout this section. These fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our stock price. We may not achieve our financial goals. We continue to evaluate and refine both our short-term and long-term financial objectives, including our stated commitment to achieve certain net leverage targets. Our ability to achieve these targets depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Hillrom acquisition (and related cost and revenue synergy targets) while working to execute on our stated portfolio management and other ongoing strategic initiatives including the proposed spinoff. We may fail to achieve our targeted financial results if we are unsuccessful in implementing our strategies, our estimates or assumptions change or for any other reason. Our failure to achieve our financial goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We incurred a substantial amount of debt in connection with the Hillrom acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We incurred acquisition-related debt financing of $11.80 billion to fund the cash consideration for the Hillrom acquisition, refinance certain indebtedness of Hillrom and pay related fees and expenses. Our substantially increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following the acquisition has the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and has increased our borrowing costs (including as a result of the downgrades in our senior debt credit ratings since 2021). The increased level of indebtedness and our future financial performance could also reduce funds available (under our credit facilities or otherwise) for investments in product development, capital expenditures, dividend payments, acquisitions, share repurchases and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. In addition, until we achieve our commitment to reduce our indebtedness following the Hillrom acquisition, our capital allocation activities and operational flexibility is limited. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so on a timely basis or at all. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates have, and may in the future have, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. We generate the majority of our net sales and profit outside the United States. As a result, our results of operations have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or our ability to mitigate these risks. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, additional volatility as a result of inflation and other macroeconomic factors, including in emerging market countries. We are also exposed to changes in interest rates, and our ability to access the money markets and capital markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, could be impeded if market conditions are not favorable. For more information see “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7. Management's Discussion of Analysis and Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: • market perceptions of any strategic actions or other developments related to our business including, for example, the proposed spinoff; 14 • variations in our net sales, earnings or other financial results from investors’ expectations or our previously issued guidance; • departure of key personnel; • fluctuations in the results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers, including with respect to technological advances; and • the operating and stock performance of comparable companies or related industries. In addition, prices in the stock market have generally been volatile in recent years. In certain cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. As a result, the price of our common stock could also fluctuate in the future without regard to our operating performance. Future material impairments in the value of our goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets would negatively affect our operating results. We regularly review our goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for potential impairment. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews on an annual basis and whenever potential impairment indicators are present. Intangible assets subject to amortization and property, plant and equipment are reviewed for potential impairment when there is an indication that an impairment may have occurred. Adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions or our earnings forecasts, as well as changes in our strategic goals or business direction, could lead to impairment charges. In addition, we may from time to time pursue the sale of assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy, including in connection with strategic exits, such as the proposed spinoff. Such transactions could result in impairment charges if the estimated fair value of the assets, less costs to sell, is less than their related carrying amount. Material impairment charges would negatively affect our results of operations. For example, as described in more detail in Note 4 of Item 8 of this Annual Report, we recognized $510 million of long-lived asset impairment charges related to the HD business within our Kidney Care segment during 2023. Additionally, as described in more detail in Note 5 of Item 8 of this Annual Report, we recognized $2.81 billion of goodwill impairments and $332 million of indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments during 2022, both related to assets acquired in connection with our December 2021 acquisition of Hillrom. Further adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions or our earnings forecasts could lead to additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods and such charges could be material to our results of operations. For more information on the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, see “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7. Management's Discussion of Analysis and Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Risks Relating to Our Business If we are unable to successfully introduce or monetize new and existing products or services, or fail to keep pace with changing consumer preferences and needs or advances in technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. We need to successfully introduce or monetize new and existing products and services to achieve our strategic business objectives. We can provide no assurances that our new products will achieve commercial acceptance in the marketplace, or that we will be able to separately bill for new or existing services. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals have delayed, and may in the future delay or prohibit, the introduction of new products into the marketplace. We may not be able to obtain patent protection on our new products or be able to defend our intellectual property rights globally. Warranty claims and service costs relating to our new products might be greater than anticipated, and we might be required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development and other matters. In addition, the introduction of new products and services might also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products or services. Our future financial performance will also depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We might not correctly anticipate or identify trends in customer preferences or needs or might identify or react to them later than competitors do. In order to successfully introduce or monetize new and existing products and services, we must commit, and continue to commit, substantial funds, and other resources to R&D. Failure to successfully introduce new products or services in a cost-effective manner, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to the evaluation of new products or services, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business. Furthermore, product development requires substantial investment and there is inherent risk in the R&D process. A 15 successful product development process further depends on many other factors, including our ability to adapt to new technologies, demonstrate satisfactory clinical results and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. If we cannot successfully introduce new competitive products or adapt to changing technologies, our products may become obsolete and our net sales and profitability could suffer. Issues with product quality could have an adverse effect on our business or cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products, among other negative consequences. The development of new or enhanced products involves a lengthy regulatory process and is capital intensive. As a result, our ability to match our production levels and capacity to market demand is imprecise and may result in a failure to meet market demand or satisfy customer requirements for our products or, alternatively, an oversupply of inventory. Increased costs relating to freight, raw materials or component parts and difficulties hiring and retaining staff have had and may continue to have, a negative impact on product supply. Failure to meet market demand may result in customers transitioning to available competitive products, loss of market share, negative publicity, reputational damage, loss of customer confidence or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price). Our success also depends on our ability to maintain and routinely improve product quality and our quality management program. Quality management plays an essential role in meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, improving our products and services and assuring the safety and efficacy of our products. While we have a quality system that covers the lifecycle of our products, quality and safety issues have occurred, and may in the future occur, with respect to our products. For example, we have experienced certain Class I recalls related to our Novum IQ Syringe and infusion systems, SIGMA Spectrum pump and Life2000 Ventilator. New or unintended uses of our products (for example, in response to changing clinical practice) may also raise quality or safety issues. A quality or safety issue may result in negative publicity, product recalls (either voluntary or required by the FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries), adverse regulatory site inspection reports, voluntary or official action indicated classifications, warning letters, import bans or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions (which may include corporate integrity agreements), costly litigation, refusal of a government to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. See “—Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” An inability to address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, potentially leading to a loss of customer confidence in us or our current or future products, which may result in the loss of sales and difficulty in successfully launching new products. Additionally, we have made, and could in the future make, significant investments in assets, including inventory and property, plant and equipment, which relate to potential new products or modifications to existing products. Product quality or safety issues may restrict us from being able to realize the expected returns from these investments, potentially resulting in asset impairments in the future. Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods and services to our R&D, clinical and manufacturing organizations, many of whom do so on a spot basis and not pursuant to a contractual arrangement. Our ability to receive goods or services at all or on reasonable financial terms from these third parties will be impacted if they are unable or refuse to supply or service us. Moreover, we may have limited or no recourse if the goods or services are not subject to contractual terms. If we are unable to identify or secure regulatory approval for an alternative provider on reasonable terms, our ability to meet our obligations to our customers could be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our financial results and our reputation. Additionally, third-party suppliers are required to comply with our quality standards and those of applicable regulatory bodies. Failure of a third-party supplier to provide compliant raw materials, component parts or supplies, give us adequate notice of issues or help us secure all required regulatory approvals for the use of their products or services has resulted in delays, service interruptions and quality-related issues, and may do so again in the future, and may negatively impact our business results and results of operations. There is substantial competition in the product markets in which we operate and the risk of declining demand and pricing pressures could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in all of our markets from international and domestic healthcare medical products and pharmaceutical companies and providers of all sizes, and these competitors often differ across our businesses. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance and technological innovation. Competition may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our markets, launch new products or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. If our competitors respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or we do not introduce new versions or upgrades to 16 our product portfolio in response to those requirements, our products may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive. If our competitors develop more effective or affordable products or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will likely be negatively affected. For example, new developments such as pharmaceuticals that reduce the progression of chronic kidney disease into ESRD or reduce its incidence (including through weight loss), as well as innovations in technology and care delivery models, could materially adversely affect the demand for and future pricing and sale of our products and services. Furthermore, if we are forced to reduce our prices due to increased competition, our business could become less profitable. In addition, many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. As the healthcare industry consolidates and new entrants emerge, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants has become, and will continue to become, more intense. Further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. If we face an increase in costs or are unable to achieve targeted price increases because of industry consolidation or otherwise, the long-term nature of our customer contracts or for other reasons, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Demand for our products and services depends in large part on overall demand in the healthcare market. With the healthcare market’s increased focus on asset and resource efficiency, as well as reimbursement constraints and competitive dynamics, we have seen margins for some of our products decline and they may continue to do so over time. Further, the competitive pressures in our industry could cause us to lose market share unless we increase our commercial investments or reduce our prices, which could adversely impact our operating results. These factors, along with possible legislative, regulatory and other developments, might result in significant shifts in market share among the industry’s major participants, which includes us. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors in terms of new products and diversification of our product portfolio, then our market share, sales and profitability could be adversely impacted through lower volume or decreased prices. Pandemics and other public health emergencies, or the fear thereof, have had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business. The nature and extent of future impacts are uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health emergencies, including epidemics and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Pandemics or other public health emergencies have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our operations, supply chains and distribution systems, and have increased, and may continue to increase, our expenses, including due to preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments have taken and may continue to take. A pandemic or other public health emergency has adversely affected, and many continue to adversely affect, our business in many ways, including, but not limited to, the following: • During the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced significant and unpredictable reductions and increases in demand for certain of our products as healthcare customers re-prioritized the treatment of patients. Some of our products are particularly sensitive to reductions in elective medical procedures. For example, many elective procedures were suspended or postponed in our principal markets as hospital systems prioritized treatment of COVID-19 patients or otherwise were required to comply with changing government guidelines. If patients and hospital systems de-prioritize, delay or cancel elective procedures in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.  Additionally, through the pandemic, certain portions of our patient populations (including End Stage Renal Disease patients) have experienced heightened mortality levels. Demand for related products and services may not rebound to pre-pandemic levels in light of these increased mortality rates. • A significant number of our customers, suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and vendors were adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including obstacles relating to their ability to maintain the continuity of their on-site operations, which impacted demand for certain of our products and services. These impacts caused interruptions and delays in our supply chain, and may do so in the future, resulting in more expensive alternative sources of labor and materials and heightened supply chain costs. Any delay or shortage in the supply of components or materials or other operational or logistical challenges may impact our ability to satisfy consumer demand for our products in a timely manner or at all, which could harm our reputation, future sales and profitability. For example, we have experienced supply constraints for amino acid raw materials used in our parenteral nutrition products, as such materials are being used to produce 17 COVID-19 vaccines. These constraints have resulted in certain product backorders and may do so in the future. • We have experienced, and may continue to experience, a loss of sales or profitability due to delayed payments, reduced demand or capital constraints (including potential insolvency) of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers, as well as suppliers and vendors facing liquidity or other financial issues. These liquidity issues, as well as other financial issues, could be exacerbated if prolonged high levels of unemployment or loss of insurance coverage impact patients’ ability to access treatments that use our products and services. • COVID-19 adversely impacted the continued service and availability of skilled personnel necessary to run our operations (and those of our customers). Any of these and other impacts have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The scope and duration of any future public health emergency will depend on a number of factors, including the potential emergence of a new pandemic, new variants of COVID-19, the pace at which government restrictions are imposed and lifted and the extent of such restrictions, the scope of additional actions taken to mitigate the spread of disease and the availability and effectiveness and acceptance of vaccines. The effect of such a health emergency on our business will also vary based on the speed with and extent to which global markets and utilization rates for our products fully recover from the disruptions caused by such a public health emergency. The impact of these and other factors on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. Finally, to the extent COVID-19 or any future public health emergency adversely affects our operations and global economic conditions more generally, many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section may be heightened. If we fail to attract, develop, retain and engage key employees, our business may suffer. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract, develop, retain and engage key employees, including people in senior management, sales, marketing, information technology and R&D positions, as well as our ability to transfer the knowledge and expertise of our workforce to new employees as our employees retire or we otherwise experience employee turnover (including in connection with the completion of acquisitions or divestitures or the proposed spinoff). Competition for top talent in the healthcare industry can be intense, especially for experienced management and technical and professional employees, which could increase costs associated with identifying, attracting and retaining such individuals. Our ability to recruit, develop, retain and engage such talent will depend on a number of factors, including hiring practices of our competitors, compensation and benefits (as may be impacted by any financial performance challenges), work location, work environment (including our competitors’ policies regarding remote or hybrid work arrangements), the market’s perception of our ongoing strategic initiatives, including the proposed spinoff, and industry economic conditions. Further, a lack of employee engagement could lead to loss of productivity and increased employee burnout, turnover, absenteeism, product quality incidents and decreased customer and patient satisfaction. If we cannot effectively recruit, develop, retain and engage qualified employees, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Risks Relating to Our Business Operations Segments of our business are significantly dependent on major contracts with GPOs, IDNs, and certain other distributors and purchasers. A portion of our U.S. hospital sales and rentals are made pursuant to contracts with hospital GPOs. At any given time, we are typically at various stages of responding to bids, negotiating and renewing expiring GPO agreements. Failure to be awarded certain of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, including product sales and service and rental revenue. In addition, we have faced and continue to face challenges related to increasing costs associated with these agreements (associated with ongoing supply chain challenges and inflation), which have negatively impacted our revenues and may continue to do so in the future. Our participation in these agreements often requires increased discounting or restrictions on our ability to raise prices, and failure to participate or to be awarded these agreements might result in a reduction of sales to the member hospitals. In addition, in recent years, select market participants have shown an increased focus on individual GPO members negotiating directly with manufacturers on committed contracts. IDNs and health systems, when negotiating directly with manufacturers, often request additional discounts or other enhancements. Further, certain other distributors and purchasers have similar processes to the GPOs and IDNs and failure to be included in agreements with these other purchasers could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and might experience business disruptions and adverse tax consequences associated with restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. Portions of our business have been, and may in the future be, the subject of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives. For example, we recently divested our BPS business and have implemented a simplified operating model and we continue to work toward simplifying our manufacturing footprint and completing the proposed spinoff. While we are undertaking these actions, as well as any future initiatives, with the goal of realizing potential efficiencies, we may not be successful in achieving efficiencies and cost reduction benefits we expect in full or at all. Further, such benefits might be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures might be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful or sustainable, we might undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans might be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions, if our restructuring and realignment efforts and our cost reduction activities prove ineffective. These actions, the resulting costs, and potential delays or potential lower than anticipated benefits might also impact our foreign tax positions and might require us to record tax reserves against certain deferred tax assets in our international business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or for a cost-effective price or if we experience other manufacturing, sterilization, supply or distribution difficulties, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely affected. The manufacture of our products requires, among other things, the timely supply or delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and raw materials. We manufacture our products in approximately 60 principal manufacturing locations. We acquire our components, raw materials and other requirements for manufacturing from many suppliers and vendors in various countries, including sometimes from ourselves for self-supplied requirements. We endeavor, either alone or working closely with our suppliers, to ensure the continuity of our inputs and supplies, but we cannot guarantee these efforts will always be successful. Further, while efforts are made to diversify certain of our sources of components and raw materials, in certain instances there is only a sole source or supplier with no acceptable alternatives yet identified and, as applicable, qualified. Additionally, we obtain certain components and materials on a spot basis from third party suppliers with whom we do not have contractual arrangements. For most of our components and raw materials for which a single source or supplier is used, alternative sources or suppliers may exist, but we have made a strategic determination to use the single source or supplier. Although we carry strategic inventory and maintain insurance to help mitigate the potential risk related to supply disruption, such measures may not be sufficient or effective. A reduction, interruption or suspension in supply, other supply chain issues, including those due to the revocation of distribution facilities’ licenses or as a result of our ongoing strategic initiatives, and our inability to quickly develop acceptable alternative sources for such supply could adversely affect our ability to manufacture, distribute and sell our products in a timely or cost-effective manner and could prevent us from satisfying obligations under one or more of our customer contracts or arrangements, which could result in significant failure to supply penalties. We have faced, and may in the future face, difficulties obtaining supplies of key materials, such as electromechanical components, active ingredients for pharmaceuticals and resins, due to supply chain disruptions and global pandemics. Moreover, changes in regulation, world trade policies, international taxes and government-to-government relations and issues with export and import activities could negatively impact our ability to distribute products within a country and across countries. See “—Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” Additionally, our success depends upon the availability and quality of our products and the underlying raw materials and component parts. The medical products and pharmaceutical industries are competitive and subject to complex market dynamics and varying demand levels. These levels vary in response to economic conditions, regulatory requirements, seasonality, natural disasters, wars, acts of terrorism, pandemics, epidemics and other matters. Significant increases in the cost of raw materials, sub-assemblies or materials used in the production of our products that cannot be recovered through increased prices of our products (or the unavailability of those raw materials, sub-assemblies or production materials) have adversely affected our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and may continue to do so in the future. There can be no assurance that the marketplace will support higher prices or that such prices and productivity gains will fully offset any commodity cost increases in the future. From time to time, we enter into fixed price supply contracts with respect to raw material purchases. Future decisions not to enter into fixed price supply contracts may result in increased cost volatility, potentially adversely impacting our profitability. Volatility in the demand for our products or our costs of energy, transportation, freight, raw materials and component parts and other supply, manufacturing, distribution and warehousing or storage costs have adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our business, results 19 of operations, financial condition and cash flows and have prevented, and may continue to prevent, suppliers from providing goods and services to us on reasonable terms or at all. See also “Risks Relating to Our Financial Performance and Our Common Stock—Global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions, have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our operations.” Many of our products are difficult to manufacture. This is due to the complex nature of manufacturing devices and pharmaceuticals, including biologics, as well as the strict regulatory regime governing our manufacturing operations. Variations in the manufacturing process may result in production failures which could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in a quality or safety issue of the type discussed in the “Risk Factors” section. We rely heavily on a limited number of providers of transport services for reliable and secure point-to-point transport of our products to our customers and patients and for tracking of these shipments, and from time to time we require warehousing for our products. If any of these providers were to encounter delivery performance issues such as loss, damage or destruction of any systems or machines, it would be costly to replace such systems or machines in a timely manner and such occurrences may damage our reputation and lead to decreased demand for our products and increased cost and expense to our business. Some of our products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility or stored at a single storage site. Additionally, some of our manufacturing facilities are located in the same geographic area. Loss or damage to, or closure of, a manufacturing facility or storage site due to a natural disaster, such as we experienced as a result of Hurricane Maria, a pandemic, such as COVID-19, war or acts of terrorism or otherwise could adversely affect our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of key products or deliver products to meet customer demand or contractual requirements, which may result in a loss of revenue and other adverse business consequences, including those identified in the paragraphs above. We may be unable to transfer manufacturing of the relevant products to another facility or location in a cost-effective or timely manner, if at all. This potential inability to transfer production could occur for several reasons, including, but not limited to, a lack of necessary relevant manufacturing capability at another facility, or the regulatory requirements of FDA or other governmental regulatory bodies. Such an event could materially negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, several of our manufacturing facilities are leased and we may not be able to renew leases on favorable terms or at all. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis (if at all) to replace production capacity in the event we lose manufacturing capacity or products are otherwise unavailable. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Some of our products require sterilization prior to sale or distribution, and we utilize both Baxter-owned and third-party facilities for this process. If an event occurs that results in damage to or closure, whether temporarily or permanent, of one or more of these facilities, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize the relevant products at prior levels or at all, and a third party may not be available on a timely basis (if at all) to replace sterilization capacity. For example, in 2021, our facility in Mountain Home, Arkansas entered into a Consent Administrative Order with the Arkansas Division of Environmental Quality relating to certain air emissions control technology used to reduce ethylene oxide emissions from sterilization equipment. Although the events giving rise to the Consent Administrative Order only caused a temporary pause in operations, these events or other disruptions of manufacturing or sterilization processes that we or third parties may experience, whether due to a lack of capacity, environmental, regulatory or compliance issues (including evolving regulatory requirements) or otherwise, could result in product shortage, unanticipated costs, loss of revenues, operational restrictions, additional capital expenditure requirements, litigation and damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The long-term effects of climate change are difficult to predict and may be widespread. The impacts of climate change may include physical risks (such as water scarcity, rising sea levels or frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, cyclones and typhoons), social and human effects (such as population dislocations or harm to health and well-being), compliance costs and transition risks (including due to regulatory or technology changes), shifts in market trends (for example if customers increasingly prioritize purchasing products that are sustainably made and that can be reused or recycled) and other adverse effects. Such impacts, such as damage to manufacturing facilities, local infrastructure and utilities (including as a 20 result of Hurricane Maria) have disrupted, and may in the future disrupt, our supply chain and manufacturing operations by adversely affecting our ability to procure goods or services required for the operation of our business at the quantities and levels we require due to impairment of the availability and increases in the cost of certain products, materials, commodities and energy. For example, material or sustained increases in the price of oil have had an adverse impact on the cost of many of the plastic materials or resins we use to make and package our products, as well as our transportation/freight costs. Further, the impacts of climate change, particularly severe weather events and droughts, have negatively impacted, and may in the future negatively impact, our ability to obtain material energy and water sources and other resources, including employee availability and access to shipping routes. Any of these outcomes may, in turn, result in customers transitioning to available competitive products, loss of market share, negative publicity, reputational damage, loss of customer confidence or other negative consequences, such as a decline in stock price. Further, any perceived increase in the potential of severe weather events and business interruption may put an upward pressure on the cost of our risk insurance premiums, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, the increasing concern over climate change has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, more local, state, regional, federal and global legal and regulatory requirements relating to climate change, including regulating greenhouse gas emissions and related reporting requirements (and the establishment of enhanced internal processes or systems to track them), alternative energy policies and sustainability initiatives. Legislation and regulations have been, and are expected to continue to be, enacted and promulgated in the United States, United Kingdom, EU or in any other jurisdictions in which we do business that impose more stringent restrictions and requirements than our current legal or regulatory obligations (as a result of our publicly disclosed corporate responsibility goals or otherwise), we may experience disruptions in, or increases in the costs associated with research, development, sourcing, manufacturing and distributing our products. Additionally, rising climate change concerns have led to and could continue to lead to additional regulation that could increase our compliance costs. As a result, any such regulatory changes could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, companies across all industries are facing increasing scrutiny from investors, regulators, and other stakeholders related to their ESG commitments, performance, and disclosures, including related to climate change, diversity and inclusion, and governance standards. Investor advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, lenders, investment funds, and other influential investors are increasingly focused on companies’ ESG commitments (including our corporate responsibility goals), performance, and disclosures, and in recent years have placed increasing importance on social costs and related implications of their investments. Additionally, organizations that provide information to investors on corporate governance and related matters have developed ratings processes for evaluating companies on their respective approaches to ESG matters, which are increasingly being employed by investors, lenders, and customers to inform their investment, financing, or purchasing decisions. A failure to adequately meet stakeholder expectations, which may differ or conflict, may result in the loss of business, reputational impacts, diluted market valuation, an inability to attract customers, and an inability to attract and retain top talent. Breaches and breakdowns affecting our information technology systems or protected information, including from cyber security breaches and data leakage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and competitive position. We rely upon information technology systems and infrastructure, including services provided by our partners and third parties, to support our business, products and customers. For example, we routinely rely on technology systems and infrastructure in the collection, use, storage and transfer, disclosure and other processing of voluminous amounts of protected information, including personal data, protected health information, and sensitive data (of patients, employees, customers and third parties) as well as confidential, business, financial, and other sensitive information (collectively, “Protected Information”). We also rely on systems for manufacturing, customer orders, shipping, regulatory compliance and various other matters. Certain of our products and systems collect Protected Information regarding patients and their therapies and some are internet enabled or connect to our systems for maintenance and other purposes. The acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021 increased the number of these products and systems within our portfolio. Some of our products connect to the internet, hospital networks, electronic medical record systems or electronic health record systems. Further, we expect that the breadth and complexity of our information and technology systems and infrastructure will increase as we expand our product offerings to utilize and generate data analytics and potentially artificial intelligence (which create emerging enterprise risks, including but not limited to cybersecurity, monitoring, and oversight). The continuing evolution of technology we use, including cloud-based computing and data hosting as well as artificial intelligence, and reliance on third parties, whom may also use cloud-based computing and data hosting or artificial intelligence tools, create 21 additional opportunities for the unintentional, intentional, unauthorized or unlawful disclosure, exposure, dissemination, loss, alteration, access or destruction of Protected Information stored or processed in our devices, systems, servers, infrastructure and products (collectively, “Technology”). Security threats, including cyber and other attacks, have become very sophisticated, frequent and adaptive. Our Technology is vulnerable to breakdown, interruption, cyber and other security attacks, system malfunction, unauthorized access, inadvertent exposure or disclosure of information, theft and other events. Third-party systems that we rely upon are also vulnerable to the same risks and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. Any such vulnerability could compromise our Technology and could expose Protected Information to unauthorized third parties and/or cause temporary or permanent loss or unavailability of such Protected Information. In addition, our Technology may cause product functionality issues that could result in risk to patient safety, field actions or product recalls. We, like other large multi-national companies, have experienced cyber incidents in the past and may experience them in the future which have exposed and may continue to expose vulnerabilities in our information technology systems. Although the prior incidents have not had a material effect on our business and we have invested and continue to invest in the protection of data and Technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts (i) have prevented or will prevent future breakdowns, attacks, breaches in our Technology, cyber incidents or other incidents or (ii) ensure compliance with all applicable cybersecurity and privacy laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that host or process Protected Information on our behalf. Any failure to protect against such incidents or non-compliance with applicable security and privacy laws, regulations and standards could lead to substantial and material regulatory fines and penalties, business disruption, reputational harm, financial loss or litigation, as well as other damages. Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property from any of the foregoing may have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. See “Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” As our customers and FDA and other global regulators, including data protection authorities or supervisory bodies, become more sensitive to risks related to cybersecurity, our ability to meet certain information technology safety standards could affect our products’ marketability and competitiveness. We could also suffer strained relationships with customers, business partners, physicians and other healthcare professionals, increased costs (for security measures, remediation or otherwise), litigation (including class actions and stockholder derivative actions) or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price) as a result of breaches, cyber and other security attacks, industrial espionage, ransomware, phishing scams, malware or other cyber incidents, which could compromise our system infrastructure and/or lead to data leakage, including at our third-party providers or other business partners. Although we maintain insurance related to cybersecurity risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance will cover a particular cyber incident at issue or that such coverage will be sufficient. In addition, significant implementation issues may arise as we continue to consolidate and outsource certain computer operations and application support activities, including as a result of our ongoing business transformation activities and in connection with the ongoing Hillrom integration and our other ongoing strategic initiatives, including the proposed spinoff). Further, a number of our employees have fully remote or hybrid work arrangements, which, among other things, expose us to heightened risks related to our information technology systems and networks, including cyber attacks, computer viruses, malicious software, security breaches and telecommunication failures, both for systems and networks we control directly and for those that employees and third-party developers rely on to work remotely. We also face all of the same risks listed above and other heightened risks when acquiring a company, in particular if we need to transition or implement certain processes or controls with the acquired company. For example, as we continue to integrate Hillrom into our business, we have identified certain potential areas of vulnerability as we transition its information technology systems, products and processes to our processes and controls, including with respect to cybersecurity and privacy matters. While we are working to fully address those vulnerabilities (consistent with our processes and controls) we do not believe any of them present any material risks to our business or operations (including with respect to our Technology). Any such vulnerabilities (or any others) if unidentified or unremediated could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include changes in exchange controls and other governmental actions, loss of business in government and public tenders that are held annually in many cases, increasingly complex labor environments, availability of raw materials and component parts, changes in taxation, tariffs, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of U.S. or local laws, dependence on a few government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic and political instability, monetary or currency volatility or 22 instability (including as it relates to the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, the Renminbi and currencies in emerging market countries), disputes between countries, trade relationships and conflicts, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, and disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic region regardless of cause, including natural disaster, pandemic, power loss, cyber attack, data breach, war, terrorism, riot, labor disruption, civil insurrection or social unrest. Failure to comply with, or material changes to, the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The escalating global economic competition and trade tensions among the United States, China and Russia could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Although we have been able to mitigate some of the impact from increased duties imposed by these countries (through petitioning the governments for tariff exclusions and other mitigations), the risk remains of additional tariffs and other kinds of restrictions. Tariff exclusions awarded to us by the United States Government require annual renewal, and policies for granting exclusions could shift. The United States, China and Russia could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect our access to the markets. See also “Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters—We are subject to a number of laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment.” More generally, several governments have raised the possibility of policies to induce “re-shoring” of supply chains, less reliance on imported supplies and greater national production. For example, the Chinese government has issued a series of policies in the past several years to promote local medical devices or suggest government procurement budgets for local products. Another example is the stronger “Buy American” requirements in the U.S. (pursuant to a U.S. executive order on January 25, 2021). If such steps triggered retaliation in other markets, such as by restricting access to foreign products by their government-owned healthcare systems the outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Some of our employees both in and outside of the United States work under collective bargaining agreements or national trade union agreements or are subject to works councils. Although we have not recently experienced any significant work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. For example, a collective bargaining agreement for one of our U.S. manufacturing facilities is scheduled to expire in January 2025. Our inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at any of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Relating to Legal and Regulatory Matters We are subject to a number of laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the United States. Laws and regulations, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act), which aim to decrease costs through comparative effectiveness research and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies. Compliance with these and similar regulations could result in pricing pressure or negatively impact the demand for our products. In a number of situations, even though specific laws and regulations may not directly apply to us, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. The manufacture, distribution, marketing and use of our products are subject to extensive regulation and scrutiny by FDA and other regulatory authorities globally. Any new product must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly, and time-consuming procedures mandated by FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. The same testing and procedures sometimes apply to our products that are up for authorization or renewal or are subject to changes in laws or regulations. For example, our medical devices that are sold or distributed in the EU have to comply with the EU Medical Device Regulation that entered into force in May 2021. This Medical Device Regulation currently provides a staggered phase-in period for manufacturers to comply with related regulations through December 2028. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member states to meet certain quality system and safety requirements and ongoing product monitoring 23 responsibilities and obtain a “CE” marking (i.e., a mandatory conformity marking for certain products sold within the European Economic Area) for their products. Various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws implementing the European Medical Device Regulations which, if incurred, could have a material adverse impact on portions of our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes to current products may be subject to vigorous review, including additional FDA 510(k) and other regulatory submissions, and approvals or the time needed to secure approvals are not certain. We may not be able to obtain such approvals on the timing or conditions we expect, or at all. Our facilities must be approved and licensed prior to production and remain subject to inspection from time to time thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, has resulted in, and could in the future result in, adverse inspection reports, voluntary or official action indicated, warning letters, import bans, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, reputational damage, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. The failure of our suppliers to comply with regulations could also adversely affect segments of our business as regulatory actions taken by FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or modifications. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales. Our business is also subject to risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation, regulations and trade agreements relating to the materials we import, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, other charges or restrictions on imports and the nature of materials that can be used in our products, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import materials used in our products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials and component parts must be purchased, additional workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See also “Risks Relating to Our Business Operations—We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally.” The sales, marketing and pricing of products and relationships that medical device and pharmaceutical companies have with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny by federal, state and foreign government agencies. Compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute, False Claims Act, Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (including as these laws relate to off-label promotion of products) and other healthcare-related laws, as well as competition and export and import laws, is under increased focus by the agencies charged with overseeing such activities. The Department of Justice (the “DOJ”) and the SEC are focused on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), particularly as it relates to the conduct of medical product and pharmaceutical companies. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Healthcare professionals in many countries are employed by the government and consequently may be considered government officials. Foreign governments are also focused on examining medical product and pharmaceutical companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships with healthcare providers and competitive practices generally. The laws and standards governing the promotion, pricing, sale and reimbursement of our products and those governing our relationships with healthcare providers and governments, including the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, are complicated, subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. Compliance with these and similar laws (or failure to comply with these laws) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Additionally, failure to comply with applicable laws or our internal policies has resulted, and may result in the future, in the departure or termination of key personnel, which has the potential of disrupting our operations or future performance. Furthermore, governments have chosen (as in the case of the Chinese government) or may choose to prioritize anti-corruption efforts in the healthcare sector as part of their law enforcement activities. We are also subject to environmental laws, which are becoming more stringent throughout the world. For example, the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) regulates the use of ethylene oxide for sterilization of medical devices and is increasingly focused on reducing emissions from the ethylene oxide sterilization process, which has increased our costs of operations and necessitated changes to our manufacturing plants and processes. Additionally, the European Economic Area (the “EEA”) is phasing out the use of Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate in the immediate packaging of medicinal products and in medical devices, and the EEA is also considering regulations on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, fluorinated gases and Polyvinyl Chloride. Other governments globally have, or are considering, limiting or prohibiting the use of certain chemicals, including Polyvinyl Chloride and Diethyl 24 Phthalate. These regulatory changes could adversely impact our ability to manufacture or supply certain products in the EEA. Other environmental laws may have similar consequences for us or our suppliers, or result in liability to us. Additionally, the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control and the Bureau of Industry and Security at the U.S. Department of Commerce administer laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non- U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business or making investments in certain countries, or with governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings with and/or provide humanitarian donations to countries subject to comprehensive sanctions and/or embargoes, including Afghanistan, Belarus, Cuba, Russia, Syria and Venezuela. These dealings represent an insignificant amount of our combined net sales and income but expose us to an increased risk of operating in these countries, including foreign exchange risks or restrictions or limitations on our ability to access funds generated in these jurisdictions or the risk of violating applicable sanctions or regulations, which are complex and subject to frequent change. Our ethics and compliance programs, training, monitoring and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees that violate these laws. Violations or allegations of violations of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment or exclusion from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The laws and regulations discussed above are broad in scope and subject to evolving interpretations and changes, which may be violated unknowingly, could require us to incur substantial costs regarding compliance or to alter our sales and marketing practices and may subject us to enforcement actions or litigation, and of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We cannot predict with certainty what laws, regulations and healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented, or what the ultimate effect of healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. For more information related to ongoing government investigations, see Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information on regulatory matters currently affecting us, including quality-related matters, see “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and cybersecurity issues and expanding laws could impact our business and expose us to increased liability. As a global company, we are subject to global data privacy and cybersecurity laws, regulations and codes of conduct that apply to our businesses. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing legal and regulatory requirements and frameworks in the United States and in other countries that govern not only the collection, use, storage, security, transfer, disclosure and other processing of protected health information and personal and sensitive data, but also the timely disclosure of cybersecurity incidents. Further, new and emerging digital and technology laws are gradually being implemented globally and have a strong interplay with privacy and cybersecurity rules, which contributes to the complexity of the regulatory landscape. In the United States, we are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended (HIPAA), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA) and California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) as well as other new and emerging state laws. HIPAA imposes stringent data privacy and security requirements, and the regulatory authority has imposed significant fines and penalties on organizations found to be out of compliance. The CCPA provides consumers with a private right of action against companies that have a security breach due to a lack of appropriate security measures. In addition, to the HHS and the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) enforcement activity has become more intense, with higher fines, in areas related to heath data that are out of scope of HIPAA. Further, we are subject to the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) and the NIS2 Directive, an EU wide cybersecurity legislation, which will be fully in force in 2024. The GDPR imposes stringent EU data protection requirements and provides for significant penalties for noncompliance, including heightened fines as compared to prior years. Governmental bodies are increasingly imposing cyber-incident disclosure regulations with differing criteria for what incidents must be reported as well as the timelines in which to report them. We or our third-party providers and business partners may also be subjected to audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, and noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in substantial and material fines or class action litigation. If reimbursement or other payment for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the United States or in foreign countries, including through the implementation or repeal of government-sponsored 25 healthcare reform or other similar actions, cost containment measures, or there are changes to policies with respect to pricing, taxation or rebates, our business could suffer. Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by both public and private payers. These payers include Medicare, Medicaid, private healthcare insurers in the United States and foreign governments and third-party payers outside the United States. Our work with government payers carries various risks inherent in working with government entities and agencies, including government reporting and auditing, additional regulatory oversight, mandated contractual terms, failure of government appropriations and other complex procedural requirements. Public and private payers have challenged, and are expected to continue to challenge, prices charged for medical products and services. Such downward pricing pressures from any or all of these payers may result in an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world continue to use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such as price controls, the formation of public contracting authorities, product formularies, which are lists of recommended or approved products, and competitive tenders, which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payers. In much of Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia, governments provide healthcare at low cost to patients and control their expenditures by various means, such as purchasing products through public tenders, collective purchasing, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public tenders and limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products. For example, China has been implementing volume-based procurement policies, a series of centralized reforms being instituted in China on both a national and regional basis that has resulted in significant price cuts for pharmaceuticals and medical consumables. Additionally, austerity measures or other reforms by foreign governments may limit, reduce or eliminate payments for our products and adversely affect both pricing flexibility and demand for our products. In addition, operations within our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment increase our exposure to risks related to reimbursement as certain portions of that business directly bill various government agencies. The Healthcare Reform Act includes several provisions which impact our businesses in the United States, including increased Medicaid rebates and an expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program, which provides certain qualified entities with discounts on the purchase of drugs for outpatient use and an excise tax on the sale of certain drugs. The Healthcare Reform Act reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals and other providers, which may cause us to experience downward pricing pressure. Certain portions of the Healthcare Reform Act could negatively impact the demand for our products, and therefore our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In 2019, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services launched a new kidney health initiative. The CMS published the final ESRD Treatment Choices (ETC) mandatory payment model in 2020. The ETC launched in 30% of dialysis clinics across the country on January 1, 2021 and creates payment incentives for the greater use of home dialysis and kidney transplants for those new to and already on dialysis. CMS also announced the implementation of four voluntary payment models with the stated goal of helping healthcare providers reduce the cost and improve the quality of care for patients with late-stage chronic kidney disease and ESRD. In addition, the 2022 Physician Fee Schedule issued by CMS has extended coverage of certain Medicare telehealth services through December 31, 2023 and the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2023 further extended such coverage through December 31, 2024. While the availability of telehealth services can improve access to medical care, increased reliance on, and utilization of, telemedicine for delivery of healthcare services increases the risk of privacy and data breaches and cyberattacks. These proposed regulatory changes in kidney health policy and reimbursement may substantially change the U.S. end stage renal disease market and could increase demand for our peritoneal dialysis products, necessitating significant multi-year capital expenditures in order to meet that demand. However, the impact of such changes and related expenses are difficult to estimate in advance. In addition, a substantial portion of our revenues is dependent on federal healthcare program reimbursement, and any disruptions in federal government operations, including a federal government shutdown or failure of the U.S. government to enact annual appropriations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Additionally, disruptions in federal government operations may negatively impact regulatory approvals and guidance that are important to our operations and create uncertainty about the pace of upcoming healthcare regulatory developments or approvals. As a result of these and other measures, including future measures or reforms that cannot be predicted, reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time and in ways that may be adverse 26 to us. We cannot predict the impact of these pressures and initiatives, or any negative effects of any additional regulations that may affect our business. We could be subject to fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. Portions of our business are subject to stringent laws and regulations at the federal or state levels governing the participation of durable medical equipment suppliers and independent diagnostic testing facilities in federal and state healthcare programs. From time to time, the U.S. government seeks additional information related to our claims submissions, and in some instances government contractors perform audits of payments made to us under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal healthcare programs. On occasion, these reviews identify overpayments for which we submit refunds. At other times, our own internal audits identify the need to refund payments. We believe the frequency and intensity of government audits and review processes has grown, and we expect this will continue, due to increased resources allocated to these activities at both the federal and state Medicaid level, and greater sophistication in data review techniques. In addition, our business contracts with foreign and U.S. federal, state and local government entities are subject to specific rules, regulations and approvals applicable to government contractors. Our failure to comply with these could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with these entities, civil fines and damages, criminal prosecution and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as possible recoupment of any overpayments related to such violations. While we believe that our practices materially comply with applicable state, federal and foreign requirements, the requirements might be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even if inadvertent, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to protect or enforce our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we become subject to claims or litigation alleging infringement of the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged. Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the United States and in other countries. We cannot guarantee that our pending patent applications, or any future patent applications, will result in issued patents, our patents issued or licensed will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, our patents will not be found to be invalid or the intellectual property rights of others will not prevent us from selling certain products or including key features in our products. The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third parties. An unfavorable litigation outcome in any of these types of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the ability to market products, which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. Third parties may know, discover or independently develop equivalent proprietary information or techniques, or they may gain access to our trade secrets or publicly disclose our trade secrets. Although our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners are generally subject to confidentiality or similar agreements to protect our confidential and proprietary information, these agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Furthermore, our intellectual property, proprietary technology and sensitive company data is potentially vulnerable to loss, damage and misappropriation from system malfunction, computer viruses and unauthorized access to our data or misappropriation or misuse thereof by those with permitted access and other events. While we have invested to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other data, and continue to work diligently in this area, there can be no assurance that our precautionary measures have prevented or will prevent future breakdowns, breaches, cyber incidents or other events. See also “Risks Relating to Our Business Operations—Breaches and breakdowns affecting our information technology systems or protected information, including from cyber security breaches and data leakage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial 27 condition, cash flows, reputation and competitive position.” Any of the events referenced above could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results. Changes to the tax laws in the United States or other countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, the Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (the Inclusive Framework) has put forth two proposals—Pillar One and Pillar Two—that revise the existing profit allocation and nexus rules and ensure a minimal level of taxation, respectively. On December 12, 2022, the EU member states agreed to implement the Inclusive Framework’s global corporate minimum tax rate of 15%, and various countries both within and outside the EU have enacted new laws implementing Pillar Two or have draft legislation proposed for adoption. The OECD continues to release additional guidance on the two-pillar framework, with widespread implementation in 2024. We are continuing to evaluate the potential impact of the Inclusive Framework on future periods, pending legislative adoption by individual countries, which could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate, income tax expense and cash flows. Taxing authorities audit us from time to time and may disagree with certain positions we have taken in respect of our tax liabilities. Our tax liabilities are affected by many factors, including the amounts we charge in intra-company transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items, which are subject to the use of assumptions and judgment. Because we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States, cross border transactions among our affiliates are a significant part of the manner in which we operate. Although we believe that we transact intra-company business in accordance with arm’s-length principles, tax authorities may disagree with our intra-company charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result, including in connection with their review of the restated financial statements we have filed as part of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, we may not accurately predict the outcome of these audits and, as a result, the actual outcome of these audits may have an adverse impact on our financial results. For more information on ongoing audits, see Note 14 in Item 8 of this Annual Report. We are party to a number of pending lawsuits and other disputes which may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are party to a number of pending lawsuits, settlement discussions, mediations, arbitrations and other disputes, some of which are set forth in Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, in the future we may be party to additional lawsuits, disputes or other matters, including patent, product liability or other lawsuits. These current and future matters may result in a loss of patent protection, reduced net sales, incurrence of significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. Given the uncertain nature of litigation and other disputes generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in our current matters. In view of these uncertainties, the outcome of these current matters may result in charges in excess of any established reserves, and, to the extent available, liability insurance. We also continue to be self-insured with respect to product liability claims. The unavailability or inadequacy of third-party insurance coverage for current or future liability claims could increase our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Protracted litigation and other disputes, including any adverse outcomes, may have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws designate certain courts in the State of Delaware or the federal district courts of the United States will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws (Bylaws) provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located in the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to bring (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim for or based on a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director or officer or other employee of the company to the company or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or our Certificate of Incorporation or these 28 Bylaws, as either may be amended from time to time, or (iv) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or (v) any other action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine or that is otherwise an “internal corporate claim” as defined in Section 115 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The exclusive forum provisions of our Bylaws are not a waiver of, and do not relieve person or entity of duties to comply with, federal securities laws including those specifying the exclusive jurisdiction of federal courts under the Exchange Act and concurrent jurisdiction of federal and state courts under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions of our Bylaws described above. The choice of forum provision may result in increased costs for investors to bring a claim. Further, the choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, other employees, or stockholders, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, other employees, or stockholders. However, the enforceability of similar forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation or bylaws have been challenged in legal proceedings. If a court were to find the exclusive choice of forum provision contained in our Bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 33 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Description of the Company, Recent Strategic Actions and Business Segments Baxter International Inc. is a global medical technology with approximately 60,000 employees worldwide who are engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products, digital health solutions and therapies used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, ambulatory surgery centers, doctors’ offices and patients at home under physician supervision. Our global footprint and the critical nature of our products and services, which are sold in over 100 countries as of December 31, 2023, play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. In mid-2022, our Board of Directors authorized a strategic review of our business portfolio, with the goal of increasing stockholder value. As part of that review process, we identified and evaluated a range of potential strategic actions, including opportunities for sales and other separation transactions. In January 2023, following the completion of that review, we announced the following planned strategic actions that are intended to enhance our operational effectiveness, accelerate innovation and drive additional stockholder value: (a) a proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care business into an independent publicly traded company focused on kidney care and organ support (the proposed spinoff), (b) our development of a new operating model to simplify our operations and better align our manufacturing and supply chain to our commercial activities and (c) our pursuit of strategic alternatives for our BioPharma Solutions (BPS) business. Proposed Separation of Kidney Care Business We are working to complete the proposed separation of our Kidney Care business in the interest of establishing an independent company focused on kidney care and organ support. While we continue to evaluate all strategic options in the interest of maximizing stockholder value, we continue to progress towards our current target of July 2024 for completion of the proposed spinoff of this business. In both 2023 and 2022 we generated $4.45 billion of combined net sales from our Kidney Care segment, representing approximately 30% and 31%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. We intend for the proposed spinoff to qualify as tax-free to Baxter and our stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The proposed spinoff is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including final approval from our Board of Directors, the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement on Form 10, receipt of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ruling or related tax opinions from counsel, satisfactory completion of financing arrangements, consultations with works councils and other employee representative bodies and any necessary regulatory approvals. We incurred $225 million of pre-tax costs related to the proposed spin-off during 2023 and we expect to continue to incur significant separation-related costs in 2024. Additionally, we expect to incur dis-synergies following our completion of the proposed spinoff transaction due to the reduced size of our company and, as a result, we will need to undertake actions to ensure that our cost structure is appropriate to support our remaining businesses. There can be no guarantees that the proposed spinoff will be completed in the manner or over the timeframes described above, or at all. Implementation of New Operating Model and Resulting Segment Change Our reportable segments were previously comprised of the following geographic segments related to our legacy Baxter business: Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia Pacific), and a global segment for our Hillrom business. As discussed below under “Recent Strategic Actions,” in the third quarter of 2023, we completed the implementation of a new operating model intended to simplify and streamline our operations and better align our manufacturing and supply chain to our commercial activities. Under this new operating model, our business is comprised of four segments: Medical Products and Therapies, Healthcare Systems and Technologies (formerly referred to as our Hillrom segment), Pharmaceuticals and Kidney Care (which would become an independent publicly traded company following the completion of the proposed spinoff transaction). Our segment reporting was changed during the third quarter of 2023 to align with our new operating model and prior period segment disclosures have been revised to reflect the new segments. The Medical Products and Therapies segment includes sales of our sterile IV solutions, infusion systems, administration sets, parenteral nutrition therapies and surgical hemostat, sealant and adhesion prevention products. The Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment includes sales of our connected care solutions and 34 collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring systems and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices and advanced equipment for the surgical space, including surgical video technologies, precision positioning devices and other accessories. The Pharmaceuticals segment includes sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, inhaled anesthesia and drug compounding. The Kidney Care segment includes sales of chronic and acute dialysis therapies and services, including peritoneal dialysis (PD), hemodialysis (HD), continuous renal replacement therapies (CRRT) and other organ support therapies. Other sales not allocated to a segment primarily include sales of products and services provided directly through certain of our manufacturing facilities and royalty income under a business development arrangement that ended in early 2023 when we acquired the related product rights. For financial information about our segments, see Note 18 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sale of BPS Business On September 29, 2023, we completed the sale of our BPS business and received cash proceeds of $3.96 billion from that transaction. The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our BPS business, including the $2.88 billion pre-tax gain ($2.59 billion net of tax) from the sale of that business and the related cash proceeds received, are reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We intend to use substantially all of the after-tax proceeds from this transaction to repay certain of our debt obligations, including $514 million of commercial paper borrowings and $2.28 billion of long-term debt that we repaid during the fourth quarter of 2023. See Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Financial Results Our global net sales totaled $14.81 billion in 2023, an increase of 2% over 2022 on a reported basis and 3% on a constant currency basis. International sales totaled $7.81 billion in 2023, an increase of 3% compared to 2022 on a reported basis and 4% on a constant currency basis. Sales in the United States totaled $7.00 billion in 2023, an increase of 1% compared to 2022.  Refer to the Net Sales discussion in the Results of Operations section below for more information related to changes in net sales on a constant currency basis. Net income (loss) attributable to Baxter stockholders totaled $2.66 billion, or $5.25 per diluted share, in 2023.  Net income (loss) attributable to Baxter stockholders in 2023 included special items which increased net income by $1.18 billion, or $2.33 per diluted share. See our special items subsection, in the Results of Operations section below, for information about special items for all periods present. Net income (loss) from continuing operations totaled $(69) million, or $(0.15) per diluted share, in 2023. Net income (loss) from continuing operations in 2023 included special items which adversely impacted our results by $1.40 billion, or $2.75 per diluted share. Our financial results included research and development (R&D) expenses totaling $667 million in 2023, which reflects our focus on balancing investments to support our new product pipeline with efforts to optimize overall R&D spending (including with respect to the maintenance of our portfolio). While we continue to face continuing global macroeconomic challenges, our financial position remains strong, with operating cash flows from continuing operations totaling $1.70 billion in 2023. We have continued to execute on our disciplined capital allocation framework, as discussed in the "Business Strategy" section in Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is designed to optimize stockholder value creation through reinvestment in our businesses, dividends and share repurchases, as well as acquisitions and other business development initiatives and debt repayments, consistent with our previously stated commitment to achieve our net leverage targets. Capital expenditures totaled $692 million in 2023 as we continue to invest across our businesses to support future growth, including additional investments in support of new and existing product capacity expansions. Our investments in capital expenditures in 2023 were focused on projects that improve production efficiency, enhance our quality systems and optimize manufacturing capabilities to support our business growth. We also continued to return value to our stockholders. During 2023, we paid cash dividends to our stockholders totaling $586 million. 35 During 2024, we expect to continue to incur significant separation-related costs related to the proposed spinoff, which may adversely impact our earnings and operating cash flows. FACTORS AFFECTING OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Supply Constraints and Global Economic Conditions We have experienced significant challenges to our global supply chain in recent periods, including production delays and interruptions, increased costs and shortages of raw materials and component parts (including resins and electromechanical devices) and higher transportation costs, resulting from the pandemic and other exogenous factors including significant weather events, elevated inflation levels, increased interest rates, disruptions to certain ports of call and access to shipping ports around the world, the war in Ukraine, the conflict in the Middle East (including recent attacks on merchant ships in the Red Sea), tensions between China and Taiwan and other geopolitical events. Due to the nature of our products, which include dense consumable medical products such as IV fluids, and the geographic locations of our manufacturing facilities, which often require us to transport our products long distances, we may be more susceptible to increases in freight costs and other supply chain challenges than certain of our industry peers. While we have seen some improvements in the availability of certain component parts and improved pricing in certain raw materials, these challenges have not completely subsided and may continue to have a negative impact on our supply chain in future periods. These challenges, including the unavailability of certain raw materials and component parts, have also had a negative impact on our sales for certain product categories (including those acquired in our December 2021 acquisition of Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. (Hillrom)) due to our inability to fully satisfy demand and may continue to have a negative impact on our sales in the future. Our results of operations are also affected by macroeconomic conditions and levels of business confidence. The war in Ukraine, the conflict in the Middle East (including recent attacks on merchant ships in the Red Sea), tensions between China and Taiwan and the sanctions and other measures being imposed in response to these conflicts (and the potential for escalation of these conflicts) have increased the levels of economic and political uncertainty and we continue to closely monitor the developing situations. With respect to the war in Ukraine and our business in Russia, we have substantially completed our wind down efforts related to our business in Russia in a manner that we structured to be compliant with all applicable U.S. and European Union sanctions and regulations. While these countries do not constitute a material portion of our business, a significant escalation or expansion of economic disruption or the current scope of these conflicts could have an adverse effect on our business in the region. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and epidemics/pandemics. COVID-19 had, and it or any other future public health crisis could in the future have an adverse impact on, among other things, our expenses, operations, supply chains and distribution systems. Over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, our business was impacted by shifting healthcare priorities and significant volatility in the demand for our products, and any resurgence of the pandemic or any new public health crisis could again impact healthcare priorities and cause volatility in the demand for our products. The existence of high inflation rates in the United States and in many of the countries where we conduct business has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher interest rates, shipping costs, labor costs and other costs and expenses. Additionally, adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates have increased our costs of sourcing certain raw materials in some jurisdictions. We have experienced and may continue to experience inflationary increases in manufacturing costs and operating expenses, and we may not be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers in a timely manner or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and results of operations. Inflation and general macroeconomic factors have caused certain of our customers to reduce or delay orders for our products and services and could cause them to do so in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. As a medical products company, our operations and many of the products manufactured or sold by us are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government agencies, both within and outside the United States. These regulations, as described in "Government Regulation" in Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, require that we obtain specific approval from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and non-U.S. regulatory authorities before we can market and sell most of our products in a particular country. Failure to obtain or maintain those approvals or clearances could have a material adverse impact on our business (including with respect to our ability to compete in the product markets in which we currently operate). Furthermore, FDA in the United States, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in Europe, the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) in China and other 36 government agencies, inside and outside of the United States, administer requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of our products. Our failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to various actions, including warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For further discussion, please refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RECENT BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ASSET ACQUISITIONS Zosyn On March 22, 2022, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc. to acquire the rights to Zosyn, a premixed frozen piperacillin-tazobactam product, in the U.S. and Canada. Zosyn is used for the treatment of intra-abdominal infections, nosocomial pneumonia, skin and skin structure infections, female pelvic infections and community-acquired pneumonia. Under the terms of the acquisition, we paid the acquisition price of $122 million and received specified intellectual property, including patent rights, in the first quarter of 2022 and received additional intellectual property, including the product rights to Zosyn, in the first quarter of 2023. Under the arrangement, we received profit sharing payments from sales of Zosyn until the product rights transferred to us in March 2023. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our acquisition of the rights to Zosyn. Hillrom On December 13, 2021, we completed our acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of Hillrom for a purchase price of $10.48 billion. Including the assumption of Hillrom's outstanding debt obligations, the enterprise value of the transaction was $12.84 billion. Hillrom was a global medical technology leader whose products and services help enable earlier diagnosis and treatment, optimize surgical efficiency, and accelerate patient recovery while simplifying clinical communication and shifting care closer to home. Hillrom made those outcomes possible through digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices, advanced equipment for the surgical space and more, delivering actionable, real-time insights at the point of care. In 2023 and 2022 our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment (formerly our Hillrom segment) generated net sales of $3.01 billion and $2.94 billion, respectively. During 2022, we also recognized $2.81 billion of goodwill impairments and $332 million of indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments related to goodwill and trade name intangible assets that arose from the Hillrom acquisition. See Notes 3, 5, 6 and 18 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about the Hillrom acquisition, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, Hillrom acquisition financing arrangements and our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment results, respectively. PerClot On July 29, 2021, we acquired certain assets related to PerClot Polysaccharide Hemostatic System (PerClot), including distribution rights for the U.S. and specified territories outside of the U.S., from CryoLife, Inc. for an upfront purchase price of $25 million and the potential for additional cash consideration of up to $36 million, which had an acquisition-date fair value of $28 million, based upon regulatory and commercial milestones. PerClot is an absorbable powder hemostat indicated for use in surgical procedures, including cardiac, vascular, orthopedic, spinal, neurological, gynecological, ENT and trauma surgery as an adjunct hemostat when control of bleeding from capillary, venous, or arteriolar vessels by pressure, ligature, and other conventional means is either ineffective or impractical. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of PerClot. 37 Transderm Scop On March 31, 2021, we acquired the rights to Transderm Scop (TDS) for the U.S. and specified territories outside of the U.S. from subsidiaries of GlaxoSmithKline for an upfront purchase price of $60 million including the cost of acquired inventory and the potential for additional cash consideration of $30 million, which had an acquisition-date fair value of $24 million, based upon regulatory approval of a new contract manufacturer by a specified date. We previously sold this product under a distribution license to the U.S. institutional market. TDS is indicated for post-operative nausea and vomiting in the U.S. and motion sickness in European markets. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of TDS. Caelyx and Doxil On February 17, 2021, we acquired the rights to Caelyx and Doxil, the branded versions of liposomal doxorubicin, from a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson for specified territories outside of the U.S for $325 million in cash. We previously acquired the U.S. rights to this product in 2019. Liposomal doxorubicin is a chemotherapy medicine used to treat various types of cancer. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of Caelyx and Doxil. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Our presentation of percentage changes in net sales at constant currency rates, which is computed using current period local currency sales at the prior period’s foreign exchange rates, is a non-GAAP financial measure. This measure provides information about growth (or declines) in our net sales as if foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior period and the current period. We believe that the non-GAAP measure of percent change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the U.S. GAAP measure of percent change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding and facilitate a fuller analysis of our results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CONSOLIDATED NET SALES 1 Emerging markets include sales from our operations in Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia (except for Japan). 2 Rest of world includes sales from our operations in Western Europe, Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. 3 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information about our use of that measure. Foreign currency adversely impacted net sales by 1 percentage point during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Turkish Lira, Chinese Renminbi, Australian Dollar, Japanese Yen and the Canadian Dollar, partially offset by the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro and Mexican Peso. Our acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021 favorably impacted net sales by 23 percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period. Foreign currency adversely impacted net sales by 5 percentage points during the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, British Pound, Turkish Lira, Australian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Chinese Renminbi. 38 NET SALES BY SEGMENT Medical Products and Therapies Our Medical Products and Therapies segment includes sales of our sterile IV solutions, infusion systems, administration sets, parenteral nutrition therapies and surgical hemostat, sealant and adhesion prevention products. 1 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information about our use of that measure. Medical Product and Therapies segment net sales increased 4% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. Infusion Therapies and Technologies net sales increased 4% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. Sales performance in 2023 reflected strong demand for our infusion systems and administration sets, as well as growth in IV solutions and international nutrition compounding, partially offset by lower sales of parenteral nutrition products in the U.S. as compared with the prior year period. Advanced Surgery net sales increased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period, driven by continued recovery in surgical procedures, partially offset by temporary supply constraints, the exit of a product distribution arrangement and a comparison against prior year periods that benefited from competitor supply constraints. Foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted net sales by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. 1 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information about our use of that measure. Medical Product and Therapies segment net sales remained flat for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period. Infusion Therapies and Technologies net sales decreased 1% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period. Sales performance in 2022 reflected lower sales of infusion pumps, sales headwinds in China driven by COVID-related lockdowns and lower sales of vitamins resulting from ongoing supply constraints. Supply chain constraints, including constraints related to the availability of semiconductor components and other components used in the production of our infusion pumps, adversely impacted sales of infusion pumps. Those items were offset by increased demand for IV administration sets and solutions, reflecting a recovery in hospital administration rates and surgical procedures and lower growth in the U.S. for our parenteral nutrition therapies and related products, including multi-chamber bags. Foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted net sales by 4% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period. Advanced Surgery net sales increased 2% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period, driven by a continued recovery in surgical procedures, particularly in Europe, and benefits from competitor supply constraints. Foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted net sales by 6% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period. 39 Healthcare Systems and Technologies Our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment includes sales of our connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring systems and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices and advanced equipment for the surgical space, including surgical video technologies, precision positioning devices and other accessories. 1 Sales growth at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further information. Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment net sales increased 3% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. Care and Connectivity Solutions net sales increased 1% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period, driven by international demand and sales generated from recent product launches in the U.S., partially offset by lower rental revenues and lower capital spending in the U.S. reflecting the macroeconomic environment in 2023. Front Line Care net sales increased 6% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by increased demand for our cardiology products, patient monitoring systems and  physical assessment tools. Performance in the current year benefited from backlog reductions due to improved availability of component parts used in certain of our products. 1 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information about our use of that measure. NM - Not Meaningful The Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment was added in connection with our acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 were adversely impacted by supply chain constraints, particularly related to components used in our Front Line Care product offerings, hospital budget constraints and delays in product installations for Care and Connectivity Solutions resulting from limitations on hospital access due, in part, to staffing challenges experienced by those customers. The net sales amounts for 2021 reflect sales over the 18-day period from the Hillrom acquisition date through year-end. 40 Pharmaceuticals Our Pharmaceuticals segment includes sales of specialty injectable pharmaceuticals, inhaled anesthesia and drug compounding. 1 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information about our use of that measure. Pharmaceuticals segment net sales increased 6% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. Injectables and Anesthesia net sales increased 3% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period, primarily due to growth in our U.S. injectable products, driven by our launches of Zosyn, following the transfer of the related product rights to us in April 2023, Bendamustine and Norepinephrine, partially offset by lower sales of inhaled anesthesia products. Foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted net sales by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. Drug Compounding net sales increased 10% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period, driven by increased demand for our international pharmacy compounding services. Foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted net sales by 2% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. 1 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information about our use of that measure. Pharmaceuticals segment net sales decreased 7% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period. Injectables and Anesthesia net sales decreased 6% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period, primarily due to a 4% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes as compared to the prior year period. Net sales were also adversely impacted by increased competition from new market entrants and supply constraints impacting the production of certain molecules. Those items were partially offset by increased international sales of inhaled anesthesia products. Drug Compounding net sales decreased 9% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by a 9% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes. 41 Kidney Care Our Kidney Care segment includes sales of products used in PD, HD, CRRT and other organ support therapies (OSTs). 1 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for additional information about our use of that measure. Kidney Care segment net sales were flat for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year. Chronic Therapies net sales decreased 1% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year. Sales performance in the current year was primarily due to lower sales in China, driven by government-based procurement initiatives and the impact of COVID-19 on that country’s renal patient population, and the termination of distribution agreements in the U.S, offset by patient growth in PD, pricing initiatives and recent government tender awards in EMEA. Foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted net sales by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. Acute Therapies net sales increased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year, driven by strong demand for our CRRT offerings. Sales growth in 2023 was adversely impacted by a comparison against a prior year period that included strong COVID-related demand for our CRRT offerings during the first quarter. Foreign currency exchange rates adversely impacted net sales by 1% for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the prior year period. 1 Percent change in net sales at constant currency rates is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the section entitled “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for further information. Kidney Care segment net sales decreased 5% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year. Chronic Therapies sales decreased 4% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year. The decrease in 2022 was driven by a 6% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes and non-renewals of certain low margin customer contracts, particularly in Western Europe, partially offset by global patient growth and $28 million of incremental revenue from a customer that did not meet its contractual minimum purchase requirements. Acute Therapies net sales decreased 10% for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the prior year. The decrease in 2022 was driven by lower COVID-related demand for our CRRT product offerings and a 4% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior year period. Other During the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we earned $87 million, $177 million and $140 million, respectively, of revenues that were not attributable to our reportable segments. In the current and prior year periods, those other sales primarily represent revenues earned by certain of our manufacturing facilities from contract manufacturing activities and royalty income under a business development arrangement. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the prior year period reflects lower contract manufacturing volume and the termination of the royalty arrangement following our acquisition of the rights to the underlying product in April 42 2023. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the prior year period was primarily driven by increased contract manufacturing revenue and royalty income from a business development arrangement entered into in March 2022. Special Items Management believes that providing the separate impact of the following items on our results in accordance with U.S. GAAP may provide a more complete understanding of our operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of our results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Intangible asset amortization expense is identified as a special item to facilitate an evaluation of current and past operating performance and is consistent with how management and our Board of Directors assess performance. Additional special items are identified because they are highly variable, difficult to predict and of a size that may substantially impact our reported results of operations for the period. 43 The following table provides a summary of our special items and the related impact by line item on our consolidated results of operations for 2023, 2022 and 2021. 44 1 Our results in 2023 included long-lived asset impairment charges of $267 million related to the HD business within our Kidney Care segment, comprised of (i) a $190 million impairment charge related to certain manufacturing equipment, operating lease right-of-use assets and HD equipment leased to customers and (ii) a $77 million impairment charge related to a developed technology intangible asset. Our results in 2022 included long-lived asset impairment charges related to assets acquired in our December 2021 acquisition of Hillrom, comprised of (i) a $2.81 billion goodwill impairment and (ii) $332 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets. We also recognized $12 million of developed technology intangible asset impairments during 2022. Refer to Notes 4 and 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the impairments. Long-lived asset impairments presented within this special item do not include impairments of long-lived assets related to restructuring actions, which are presented within the business optimization special item described in footnote 2 below. 2 Our results in 2023 and 2022 were impacted by costs associated with our execution of programs to optimize our organization and cost structure. These restructuring and other business optimization costs included actions related to our current implementation of a new operating model intended to simplify and streamline our operations and better align our manufacturing and supply chain to our commercial activities, our integration of Hillrom, the decision to close one of our U.S.-based manufacturing facilities this year, which resulted in a $243 million noncash impairment of property, plant and equipment, rationalization of certain other manufacturing and distribution facilities and transformation of certain general and administrative functions. Our results in 2023 and 2022 and 2021 included business optimization charges of $534 million, $225 million, $114 million, respectively. Refer to Note 12 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these charges and related liabilities. 3 Our results in 2022 included charges of $44 million related to warranty and remediation activities arising from two field corrective actions on certain of our infusion pumps. 4 Our results in 2023 included $19 million of integration-related costs, primarily related to our integration of Hillrom, offset by a $19 million benefit from changes in the estimated fair values of contingent consideration liabilities. Our results in 2022 included $213 million of acquisition and integration-related items, which reflected $93 million of integration-related costs and $159 million of incremental cost of sales from the fair value step-ups on acquired Hillrom inventory that was sold in 2022, partially offset by a $39 million benefit from changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. Our results in 2021 included acquisition, integration and related financing expenses of $236 million. This included acquisition, integration and related financing expenses for our acquisition of Hillrom and the acquisition of the rights to Caelyx and Doxil for specified territories outside of the U.S. These expenses were partially offset by benefits from changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding business and asset acquisitions. 5 Our results in 2023, 2022 and 2021 included $48 million, $48 million and $42 million, respectively, of incremental costs to comply with the European Union's medical device regulations for previously registered products, which primarily consist of contractor costs and other direct third-party costs. We consider the adoption of these regulations to be a significant one-time regulatory charge and believe that the costs of initial compliance for previously registered products over the implementation period are not indicative of our core operating results. 6 Our results in 2023 and 2022 included $225 million and $7 million of separation-related costs, primarily reflecting costs of external advisors supporting our activities to prepare for the proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care segment. We also incurred $17 million and $5 million of additional separation-related costs in 2023 and 2022, respectively, related to the sale of our BPS business that are reported in discontinued operations and are not presented in the table above. 7 Our results in 2023 included $7 million of net costs from certain legal matters. These costs included $13 million, including related legal fees, related to matters involving alleged violations of the False Claims Act related to a now-discontinued legacy Hillrom sales line and alleged injury from environmental exposure, partially offset by $6 million of proceeds received, net of related legal fees, from a settlement related to an intellectual property dispute. Our results in 2021 included legal fees of $13 million associated with claimants alleging injuries as a result of proximity to one of our plants. 8 Our results in 2021 included charges of $31 million for investigation and related costs for matters associated with our previously announced investigation of foreign exchange gains and losses. Refer to Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these charges. 9 Our results in 2022 included a loss of $54 million under an arrangement to divest certain product rights for an amount that is less than our cost of those product rights, which was triggered by U.S. and European Union regulatory approvals of the related products. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about the related transactions. 10 Our results in 2022 included a loss of $21 million related to our deconsolidation of a foreign subsidiary, including the derecognition of a related noncontrolling interest, upon its liquidation in December 2022 that was completed in connection with our legal entity rationalization activities. 11 Our results in 2022 included a curtailment gain of $11 million related to an announced change for active non-bargaining participants in our U.S. Hillrom pension plan. Refer to Note 13 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding this curtailment gain. 12 Our results in 2022 included a charge of $65 million for cumulative translation adjustments (CTA) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a result of the substantial liquidation of our operations in Argentina. 13 Our results in 2023 included $49 million of net pre-tax losses from non-marketable investments in several early-stage companies, consisting of $52 million of noncash impairment write-downs, partially offset by a $3 million gain from the sale of an investment. 14 Our results in 2021 included a loss of $5 million on the early extinguishment of the $2.40 billion debt assumed as part of the Hillrom acquisition. 15 Our results in 2023 included a $5 million net income tax benefit from internal reorganization transactions, primarily related to the proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care segment, and a $9 million valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amount of a deferred tax asset for a tax basis step-up related to previously enacted Swiss tax reform legislation to reflect our current estimate of its recoverability. Our results in 2022 included a $25 million valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amount of a deferred tax asset for a tax basis step-up related to previously enacted Swiss tax reform legislation to reflect our current estimate of its recoverability. Our results in 2021 included a $58 million income tax benefit related to a tax-deductible foreign statutory loss on an investment in a foreign subsidiary and an $18 million income tax benefit related to a change in U.S. foreign tax credit regulations, partially offset by a $22 million income tax expense related to an unfavorable court ruling for an uncertain tax position. 45 16 This item reflects the income tax impact of the special items identified in this table. The tax effect of each special item is based on the jurisdiction in which the item was incurred and the tax laws in effect for each such jurisdiction. COSTS AND EXPENSES Gross Margin and Expense Ratios Gross Margin The gross margin ratio was 33.6%, 34.9% and 38.9% for the years ended 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The special items identified earlier in this section had an unfavorable impact on gross margin ratio of 7.6 percentage points in both 2023 and 2022 and 3.5 percentage points in 2021. Refer to the Special Items caption earlier in this section for additional detail. Excluding the impact of special items, the gross margin ratio decreased 1.3 percentage points in 2023 compared to 2022 and increased 0.1 percentage points in 2022 compared to 2021. The decrease in 2023 was primarily due to the adverse cost impacts of raw materials inflation driving higher manufacturing costs and higher bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans, partially offset by manufacturing initiatives. The increase in 2022 was due to a favorable product mix that was primarily driven by our acquisition of Hillrom, lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans, lower U.S. customer rebates and $28 million of incremental revenue from a customer that did not meet its contractual minimum purchase requirements, partially offset by raw materials inflation and, to a lesser extent, increased supply chain costs. SG&A The SG&A expense ratio was 26.6% in both 2023 and 2022 and 23.4% in 2021. The special items identified earlier in this section had an unfavorable impact on the SG&A expense ratio of 4.1, 3.9 and 2.1 percentage points in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to the Special Items caption earlier in this section for additional detail. Excluding the impact of special items, the SG&A expense ratio decreased 0.2 percentage points in 2023 compared to 2022 and increased 1.4 percentage points in 2022 compared to 2021. The decrease in 2023 was primarily due to savings from restructuring actions implemented in recent periods, partially offset by higher bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans. The increase in 2022 was primarily due to the acquisition of Hillrom and increased outbound freight costs, partially offset by lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans. R&D The R&D expense ratio was 4.5%, 4.2% and 4.4% for the years ended 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The special items identified earlier in this section had an unfavorable impact on the R&D expense ratio of 0.1 percentage points both in 2023 and 2022 and had no impact on the R&D expense ratio in 2021. Refer to the Special Items caption earlier in this section for additional detail. Excluding the impact of special items, the R&D expense ratio increased 0.3 percentage points in 2023 compared to 2022 and decreased 0.3 basis points in 2022 compared to 2021. The increase in 2023 was driven by increased project-related expenditures, particularly related to the connected care portfolio in our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment, and higher bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans. The decrease in 2022 reflected lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans, partially offset by an increase in R&D spend following the Hillrom acquisition. 46 Business Optimization Items In recent years, we have undertaken actions to transform our cost structure and enhance operational efficiency. These efforts have included restructuring the organization, optimizing our manufacturing footprint, R&D operations and supply chain network, employing disciplined cost management, and centralizing and streamlining certain support functions. The costs of these actions consisted primarily of employee termination costs, implementation costs, contract termination costs and asset impairments. We incurred restructuring charges of $534 million, $225 million and $114 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In 2023, $111 million of our restructuring charges, consisting of employee termination costs, were related to the implementation of our previously announced new operating model intended to simplify and streamline our operations. In addition, $267 million of the restructuring charges, consisting of $243 million of long-lived asset impairment charges, $14 million of other asset write-downs and $10 million of employee termination costs, were related to our decision to cease production of dialyzers at one of our manufacturing facilities in connection with our initiatives to streamline our manufacturing footprint and improve our profitability. In 2022, $85 million of our restructuring charges were related to integration activities for the Hillrom acquisition, consisting of $55 million of employee termination costs, $22 million of contract termination and other costs and $8 million of asset impairments. For the year ended December 31, 2021, $37 million and $12 million, respectively, of restructuring charges, consisting of employee termination costs, were related to global programs to simplify and streamline our supply chain and finance functions. We currently expect to incur additional pre-tax costs, primarily related to the implementation of business optimization programs, of approximately $50 million through the completion of initiatives that are currently underway. We continue to pursue cost savings initiatives and, to the extent further cost savings opportunities are identified, we would incur additional restructuring charges and costs to implement business optimization programs in future periods. Refer to Note 12 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our business optimization programs. Goodwill Impairments We assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. We recognize a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. We acquired Hillrom on December 13, 2021 and recognized $6.83 billion of goodwill and $6.03 billion of other intangible assets, including $1.91 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets, in connection with that acquisition. During the third quarter of 2022, we performed trigger-based impairment tests for each of the reporting units within our Hillrom segment (currently referred to as our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment), as well as the indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of trade names, that we acquired in connection with the Hillrom acquisition. We performed those tests as of September 30, 2022 due to (a) current macroeconomic conditions, including the rising interest rate environment and broad declines in equity valuations, and (b) reduced earnings forecasts for our three Hillrom reporting units, driven primarily by shortages of certain component parts used in our products, raw materials inflation and increased supply chain costs. Those goodwill impairment tests resulted in total pre-tax goodwill impairment charges of $2.79 billion in the third quarter of 2022. In connection with our annual goodwill impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of 2022, we performed quantitative impairment tests for all our reporting units and recorded an additional $27 million goodwill impairment related to our Global Surgical Solutions reporting unit (now combined with our previous Patient Support Systems reporting unit in our Care and Connectivity Solutions reporting unit). No goodwill impairments were recorded for our remaining reporting units in connection with our annual goodwill impairment tests because the fair values of those reporting units exceeded their net book values. Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding these goodwill impairment charges, as well as information about related indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges. Further adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions or our earnings forecasts could lead to additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods and such charges could be material to our results of operations. For further discussion, refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 47 Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was income of $28 million in 2023, an expense of $36 million in 2022 and income of $6 million in 2021. The income in 2023 was comprised of gains from changes in the fair values of contingent consideration arrangements and proceeds from a settlement related to an intellectual property dispute. In 2022, we recognized a loss of $54 million under an arrangement to divest certain product rights for an amount that was less than our cost of those product rights, which was triggered by U.S. and European Union regulatory approvals of the related products. Refer to Note 3 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about the related transactions. Additionally, we recognized a loss of $21 million related to the deconsolidation of a foreign subsidiary, including the derecognition of a related noncontrolling interest, upon its liquidation in December 2022 that was completed in connection with our legal entity rationalization activities. Those losses were partially offset by gains of $39 million from net decreases in the estimated fair values of contingent consideration liabilities. In 2021, we recognized $6 million of gains from net decreases in the estimated fair values of contingent consideration liabilities. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net was $442 million, $395 million and $193 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in 2023 was driven by higher interest rates on our floating rate debt, partially offset by net repayments in the current year periods and higher interest income in 2023. The increase in 2022 was primarily driven by higher average debt outstanding in connection with the Hillrom acquisition, partially offset by acquisition bridge facility commitment fees recognized in 2021 and higher interest income in 2022. We expect that our net interest expense will decrease in future periods as a result of debt repayments during the fourth quarter of 2023 and planned debt repayments during the first half of 2024 using the proceeds we received from the recent sale of our BPS business. Refer to Note 6 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of the components of interest expense, net for 2023, 2022 and 2021. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net was expense of $51 million, $12 million and $41 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The net expense in 2023 was primarily driven by foreign exchange losses and non-marketable investment impairments, partially offset by pension and other postretirement benefits (OPEB) and increases in the fair value of marketable equity securities. The net expense in 2022 was primarily due to the reclassification of a cumulative translation loss from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings due to the substantial liquidation of our operations in Argentina, partially offset by pension and OPEB benefits, a pension curtailment gain and net increases in the fair value of marketable equity securities. The net expense in 2021 was primarily driven by foreign exchange losses, pension and OPEB costs and a loss on debt extinguishment. Income Taxes Our effective income tax rate was 33.0%, (0.2)% and 7.4% in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The special items identified above impacted our effective tax rate by 12.0 percentage points, (19.8) percentage points and (7.4) percentage points in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to the Special Items caption earlier in this section for additional detail. Our effective income tax rate can differ from the 21% U.S. federal statutory rate due to a number of factors, including tax incentives, foreign rate differences, state income taxes, non-deductible expenses, non-taxable income, increases or decreases in valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain tax positions, excess tax benefits or shortfalls on stock compensation awards, audit developments and legislative changes. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was impacted favorably by the jurisdictional mix of global earnings, which included the long-lived asset impairments we recognized during 2023, a $50 million net tax benefit after related valuation allowances from notional interest deductions received by certain wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries that have financed their operations with equity capital and a $21 million tax benefit related to research and development tax credits, partially offset by non-deductible separation-related income tax costs and tax shortfalls on stock compensation awards. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was primarily attributable to non-deductible impairments of goodwill acquired in the Hillrom acquisition 48 and valuation allowance increases, including a $25 million increase related to deferred tax assets from a tax basis step-up related to previously enacted Swiss tax legislation. Those items were partially offset by a $47 million net tax benefit after related valuation allowances from notional interest deductions. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was primarily attributable to favorable geographic earnings mix, a $50 million net tax benefit after related valuation allowances from notional interest deductions, a $58 million tax benefit related to a tax-deductible foreign statutory loss on an investment in a foreign subsidiary, a tax benefit related to a change in U.S. foreign tax credit regulations and excess tax benefits on stock compensation awards, partially offset by an unfavorable court decision in a foreign jurisdiction related to an uncertain tax position. Our tax provisions for 2023, 2022 and 2021 did not include any significant tax charges related to either the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT) or Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) provisions, except for the inability to fully utilize foreign tax credits against such GILTI. Our accounting policy is to recognize any GILTI charge as a period cost. Discontinued Operations On September 29, 2023, we completed the sale of our BPS business and received cash proceeds of $3.96 billion from that transaction. The financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our BPS business, including our gain from the sale of that business and the related cash proceeds received, are reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $2.73 billion, $233 million and $262 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in the current year period was primarily driven by the $2.88 billion pre-tax gain from the sale of the BPS business ($2.59 billion net of tax). Excluding that gain on sale, pre-tax income from discontinued operations decreased by $90 million in 2023 compared to 2022, which was primarily driven by there being only nine months of activity through the sale of the business on September 29, 2023, lower sales from contract manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccines and increased SG&A expenses in the current year period from separation-related costs. Pre-tax income from discontinued operations decreased by $64 million in 2022 compared to 2021, which was primarily driven by lower sales from contract manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccines. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Net Income (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) per Diluted Share Net income (loss) for the total company, including discontinued operations, was income of $2.66 billion in 2023, loss of $2.42 billion in 2022 and income of $1.30 billion in 2021. Diluted earnings (loss) per share for the total company, including discontinued operations, was $5.25 per share in 2023, $(4.83) per share in 2022 and $2.53 per share in 2021. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2022 to 2023 and from 2021 to 2022 are discussed above. Additionally, earnings (loss) per share was positively impacted by the repurchase of 0.5 million shares in 2022 through Rule 10b5-1 purchase plans. Refer to Note 9 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our stock repurchases. 49 SEGMENT OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The following is a summary of operating income for our reportable segments. Medical Products and Therapies Segment operating income was $972 million, $962 million and $955 million for the years ended 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Segment operating income increased in 2023 compared to the prior year due to the gross profit from higher sales, partially offset by increases in SG&A and R&D expenses. Segment operating income increased in 2022 compared to the prior year due to decreases in R&D expenses, partially offset by lower gross margins. Healthcare Systems and Technologies Segment operating income was $483 million, $494 million and $60 million for the years ended 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Segment operating income decreased in 2023 primarily due to increased R&D expenses, particularly related to the connected care portfolio. Segment operating income increased in 2022 due to our acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021. The 2021 amounts reflect activity over the 18-day period from the acquisition date through year-end. Pharmaceuticals Segment operating income was $401 million, $391 million and $523 million for the years ended 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Segment operating income increased in 2023 primarily due to income from recent product launches, partially offset by a lower gross margin, primarily driven by raw materials inflation, and increased R&D 50 expense. Segment operating income decreased in 2022 primarily due to a lower gross margin driven by lower sales, partially offset by decreased R&D expenses. Kidney Care Segment operating income was $300 million, $408 million and $488 million for the years ended 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Segment operating income decreased in 2023 primarily due to raw materials inflation and higher bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans. Segment operating income decreased in 2022 primarily due to raw materials inflation, lower net sales and, to a lesser extent, increased supply chain costs, partially offset by lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans and $28 million of incremental revenue from a customer that did not meet its contractual minimum purchase requirements. Other During the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, we earned $18 million, $77 million and $59 million, respectively, of operating income that was not attributable to our reportable segments. Operating income generated by activities not attributable to our reportable segments is presented as Other. In the current and prior year periods, other operating income primarily represents income from revenues earned by certain of our manufacturing facilities from contract manufacturing activities and royalty income under a business development arrangement. The decrease in 2023 as compared to the prior year period reflects lower contract manufacturing volume and the termination of the royalty arrangement following our acquisition of the rights to the underlying product in April 2023. The increase in 2022 as compared to the prior year period was primarily driven by royalty income from a business development arrangement entered into in March 2022. Unallocated Corporate Costs Under our new operating model, most global functional support costs, overhead costs and other shared costs that benefit our segments are allocated to those segments. Corporate costs that are not allocated to our segments, as well as any differences between actual corporate costs and the amounts allocated to our segments, are presented as unallocated corporate costs. Additionally, intangible asset amortization and other special items are not allocated to our segments. Prior to the implementation of our new operating model in the third quarter of 2023, more costs were maintained at corporate and were not allocated to our previous segments. Certain of the costs that were previously maintained at corporate under our prior segment structure that are now allocated to our segments include manufacturing variances and centrally managed supply chain costs, certain R&D costs, product category support costs, stock compensation expense and certain employee benefit plan costs. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows from Operations — Continuing Operations In 2023, 2022 and 2021, cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $1.70 billion, $1.03 billion and $2.03 billion, respectively. Operating cash flows from continuing operations increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to a decrease in our net loss from continuing operations, lower annual payouts under our employee incentive compensation plans, which were based on our 2022 results, the timing of accounts payable payments and lower increases in inventory and accounts receivable balances as compared to the prior year. Operating cash flows from continuing operations decreased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to our net loss from continuing operations, increases in inventory levels and higher annual payouts under our employee incentive compensation plans, which were based on our 2021 results. Operating cash flows were also adversely impacted in 2022 by the timing of accounts receivable collections and accounts payable payments. 51 Cash Flows from Investing Activities In 2023, cash used for investing activities from continuing operations included capital expenditures of $692 million. In 2022, cash used for investing activities from continuing operations included capital expenditures of $620 million and payments for acquisitions and investments of $263 million, primarily related to our acquisition of the rights to Zosyn. In 2021, cash used for investing activities from continuing operations included payments for acquisitions and investments of $10.50 billion, primarily related to our acquisition of Hillrom, and capital expenditures of $691 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In 2023, cash used in financing activities included debt repayments of $2.63 billion, dividend payments of $586 million and a net decrease in commercial paper borrowings of $299 million, partially offset by proceeds from stock issued under employee benefit plans of $95 million. In 2022, cash used in financing activities included debt repayments of $954 million and dividend payments of $573 million, partially offset by a net increase in commercial paper borrowings of $55 million and proceeds from stock issued under employee benefit plans of $127 million. In 2021, cash generated from financing activities included $11.80 billion to fund the consideration for the Hillrom acquisition, repay certain indebtedness of Hillrom and pay fees and expenses related to the foregoing. We also had net proceeds from commercial paper borrowings of $299 million and repaid debt obligations of $2.82 billion, including $2.40 billion of debt that was assumed in the Hillrom acquisition. Financing activities in 2021 also included payments for treasury stock repurchases of $600 million, dividend payments of $530 million and receipts from stock issued under employee benefit plans of $187 million. As authorized by the Board of Directors, we repurchase our stock depending upon our cash flows, net debt levels and market conditions. In July 2012, the Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program and the related authorization was subsequently increased a number of times. We did not repurchase any shares under this authority in 2023 and had $1.30 billion remaining available under this authorization as of December 31, 2023. Credit Facilities, Commercial Paper Program and Access to Capital and Credit Ratings Credit Facilities and Commercial Paper Program As of December 31, 2023, we had a U.S. Dollar-denominated term loan credit facility, which had two tranches of term loans outstanding, a U.S. Dollar-denominated revolving credit facility and a Euro-denominated revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2023, we had $130 million outstanding under one tranche of our U.S. Dollar-denominated term loan credit facility that matures in 2024 and $1.64 billion outstanding under the other tranche of our U.S. Dollar-denominated term loan credit facility that matures in 2026. Borrowings under the term loan credit facility bear interest on the principal amount outstanding at either Term SOFR plus an applicable margin plus a credit spread adjustment or a “base rate” plus an applicable margin. The term loan credit facility contains various covenants, including a maximum net leverage ratio. We have the option to prepay outstanding amounts under the term loan credit facility in whole or in part at any time. As of December 31, 2023, our U.S. Dollar-denominated revolving credit facility and Euro-denominated revolving credit facility had a maximum capacity of $2.50 billion and €200 million, respectively, and there were no borrowings under either of these revolving credit facilities as of December, 31, 2023 or December 31, 2022. Each of the revolving credit facilities matures in 2026. The revolving credit facilities enable us to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates, and contain various covenants, including a maximum net leverage ratio. Facility fees under the credit facilities were 0.125% annually as of both December 31, 2023 and 2022 and are based on our credit ratings and the total capacity of the revolving credit facility. In the first quarter of 2023, we amended the credit agreements governing our U.S. Dollar-denominated term loan credit facility and revolving credit facility and the guaranty agreement with respect to our Euro-denominated revolving credit facility, in each case to amend the net leverage ratio covenant to increase the maximum net leverage ratio for the four fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2023, June 30, 2023, September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. 52 Based on our covenant calculations as of December 31, 2023, we have capacity to draw on the full amounts under our revolving credit facilities. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting either of the revolving credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity of the revolving credit facilities by the institution’s respective commitment. Additionally, a deterioration in our financial performance may reduce our ability to draw on our revolving credit facilities. We have a commercial paper program that currently enables us to borrow efficiently at short-term interest rates. Upon maturity of any commercial paper borrowings under this program, and to the extent old issuances are not repaid by cash on hand, we are exposed to the rollover risk of not being able to issue new commercial paper. Our commercial paper borrowing arrangements require us to maintain undrawn borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities for an amount at least equal to our outstanding commercial paper borrowings. If we were not able to issue new commercial paper, we have the option of drawing on the revolving credit facilities; however, electing to do so would result in higher interest expense. We had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2023. We also maintain other credit arrangements, as described in Note 6 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Access to Capital and Credit Ratings We intend to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand, including the proceeds from the recently completed sale of our BPS business, future cash flows from operations, or by issuing additional debt, which could include commercial paper. We had $3.19 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2023, with adequate cash available to meet operating requirements in each jurisdiction in which we operate. We invest our excess cash in money market and other funds and diversify the concentration of cash among different financial institutions. As of December 31, 2023, we had $13.80 billion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including current maturities, and no short-term debt. During the fourth quarter of 2023, we used a portion of the approximately $3.70 billion of net after-tax cash proceeds from the BPS divestiture to repay $2.80 billion of short- and long-term indebtedness and we expect to use substantially all of the remaining net after-tax proceeds to continue to repay indebtedness through the first half of 2024. Subject to market conditions, we regularly evaluate opportunities with respect to our capital structure. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt, including commercial paper, or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or in the solvency of our customers or suppliers, deterioration in our key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, we believe we have sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support our growth objectives and reduce our post-Hillrom acquisition debt levels as we take actions consistent with our capital allocation priorities. 53 Our credit ratings at December 31, 2023 were as follows: In January 2024, Fitch revised our senior debt credit rating from BBB to BBB-, our senior debt credit rating outlook rating from rating watch negative to stable and our short-term debt credit rating from F2 to F3. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2023, we had contractual obligations, excluding accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities, payable or maturing in the following periods. 1. Interest payments on debt and finance lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2023. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 6 and Note 7, respectively, in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion regarding our debt instruments outstanding and finance lease obligations at December 31, 2023. 2. The primary components of other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2023 are pension and other postretirement benefits, deferred tax liabilities, long-term tax liabilities, and litigation and environmental reserves. We projected the timing of the related future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from our estimates. We contributed $47 million to our defined benefit pension plans in 2023 and 2022. The timing of funding in future periods is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates, investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes cash outflows related to our pension plans. The amount included within other non-current liabilities (and excluded from the table above) related to our pension plan liabilities was $782 million as of December 31, 2023. We have no obligation to fund our principal plans in the United States in 2024. We continually reassess the amount and timing of any discretionary contributions. In 2024, we expect to make contributions of at least $18 million to our Puerto Rico plan and $48 million to our foreign pension plans. We expect to have net cash outflows relating to our OPEB plans of $17 million in 2024. Additionally, we have excluded long-term tax liabilities, which include liabilities for unrecognized tax positions, and deferred tax liabilities from the table above because we are unable to estimate the timing of the related cash outflows. The amounts of long-term tax liabilities and deferred tax liabilities included within other non-current liabilities (and excluded from the table above) were $125 million and $447 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2023. 3. Includes our significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancellable agreements, any penalty due upon cancellation is included. These commitments do not exceed our projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material and component part purchases, utility agreements and service contracts. 54 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We periodically enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheets in accordance with U.S. GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, we may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). For a discussion of our significant off-balance sheet arrangements, refer to Note 16 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding receivable transactions, and Note 3 and Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding joint development and commercialization arrangements, indemnifications and legal contingencies. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK We operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. Our hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 16 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our financial instruments and hedging strategies. Currency Risk We are primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to revenues generated outside of the United States denominated in the Euro, British Pound, Chinese Renminbi, Korean Won, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Colombian Peso, Brazilian Real, Mexican Peso, Indian Rupee and Swedish Krona. We manage our foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows us to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, we use derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. However, we don't hedge our entire foreign exchange exposure and are still subject to earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange risk.  Financial market and currency volatility may limit our ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures. We primarily use forward contracts to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions and recognized assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The maximum term over which we have cash flow hedge contracts in place related to foreign exchange risk on forecasted transactions as of December 31, 2023 is 12 months. We also enter into derivative instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk on certain intra-company and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies. As part of our risk-management program, we perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of our foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2023, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, the net pre-tax asset balance of $46 million with respect to those contracts would change by $106 million. A similar analysis performed with respect to contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2022 indicated that, on a pre-tax basis, the net asset balance of $2 million would change by $68 million. The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2023 by replacing the actual exchange rates as of December 31, 2023 with exchange rates that are 10% weaker compared to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances. In February 2022, the three-year cumulative inflation rate in Turkey exceeded 100 percent.  As a result, on April 1, 2022, we began reporting the results of our subsidiary in that jurisdiction using highly inflationary accounting, which requires that the functional currency of the entity be changed to the reporting currency of its parent.  As of December 31, 2023, our subsidiary in Turkey had net monetary assets of $28 million. 55 Interest Rate Risk We are also exposed to the risk that our earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. Our policy is to manage interest costs using the mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that we believe is appropriate at that time. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps in which we agree to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. We also periodically use forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt. As of December 31, 2023, there were no interest rate derivative contracts outstanding and we had $2.07 billion of outstanding floating rate debt. A 100 basis point change in interest rates would impact our pre-tax earnings and cash flows by $21 million over a one-year period. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on recently adopted accounting pronouncements. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Recently issued accounting standards not yet adopted In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which requires enhanced disclosures about segment expenses on an annual and interim basis. This standard is effective for our annual consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2024 and for interim periods beginning in 2025. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvement to Income Tax Disclosures, which requires (1) disclosure of specific categories in the rate reconciliation and (2) additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. Additionally, the amendment requires disclosure of certain disaggregated information about income taxes paid, income from continuing operations before income tax expense (benefit) and income tax expense (benefit). The standard is effective for our annual consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2025. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2022, the FASB issued ASU 2022-03, Fair Value Measurement of Equity Securities Subject to Contractual Sales Restrictions, which (1) clarifies the guidance in Topic 820 on the fair value measurement of an equity security that is subject to contractual restrictions that prohibit the sale of an equity security and (2) requires specific disclosures related to such an equity security. The standard is effective for our annual consolidated financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2024 and for interim periods beginning in 2025. The impact of the adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of our accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are the most important to the depiction of our financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by us, often employing the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have an unfavorable effect on our results of operations and financial position. The following is a summary of accounting policies that we consider critical to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances Revenues from product sales are recorded at the net sales price (transaction price), which includes estimates of variable consideration primarily related to rebates and distributor chargebacks. These reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. Our estimates take into consideration historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, 56 industry data, and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. The amount of variable consideration included in the net sales price is limited to the amount that is probable not to result in a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized in a future period.  Additionally, our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately and determining the allocation of the transaction price may require significant judgment. Pension and OPEB Plans We provide pension and other postretirement benefits to certain of our employees. The service component of employee benefit expenses is reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statements as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. All other components of these employee benefit expenses are reported in other (income) expense, net in our consolidated statements of income (loss). The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost for the plans is calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually and revised if appropriate. The significant assumptions include the following: • interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities; • the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets; • rates of increase in employee compensation (used in estimating liabilities); • anticipated future healthcare trend rates (used in estimating the OPEB plan liability); and • other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover (used in estimating liabilities). Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. Our key assumptions are listed in Note 13 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to our consolidated financial statements. Discount Rate Assumption Effective for the December 31, 2023 measurement date, we utilized discount rates of 5.21% and 5.12%, respectively, to measure the benefit obligations for our most significant pension and OPEB plans, which cover U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. We used a broad population of approximately 200 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2023 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. Dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of approximately 700 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds we would most likely select if we were to actually annuitize our pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and other European countries, we use a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For our other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates. To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, we perform a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease by $7 million, and for each 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would increase by $6 million. 57 Return on Plan Assets Assumption In measuring the net periodic cost for 2023, we used a long-term expected rate of return of 6.50% for our most significant pension plans, which cover U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. This assumption will increase to 6.75% in 2024. This assumption is not applicable to our OPEB plan because it is not funded. We establish the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on our asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both our actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future. To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, we perform a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $15 million. Other Assumptions For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, we used the Pri-2012 combined mortality table with improvements projected using the MP-2021 projection scale adjusted to a long-term improvement of 0.8% as of December 31, 2023. For all other pension plans, we utilized country- and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. We periodically analyze and update our assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends. The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions We maintain valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, we evaluate factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if we take operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary. In the normal course of business, we are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and are periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and we intend to defend our positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, we record reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with U.S. GAAP based on the technical support for the positions, our past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. Our results of operations and effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, we prevail in positions for which reserves have been established, or we are required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves. Realization of our U.S. and foreign operating loss and tax credit carryforwards depends on generating sufficient future earnings. A valuation allowance of $658 million and $704 million was recognized as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, to reduce the deferred tax assets associated with net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards because we do not believe it is more likely than not that these assets will be fully realized prior to expiration. After evaluating relevant U.S. tax laws, any elections or other opportunities that may be available, and the future expiration of certain U.S. tax provisions that will impact the utilization of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, management expects to be able to realize some, but not all, of the U.S. foreign tax credit deferred 58 tax assets up to its recurring and non-recurring foreign inclusions. Therefore, a valuation allowance of $130 million and $119 million was recognized with respect to the foreign tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We will continue to evaluate the need for additional valuation allowances and, as circumstances change, the valuation allowance may change. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Long-Lived Assets Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the purchase price over the fair value (or other measurement attribute required by U.S. GAAP) of acquired assets and liabilities in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment review annually and whenever indicators of impairment exist. We have the option to assess goodwill for impairment by initially performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative goodwill impairment test is not required to be performed. If we determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, or if we do not elect the option to perform an initial qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. In the quantitative impairment test, we calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount that the reporting unit’s carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. In a quantitative goodwill impairment test, the fair values of our reporting units are generally determined based on a discounted cash flow model (an income approach) and earnings multiples (a market approach) based on the guideline public company method. Significant assumptions used in reporting unit fair value measurements generally include forecasted cash flows, discount rates, terminal growth rates and earnings multiples. The discounted cash flow models used to determine the fair values of our reporting units during 2023 reflected our most recent cash flow projections, discount rates ranging from 8.0% to 9.5% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2.0% to 3.5%. Each of these inputs can significantly affect the fair values of our reporting units. Our operating and reportable segments were changed in the third quarter of 2023 to align with our new operating model: Medical Products and Therapies, Healthcare Systems and Technologies (formerly referred to as our Hillrom segment), Pharmaceuticals and Kidney Care. As a result of this segment change, we reallocated the goodwill from our previous Americas, EMEA and APAC segments to the reporting units within our new Medical Products and Therapies, Pharmaceuticals and Kidney Care segments based on the relative fair values of those reporting units. We performed impairment tests both before and after the reporting unit change and determined that no goodwill impairment had occurred. Upon our segment change in the third quarter of 2023, we initially identified three reporting units within our new Kidney Care segment: PD, HD and Acute Therapies. In connection with the ongoing activities related to the proposed separation of our Kidney Care segment, that business completed an organizational realignment during the fourth quarter of 2023. As a result of that organizational realignment within our Kidney Care segment, the previous PD and HD reporting units were combined into a single Chronic Therapies reporting unit. We performed impairment tests of the Kidney Care reporting units, both before and after the combination of PD and HD into Chronic Therapies, and determined that no goodwill impairment had occurred. In connection with our November 1, 2023 annual goodwill impairment tests, we determined that no goodwill impairments had occurred. The fair values of the Front Line Care reporting unit within our Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment and the Chronic Therapies reporting unit within our Kidney Care segment exceeded their carrying values by approximately 5% and 6%, respectively. We are continuing to closely monitor the performance of those reporting units, and if there is a significant adverse change in our outlook for those businesses in the future, a goodwill impairment could arise at that time. As of December 31, 2023, the carrying amounts of goodwill for our Front Line Care and Chronic Therapies reporting units were $2.42 billion and $444 million, respectively. We acquired Hillrom on December 13, 2021 and recognized $6.83 billion of goodwill and $6.03 billion of other intangible assets, including $1.91 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets, in connection with that acquisition. In the second half of 2022, we recognized $2.81 of goodwill impairments related to the reporting units within our Hillrom segment (currently referred to as out Healthcare Systems and Technologies segment). As discussed below, 59 we also recognized impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets related to that business, consisting primarily of trade names. Other Long-Lived Assets Other long-lived assets are primarily comprised of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including both indefinite-lived intangible assets and amortizing intangible assets. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Indefinite-lived intangible assets, such as IPR&D acquired in business combinations and certain trade names with indefinite lives, are subject to an impairment review annually and whenever indicators of impairment exist. We have the option to assess indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by first performing qualitative assessments to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair values of the indefinite-lived intangible assets are less than the carrying amounts. If we determine that it is more-likely-than-not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, or if we elect not to perform an initial qualitative assessment, we then perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeds the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, we write the carrying amount down to the fair value. In a quantitative indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test, fair values are generally determined based on a discounted cash flow model. Significant assumptions used in valuations of indefinite-lived intangible assets include the forecasted cash flows, discount rates, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, the stage in completion (for acquired IPR&D intangible assets), royalty rates, terminal growth rates and contributory asset charges. The relief from royalty models used in the determination of the fair values of our trade name intangible assets during 2023 reflected our most recent revenue projections, a discount rate of 9%, royalty rates ranging from 4% to 5% and terminal growth rates ranging from 3.0% to 3.5%. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. As a result of an update to our long-term branding strategy, we reclassified two trade name intangible assets with carrying amounts of $870 million and $21 million from indefinite-lived intangible assets to amortizing intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2023. The estimated useful lives assigned to those assets were 15 years and 5 years, respectively, and we recognized $10 million of amortization expense on those intangible assets from the date of reclassification through December 31, 2023. We performed impairment tests of those intangible assets at the time of the reclassification and determined that no impairment had occurred. The total carrying amount of our indefinite-lived intangible assets was $837 million as of December 31, 2023, comprised of a trade name intangible asset and IPR&D. We tested our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of 2023 and determined that no impairment had occurred. Intangible Assets with Definite Lives and Property, Plant and Equipment We review the carrying amounts of long-lived assets used in operations, other than goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization, for potential impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In evaluating recoverability, we group assets and liabilities at the lowest level such that the identifiable cash flows relating to the group are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We then compare the carrying amounts of the assets or asset groups with the related estimated undiscounted future cash flows. In the event an asset (or asset group) is not recoverable, an impairment charge is recorded as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset (or asset group) exceeds its fair value. However, the portion of an impairment loss allocated to an individual long-lived asset within an asset group cannot reduce the carrying amount of that asset below its fair value if its fair value is determinable without undue cost and effort. Our manufacturing facility in Opelika, Alabama was one of three Baxter manufacturing facilities that produced dialyzers used in hemodialysis (HD) treatments. The current competitive environment has increased the global supply of those products and, in connection with our initiatives to streamline our manufacturing footprint and improve our profitability, we made the decision in the second quarter of 2023 to cease production of dialyzers at the Opelika facility near the end of 2023. As a result of our decision to cease dialyzer production at this manufacturing facility, we performed a trigger-based recoverability assessment of its long-lived assets, which consist of a building 60 and manufacturing equipment, including specialized equipment used in the production of dialyzers. The carrying amount of that asset group exceeded the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated, and we recognized an impairment charge of $243 million, classified within cost of sales in the accompanying consolidated statements of income (loss), during the year ended December 31, 2023 to reduce the carrying amounts to their estimated fair values. The fair values of the building and manufacturing equipment tested for impairment during the second quarter of 2023 were determined based on transaction prices of comparable assets. Significant assumptions used in the determination of the fair values included the identification of representative comparable assets. As discussed above, we identified new reporting units as a result of our segment change in the third quarter of 2023 and performed fair value measurements of our reporting units to reallocate goodwill to the new reporting units based on their relative fair values and to assess those reporting units for impairment. The HD business within our Kidney Care segment was initially identified as one of the new reporting units at that time. Based on the estimated fair value of our HD business, we allocated no goodwill to it. Additionally, we determined that a triggering event was present to review the carrying amounts of long-lived assets within the HD business, which include four manufacturing facilities that primarily manufacture HD products, HD equipment leased to customers under operating leases and developed technology intangible assets, for potential impairment. In connection with that evaluation, we determined that the carrying amount of the asset group represented by our HD business, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of other assets and liabilities, exceeded its forecasted undiscounted cash flows. We then measured the excess of the carrying amount of that asset group over its fair value and allocated the resulting impairment to its long-lived assets, limiting the impairments of individual assets within the group to amounts that would not result in their carrying amounts being written down below their fair values. As a result, we recognized $267 million of long-lived asset impairment charges, comprised of (i) a $190 million impairment charge related to certain manufacturing equipment, operating lease right-of-use assets and HD equipment leased to customers and (ii) a $77 million impairment charge related to developed technology intangible assets. The fair value of the HD asset group was based on a discounted cash flow model (an income approach). Significant assumptions used in the determination of its fair value include forecasted cash flows, discount rates and terminal growth rates. The discounted cash flow model used to determine the fair value of the HD asset group during the third quarter 2023 reflected our most recent cash flow projections, a discount rate of 8% and a terminal growth rate of 1.5%. We also measured the fair values of individual assets within that asset group to ensure that the allocation of the asset group’s impairment to the long-lived assets within that group would not reduce the carrying amount of any individual asset below its fair value. The fair values of the buildings within that asset group were determined based on a cost approach. Significant assumptions used in the determination of those fair values included replacement costs of assets with a similar age and condition. The fair values of manufacturing equipment and HD equipment leased to customers within that group were determined based on transaction prices of comparable assets. Significant assumptions used in the determination of those fair values included the identification of representative comparable assets. The fair value of the right-of-use asset within that group was determined based on market rents and discount rates. During the third quarter of 2022, we recognized pre-tax impairment charges of $332 million to reduce the carrying amounts of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily related to the Hillrom and Welch Allyn trade names acquired in the Hillrom acquisition, to their estimated fair values. Additionally, during 2022 we recognized pre-tax impairment charges of $12 million related to developed technology intangible assets due to declines in market expectations for the related products. Long-Lived Assets Held for Sale Long-lived assets are classified as held for sale when certain criteria are met, including when management has committed to sell the asset, the asset is available for sale in its present condition and the sale is probable of being completed within one year of the balance sheet date. Assets held for sale are no longer depreciated or amortized and they are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Our goodwill and other long-lived asset fair value measurements are classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy because they involve significant unobservable inputs. 61 Further adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions or our earnings forecasts could lead to additional goodwill or other long-lived asset impairment charges in future periods and such charges could be material to our results of operations. CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS In July 2017, immediately prior to the closing of our acquisition of Claris Injectables Limited (Claris), FDA commenced an inspection of the Claris’ facilities in Ahmedabad, India. FDA completed the inspection and subsequently issued a Warning Letter based on observations identified in the 2017 inspection (2017 Warning Letter).¹ FDA re-inspected the facilities and issued a Form FDA 483 on May 17, 2022. On September 1, 2022, FDA notified us that the inspection had been classified as voluntary action indicated. From January 19, 2023 to January 27, 2023, FDA performed an inspection at the Ahmedabad site, concluding with the issuance of a Form FDA 483. On April 26, 2023, FDA notified us that the inspection had been classified as official action indicated. We received a Warning Letter on July 25, 2023 based on observations identified in the January 2023 inspection (2023 Warning Letter) 2 . Since the issuance of the 2017 Warning Letter, we have implemented corrective and preventive actions to address FDA's related observations, as well as other enhancements at the site. We have fully responded to the 2023 Warning Letter, have implemented additional corrective and preventive actions, and continue to engage with FDA regarding the agency's observations. In addition, since the issuance of the 2017 Warning Letter, we have secured other sites in our manufacturing network and have launched and distribute select products from those sites in the U.S. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters and how they may impact us. 1 Available online at https://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/ucm613538.htm 2 Available online at https://www.fda.gov/inspections-compliance-enforcement-and-criminal-investigations/warning-letters/baxter-healthcare-corporation-654136-07252023 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute “forward-looking statements,” as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. These statements by their nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. Use of the words “may,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “potential,” “expects,” “plans,” “seeks,” “intends,” “evaluates,” “pursues,” “anticipates,” “continues,” “designs,” “impacts,” “affects,” “forecasts,” “target,” “outlook,” “initiative,” “objective,” “designed,” “priorities,” “goal,” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain such words. These forward-looking statements include statements with respect to the proposed separation of our Kidney Care business and other portfolio management activities we may undertake in the future, the costs and timing associated with strategic initiatives including the proposed separation, the viability and accuracy of anticipated benefits of our strategic actions, accounting estimates and assumptions (including with respect to goodwill and other intangible asset impairments), global economic conditions, litigation-related matters, future regulatory filings (or the withdrawal or resubmission of any pending submissions) and our R&D pipeline (including anticipated product approvals or clearances), sales from new product offerings, credit exposure to foreign governments, the adequacy of cash flows and credit facilities, potential developments with respect to credit ratings, investment of foreign earnings, estimates of liabilities including those related to uncertain tax positions, contingent payments, future pension plan contributions, costs, discount rates and rates of return, our exposure to financial market volatility and foreign currency, interest rate and credit risks, our net interest expense, the impact of inflation on our business, the impact of competition, future sales growth, business development activities, cost saving initiatives, future capital and R&D expenditures, future debt issuances and refinancings, the adequacy of tax provisions and reserves, the effective income tax rate and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts. These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. While these statements represent our judgment on what the future may hold, and we believe these judgments are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of any events or financial results. Whether actual future results and developments will conform to expectations and 62 predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: • our ability to execute and complete strategic initiatives, asset dispositions and other transactions and development activities, including the proposed separation of our Kidney Care business, our plans to simplify our manufacturing footprint and the timing for such transactions, the ability to satisfy any applicable conditions and the expected proceeds, consideration and benefits; • failure to accurately forecast or achieve our short-and long-term financial performance and goals (including with respect to our strategic initiatives and other actions) and related impacts on our liquidity; • our ability to execute on our capital allocation plans, including our debt repayment plans, the timing and amount of any dividends, share repurchases and divestiture proceeds and the capital structure of the public company that we expect to form as a result of the proposed spinoff of our Kidney Care business (and the resulting capital structure for the remaining company); • our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; • the impact of global economic conditions (including, among other things, inflation levels, interest rates, financial market volatility, banking crises, the potential for a recession, the war in Ukraine, the conflict in the Middle East (including recent attacks on merchant ships in the Red Sea), tensions between China and Taiwan and the potential for escalation of these conflicts, the related economic sanctions being imposed globally in response to the conflicts and potential trade wars and global public health crises, pandemics and epidemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or the anticipation of any of the foregoing, on our operations and our employees, customers, suppliers and foreign governments in countries in which we operate; • downgrades to our credit ratings or ratings outlooks, and the impact on our funding costs and liquidity; • product development risks, including satisfactory clinical performance and obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals (including as a result of evolving regulatory requirements or the withdrawal or resubmission of any pending applications), the ability to manufacture at appropriate scale and the general unpredictability associated with the product development cycle; • product quality or patient safety issues leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, warning letters, import bans, sanctions, seizures, litigation or declining sales, including the focus on evaluating product portfolios for the potential presence or formation of nitrosamines; • future actions of, or failures to act or delays in acting by, FDA, the European Medicines Agency or any other regulatory body or government authority (including the SEC, DOJ or the Attorney General of any state) that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sale or result in seizures, recalls, injunctions, monetary sanctions or criminal or civil liabilities; • demand and market acceptance risks for, and competitive pressures related to, new and existing products, challenges with accurately predicting changing customer preferences and future expenditures and inventory levels and with being able to monetize new and existing products and services, the impact of those products on quality and patient safety concerns and the need for ongoing training and support for our products; • breaches, including by cyber-attack, data leakage, unauthorized access or theft, or failures of or vulnerabilities in, our information technology systems or products; • the continuity, availability and pricing of acceptable raw materials and component parts, our ability to pass some or all of these costs to our customers through price increases or otherwise, and the related continuity of our manufacturing and distribution and those of our suppliers; • inability to create additional production capacity in a timely manner or the occurrence of other manufacturing, sterilization or supply difficulties, including as a result of natural disaster, war, terrorism, global public health crises and epidemics/pandemics, regulatory actions or otherwise; • our ability to finance and develop new products or enhancements on commercially acceptable terms or at all; • loss of key employees, the occurrence of labor disruptions (including as a result of labor disagreements under bargaining agreements or national trade union agreements or disputes with works councils) or the inability to attract, develop, retain and engage employees • failures with respect to our quality, compliance or ethics programs; 63 • future actions of third parties, including third-party payors and our customers and distributors (including GPOs and IDNs); • changes to legislation and regulation and other governmental pressures in the United States and globally, including the cost of compliance and potential penalties for purported noncompliance thereof, including new or amended laws, rules and regulations as well as the impact of healthcare reform and its implementation, suspension, repeal, replacement, amendment, modification and other similar actions undertaken by the United States or foreign governments, including with respect to pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies; • the outcome of pending or future litigation; • the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; • global regulatory, trade and tax policies, including with respect to climate change and other sustainability matters; • the ability to protect or enforce our patents or other proprietary rights (including trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how) or where the patents of third parties prevent or restrict our manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; • the impact of any goodwill, intangible asset or other long-lived asset impairments on our operating results; • fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates; • any changes in law concerning the taxation of income (whether with respect to current or future tax reform); • actions by tax authorities in connection with ongoing tax audits; • other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including those factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors and other filings with the SEC, all of which are available on our website. Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements, which are more fully discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-looking statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Further, other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results. Any forward-looking statement in this information statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation, and expressly disclaim any obligation, to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information or future events.