********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, future growth prospects and stock price could suffer. Risk Factors Summary This summary of risks below is intended to provide an overview of the risks we face and should not be considered a substitute for the more detailed risk factors discussed immediately following this summary. Strategic Risks • The proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all. • We will be exposed to new risks as a result of the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we are undertaking. • We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Hillrom acquisition. • If our business strategy and development activities are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance and Our Common Stock • Global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions, have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our operations. • Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. • We may not achieve our financial goals. • We have incurred a substantial amount of debt in connection with the Hillrom acquisition. • Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. • Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so. • Future material impairments in the value of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, could negatively affect our operating results. Other Risks Relating to Our Business • The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have had, and we expect will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business. • If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to keep pace with changing consumer preferences and needs and advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. • Issues with product supply or quality could, among other things, have an adverse effect on our business or cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products. • There is substantial competition in the product markets in which we operate and the risk of declining demand and pricing pressures could adversely affect our operating results. • If we fail to attract and retain key employees our business may suffer. Risks Related to Our Business Operations • Segments of our business are significantly dependent on major contracts with GPOs, IDNs, and certain other distributors and purchasers. • We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and might experience business disruptions and adverse tax consequences associated with restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. 9 • If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or for a cost-effective price or if we experience other manufacturing, sterilization, supply or distribution difficulties, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. • Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Breaches and breakdowns affecting our information technology systems or protected information could have a material adverse effect on us. • We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. • A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters • We are subject to a number of laws and regulations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. • Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and security issues and expanding laws could impact our business and expose us to increased liability. • If reimbursement or other payment for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the United States or in foreign countries or changes to policies with respect to pricing, taxation or rebates, our business could suffer. • We could be subject to fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. • If we are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged. • Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results. • We are party to a number of pending lawsuits and other disputes which may have an adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. Strategic Risks The proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all. We recently announced a series of strategic actions, including the proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories, a review of strategic alternatives for our BPS product category and plans to implement a simplified operating model and manufacturing footprint. We may encounter challenges to executing the proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories on the terms and within the timeframe we announced, or at all. The spinoff will be subject to the satisfaction of a number of customary conditions, including final approval from the Baxter Board of Directors, the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement on Form 10, receipt of a favorable Internal Revenue Service ruling or tax opinion from counsel with respect to the tax-free nature of the spin, satisfactory completion of financing arrangements and receipt of any necessary regulatory approvals. The failure to satisfy any of the required conditions could delay the completion of the proposed spinoff for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all. Additionally, it is complex in nature, and unanticipated developments or changes, including disruptions in general market conditions, changes in law or challenges in executing the separation of the two businesses, may affect our ability to complete the spinoff on the terms or on the timeline we announced, or at all. The terms and conditions of the required regulatory authorizations and consents that are granted, if any, may also impose requirements, limitations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the independent companies or impact our ability to complete the spinoff on the terms or timeline we announced, or at all. Although we intend for the proposed spinoff to be tax-free to the company’s stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we expect to incur non-U.S. cash taxes on the preparatory restructuring and may also incur non-cash tax expense including potential impairments of deferred tax assets. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the proposed spinoff will qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS ruling or opinion from counsel 10 mentioned above will be based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by the Company and the new independent company. If any of these factual representations or assumptions are, or become, untrue or incomplete in any material respect, an undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the opinion or ruling are based are materially different from the actual facts relating to the spinoff, reliance on the opinion or ruling may be jeopardized. If the spinoff were ultimately determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would incur a significant tax liability, while the distributions to the company’s stockholders would become taxable and the new independent company could incur income tax liabilities as well. We will be exposed to new risks as a result of the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we are undertaking. Our strategic actions may not achieve their anticipated benefits, or our costs may exceed our estimates. Our businesses will face material challenges in connection with the proposed spinoff and the other strategic actions we are undertaking (including a review of strategic alternatives for our BPS product category and plans to implement a simplified operating model and manufacturing footprint). These challenges include, without limitation, the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; appropriately allocating assets and liabilities among the companies to be separated in the proposed spinoff, particularly given the complex nature of the spinoff; attracting, retaining and motivating key management and other employees; retaining existing, or attracting new, business and operational relationships, including with customers, suppliers, employees and other counterparties; maintaining our relationships with regulators; assigning customer contracts and intellectual property to each of the businesses; and potential negative reactions from the financial markets. In particular, in the last few years, the company has undertaken other strategic and business transformation actions (including the acquisition of Hillrom and cost reduction initiatives) that have entailed changes across our organizational structure, senior leadership, culture, functional alignment, outsourcing and other areas. This poses risks in the form of personnel capacity constraints and institutional knowledge loss that has led to and could in the future lead to missed performance or financial targets and harm to our reputation, and these risks are heightened with the additional interdependent actions that will be needed to complete the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we are pursuing. We have begun and will continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the proposed spinoff and other strategic actions we have announced. These expenses may be higher than currently anticipated or may not yield a discernible benefit if the actions are not completed on schedule or at all. In addition, the anticipated benefits of these actions are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect, and we cannot predict with certainty when the expected benefits will occur, or the extent to which they will be achieved. As a result, even if the proposed spinoff or other strategic actions are completed, they may not achieve some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational or other benefits in the expected timeframe, or at all, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, even if the proposed spinoff is completed, we cannot assure you that each separate company will be successful. Completion of the spinoff will result in independent public companies that are smaller, less diversified companies, with more limited businesses concentrated in their respective industries than Baxter is today. As a result, each company will be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the diversification of revenues, costs and cash flows will diminish, such that each company’s results of operations, cash flows, working capital, effective tax rate and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility, and each company’s ability to fund capital expenditures and investments, pay dividends and meet debt obligations and other liabilities may be diminished. Each company will also incur one-time and ongoing costs, including costs of operating as independent companies, that the separated businesses will no longer be able to share. In addition, until the market has fully analyzed the values of the separate companies, the price of our common stock and common stock of the new company may experience volatility. Our common stock or the common stock of the new company may not match some holders’ investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause certain investors to sell their shares, which could in turn lead to declines in the trading price of such stock. As a result of any of the foregoing or other risks, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies may be less than what the value of our common stock would have been absent the spinoff. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the Hillrom acquisition. During 2021, we completed the acquisition of Hillrom. The success of this acquisition depends on, among other things, our ability to integrate Hillrom in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities, realizes anticipated cost and revenue synergies (some of which are still being identified) and achieves certain previously communicated net 11 leverage targets without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Hillrom acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition. These difficulties include challenges consolidating certain operations and functions (including regulatory and other corporate functions), integrating technologies (including differing IT systems and processes), organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in the business cultures of the two companies and retaining key personnel. The integration is complex and time consuming and aspects of it may be delayed, or additional and unforeseen expenses may result, in light of our recently announced strategic initiatives. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the Hillrom acquisition may also disrupt our ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with market participants, employees, regulators and others with whom we have business or other dealings. Any failure to successfully or cost-effectively integrate Hillrom could have a material adverse effect on our business and cause reputational harm. Challenges associated with our integration efforts are heightened due to the other strategic actions we are pursuing. If our business strategy and development activities are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. While we remain committed to deleveraging, we expect to engage in significant business development activities over the longer term (once we have satisfied our net leverage targets), including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities. These activities may result in substantial investment of our resources (including resources currently focused on the recently announced strategic initiatives discussed above). Our success developing products or expanding into new markets from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance; competition from other companies in the industries in which we operate that are seeking similar opportunities; whether we are able to complete an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us; the strength of the other company’s underlying technology, products and ability to execute its business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation related to the other company’s products or technology; and our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product, technology or research into our existing operations, including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process R&D projects and to maintain adequate controls over the combined operations. Certain of these activities are subject to antitrust and competition laws, which laws could impact our ability to pursue strategic transactions and could result in mandated divestitures in the context of proposed acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may not realize the intended benefits of such activities, including that acquisition and integration costs may be greater than expected or the possibility that expected return on investment, synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected timeframes. For more information, see Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance and Our Common Stock Global economic conditions, including inflation and supply chain disruptions, have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our operations. General global economic downturns and macroeconomic trends, including heightened inflation, capital markets volatility, interest rate and currency rate fluctuations, and economic slowdown or recession, have resulted and may continue to result in unfavorable conditions that negatively affect demand for our products and exacerbate some of the other risks that affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Both domestic and international markets experienced significant inflationary pressures in fiscal year 2022 and inflation rates in the U.S., as well as in other countries in which we operate, are currently expected to continue at elevated levels for the near-term. In addition, the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and other central banks in various countries have raised, and may again raise, interest rates in response to concerns about inflation, which, coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, has had and may continue to have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. Interest rate increases or other government actions taken to reduce inflation have resulted in recessionary pressures in many parts of the world. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past, and these currency fluctuations have affected, and may continue to affect, the reported value of our assets and liabilities, as well as our cash flows. We have experienced significant challenges to our global supply chain in recent periods, including production delays and interruptions, increased costs and shortages of raw materials and component parts (including resins and electromechanical devices) and higher transportation and labor costs, resulting from COVID-19 and other 12 exogenous factors including significant weather events, elevated inflation levels, disruptions to certain ports of call around the world, the war in Ukraine and other geopolitical events. Due to the nature of our products, which include dense consumable medical products such as IV fluids, and the geographic locations of our manufacturing facilities, which often require us to transport our products long distances, we may be more susceptible to increases in freight costs and other supply chain challenges than certain of our industry peers. We expect to experience some of these and other challenges related to our supply chain in future periods. These challenges, including the unavailability of certain raw materials and component parts, have also had a negative impact on our sales for certain product categories due to our inability to fully satisfy demand and may continue to have a negative impact on our sales in the future.  They have also made it increasingly difficult to model accurately our short-term and long-term financial objectives and may continue to do so in the future Our ability to generate cash flows from operations has been affected, and could continue to be affected, if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or, in the solvency or planned capital expenditures of our customers or suppliers, or if there is deterioration in our key financial ratios or credit ratings. Current or worsening economic conditions may impact the ability of our customers (including governments) to pay for our products and services and the amount spent on healthcare generally, which could result in decreased demand for our products and services, declining cash flows, longer sales cycles, increased inventory levels, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could disrupt our ability to produce products. We continue to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece and Italy, which have experienced deterioration in credit and economic conditions. While global economic conditions have not significantly impacted our ability to collect receivables, liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses, and may also impact the stability of the U.S. dollar, Euro or Yuan. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. Events, such as changes to our expectations, strategy or forecasts (including as a result of evolving global macroeconomic conditions and updated expectations regarding the timing of new regulatory approvals) or even a relatively small revenue shortfall or increase in supply chain or other costs which we are unable to offset may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, nor should they be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operating results and financial condition are also subject to fluctuation from all of the risks described throughout this section. These fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our stock price. We may not achieve our financial goals. We continue to evaluate and refine both our short-term and long-term financial objectives, including our stated commitment to achieve certain net leverage targets. Our ability to achieve these targets depends, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition (and related cost and revenue synergy targets) while working to execute on our stated portfolio management and other recently announced strategic initiatives. We may fail to achieve our targeted financial results if we are unsuccessful in implementing our strategies, our estimates or assumptions change or for any other reason. Our failure to achieve our financial goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred a substantial amount of debt in connection with the Hillrom acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We incurred acquisition-related debt financing of approximately $11.8 billion to fund the cash consideration for the Hillrom acquisition, refinance certain indebtedness of Hillrom and pay related fees and expenses. Our substantially increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following the acquisition has the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and has increased our borrowing costs (including as a result of the downgrade in our senior debt credit ratings in 2021). The increased levels of indebtedness and our recent projected financial performance could also reduce funds available (under our credit facilities or otherwise) for investments in product development, capital expenditures, dividend payments, acquisitions, share repurchases and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. In addition, until we achieve our commitment to reduce our indebtedness following the Hillrom acquisition, our capital allocation activities and operational flexibility is limited. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so on a timely basis or at all. 13 Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. We generate the majority of our revenue and profit outside the United States. As a result, our financial results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or our ability to mitigate these risks. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, additional volatility as a result of inflation and other macroeconomic factors, including in emerging market countries. We are also exposed to changes in interest rates, and our ability to access the money markets and capital markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all, could be impeded if market conditions are not favorable. For more information see “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7 of this Annual Report. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: • market perceptions of any strategic actions or other developments related to our business we announce, including, for example, our announcement regarding the proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories; • variations in our net sales, earnings or other financial results from investors’ expectations or our previously issued guidance; • departure of key personnel; • fluctuations in the results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers; and • the operating and stock performance of comparable companies or related industries. In addition, prices in the stock market have generally been volatile over the past few years. In certain cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. As a result, the price of our common stock could also fluctuate in the future without regard to our operating performance. Future material impairments in the value of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, could negatively affect our operating results. We regularly review our long-lived assets, including identifiable intangible assets, goodwill (which results from our acquisition activity) and property, plant and equipment, for impairment. Goodwill and acquired indefinite life intangible assets are subject to impairment review on an annual basis and whenever potential impairment indicators are present. Other long-lived assets are reviewed when there is an indication that impairment may have occurred. Changes in market conditions or other changes in the future outlook of value may lead to impairment charges in the future. In addition, we may from time to time sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy, including in connection with strategic exits. Future events or decisions may lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. Certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. Material impairment charges could negatively affect our results of operations. For example, in the third quarter of 2022, we recorded a $2.8 billion goodwill impairment relating to our three Hillrom reporting units due to macroeconomic conditions, including the rising interest rate environment and broad declines in equity valuations, and reduced earnings forecasts for these units, driven primarily by shortages of certain component parts used in our products, raw materials inflation and increased supply chain costs. Further adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions or our earnings forecasts could lead to additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods and such charges could be material to our results of operations. For more information on the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, see “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 of this Annual Report. Other Risks Relating to Our Business The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have had, and we expect will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business. The nature and extent of future impacts are uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 has had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse impact on 14 our operations, supply chains and distribution systems and has increased and will continue to increase our expenses, including due to preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments have taken and may continue to take. COVID-19 has adversely affected and many continue to adversely affect our business in many ways, including, but not limited to, the following: • We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant and unpredictable reductions or increases in demand for certain of our products as healthcare customers re-prioritize the treatment of patients. Some of our products are particularly sensitive to reductions in elective medical procedures. For example, due to the spread of the Omicron variant in 2022, many elective procedures were suspended or postponed in our principal markets as hospital systems prioritized treatment of COVID-19 patients again or otherwise comply with changing government guidelines. Further delays or cancellations may occur in the future. While we have started to see a resurgence in the scheduling of elective procedures in at least some of the markets in which we operate, if patients and hospital systems de-prioritize, delay or cancel elective procedures in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected.  Additionally, through the pandemic, certain portions of our patient populations (including End Stage Renal Disease patients) have experienced heightened mortality levels. Demand for related products and services may not rebound to pre-pandemic levels in light of these increased mortality rates. • A significant number of our suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and vendors have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including obstacles relating to their ability to maintain the continuity of their on-site operations. These impacts have caused interruptions and delays in our supply chain, and may continue to do so, resulting in more expensive alternative sources of labor and materials and heightened supply chain costs. Any delay or shortage in the supply of components or materials or other operational or logistical challenges impacts our ability to satisfy consumer demand for our products in a timely manner or at all, which could harm our reputation, future sales and profitability. For example, we have experienced supply constraints for amino acid raw materials used in our parenteral nutrition products, as such materials are being used to produce COVID-19 vaccines. These constraints have resulted in certain product backorders and may do so in the future. • We could experience a loss of sales and profitability due to delayed payments, reduced demand or capital constraints of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers (including potential insolvency) and suppliers and vendors facing liquidity or other financial issues. These liquidity or other financial issues could be exacerbated if prolonged high levels of unemployment or loss of insurance coverage impact patients’ ability to access treatments that use our products and services. • COVID-19 has adversely impacted the continued service and availability of skilled personnel necessary to run our operations. For example, we have faced increased absenteeism in connection with the rise of various COVID-19 variants. Although we have sought to mitigate these staffing challenges through overtime and enlisting contingent labor, staffing shortages have strained our operations and increased our expenses. • We face increased operational challenges as we continue to take measures to support and protect employee health and safety, including through work from home policies. While many of our employees have returned to work, remote or hybrid working arrangements heighten our risks associated with information technology systems and networks, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious software, security breaches, and telecommunication failures, both for systems and networks we control directly and for those that employees and third-party developers rely on to work remotely. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches or cyber risks or detect, or respond adequately to, a security breach or cyber risk, or any other disruptions to our information technology systems and networks (as a result of remote working arrangements or otherwise), can have adverse effects on our business and cause reputational and financial harm. Any of these and other impacts of the pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the scope and duration of any future public health crisis will depend on a number of factors, including the potential emergence of new variants, the pace at which government restrictions are imposed and lifted and the extent of such restrictions, the scope of additional actions taken to mitigate the spread of disease, the availability, effectiveness and acceptance of vaccines and the speed and extent to which global markets and utilization rates for our products fully recover from the disruptions caused by such a public health crisis. The impact of these and other factors on our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence. Finally, to the extent COVID-19 or any future public health 15 crisis adversely affects our operations and global economic conditions more generally, many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section may be heightened. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to keep pace with changing consumer preferences and needs and advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We need to successfully introduce new products to achieve our strategic business objectives. We can provide no assurances that our new products will achieve commercial acceptance in the marketplace. In addition, difficulties in manufacturing or in obtaining regulatory approvals, have delayed and may in the future delay or prohibit introduction of new products into the marketplace. We may not be able to obtain patent protection on our new products or be able to defend our intellectual property rights globally. Warranty claims and service costs relating to our new products might be greater than anticipated, and we might be required to devote significant resources to address any quality issues associated with our new products, which could reduce the resources available for further new product development and other matters. In addition, the introduction of new products might also cause customers to defer purchases of existing products. Our future financial performance will also depend in part on our ability to influence, anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and needs. We might not correctly anticipate or identify trends in customer preferences or needs or might identify them later than competitors do. Failure to successfully introduce new products in a cost-effective manner, or delays in customer purchasing decisions related to the evaluation of new products, could cause us to lose market share and could materially adversely affect our business. Furthermore, product development requires substantial investment and there is inherent risk in the R&D process. A successful product development process further depends on many other factors, including our ability to adapt to new technologies, demonstrate satisfactory clinical results and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. If we cannot successfully introduce new competitive products or adapt to changing technologies, our products may become obsolete and our revenue and profitability could suffer. Issues with product supply or quality could have an adverse effect on our business or cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products, among other negative consequences. Our success depends upon the availability and quality of our products and the underlying raw materials and component parts. The medical products and pharmaceutical industries are competitive and subject to complex market dynamics and varying demand levels. These levels vary in response to economic conditions, regulatory requirements, seasonality, natural disasters, pandemics, epidemics and other matters. For example, for many of our suppliers, the COVID-19 pandemic created obstacles relating to their ability to maintain the continuity of their on-site operations. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, increases in the cost of certain raw materials and component parts and have incurred, and may continue to incur, increased freight costs as a result of, among other things, rising and high levels of inflation, increased energy and transportation prices as a result of the Russia-Ukraine conflict and other obstacles due to the COVID-19 pandemic. These obstacles may prevent suppliers from providing goods and services to us on reasonable terms or at all. Additionally, the development of new or enhanced products involves a lengthy regulatory process and is capital intensive. As a result, our ability to match our production levels and capacity to market demand is imprecise and may result in a failure to meet market demand or satisfy customer requirements for our products or, alternatively, an oversupply of inventory. Increased costs relating to freight, raw materials or component parts and difficulties hiring and retaining staff have had and may continue to have a negative impact on product supply. Failure to meet market demand may result in customers transitioning to available competitive products, loss of market share, negative publicity, reputational damage, loss of customer confidence or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price). Our success also depends on our ability to maintain and routinely improve product quality and our quality management program. Quality management plays an essential role in meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, improving our products and services and assuring the safety and efficacy of our products. While we have a quality system that covers the lifecycle of our products, quality and safety issues have and may in the future occur with respect to our products. New or unintended uses of our products (for example, in response to changing clinical practice) may also raise quality or safety issues. A quality or safety issue may result in adverse inspection reports, voluntary or official action indicated, warning letters, import bans, product recalls (either voluntary or required by FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries) or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions (which may include corporate integrity agreements), costly litigation, refusal of a government to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. See “-Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” An inability to 16 address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence in us or our current or future products, which may result in the loss of sales and difficulty in successfully launching new products. Additionally, we have made and continue to make significant investments in assets, including inventory and property, plant and equipment, which relate to potential new products or modifications to existing products. Product quality or safety issues may restrict us from being able to realize the expected returns from these investments, potentially resulting in asset impairments in the future. Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods and services to our R&D, clinical and manufacturing organizations, many of whom do so on a spot basis and not pursuant to a contractual arrangement. Our ability to receive goods or services at all or on reasonable financial terms from these third parties will be impacted if they are unable or refuse to supply or service us. Moreover, we may have limited or no recourse if the goods or services are not subject to contractual terms. If we are unable to identify or secure regulatory approval for an alternative provider on reasonable terms, our ability to meet our obligations to our customers could be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our financial results and our reputation. Additionally, third party suppliers are required to comply with our quality standards (and those of applicable regulatory bodies). Failure of a third-party supplier to provide compliant raw materials, component parts or supplies (or to help us secure all required regulatory approvals for the use of their products or services) has resulted in delays and service interruptions and may do so in the future or cause quality related issues that may negatively impact our business results. There is substantial competition in the product markets in which we operate and the risk of declining demand and pricing pressures could adversely affect our operating results. Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in all of our markets from international and domestic healthcare medical products and pharmaceutical companies and providers of all sizes, and these competitors often differ across our businesses. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance and technological innovation. Competition may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. If our competitors respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or we do not introduce new versions or upgrades to our product portfolio in response to those requirements, our products may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive. If our competitors develop more effective or affordable products or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our business, financial condition and operations will likely be negatively affected. If we are forced to reduce our prices due to increased competition, our business could become less profitable. In addition, many healthcare industry companies, including healthcare systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. As the healthcare industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. Further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. If we face an increase in costs or must reduce (or are unable to successfully increase) our prices because of industry consolidation. the long-term nature of our customer contracts or for other reasons, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Demand for our products and services depends in large part on overall demand in the healthcare market. With the healthcare market’s increased focus on hospital asset and resource efficiency as well as reimbursement constraints, we have seen spending for some of our products decline recently and it may continue to do so over time. Further, the competitive pressures in our industry could cause us to lose market share unless we increase our commercial investments or reduce our prices, which could adversely impact our operating results. These factors, along with possible legislative, regulatory and other developments, might result in significant shifts in market share among the industry’s major participants, which includes us. Accordingly, if we are unable to effectively differentiate ourselves from our competitors in terms of new products and diversification of our product portfolio, then our market share, sales and profitability could be adversely impacted through lower volume or decreased prices. If we fail to attract and retain key employees our business may suffer. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, including people in senior management, sales, marketing, information technology and R&D positions and from the recently acquired Hillrom business. Competition for top talent in the healthcare industry can be intense. Our ability to recruit and retain such talent will depend on a number of factors, including hiring practices of our competitors, compensation and benefits (as may be impacted by any financial performance challenges), work location, work environment (including our competitors’ policies regarding remote or hybrid work arrangements, the market’s perception of our recently 17 announced strategic initiatives and industry economic conditions. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified employees, our business could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business Operations Segments of our business are significantly dependent on major contracts with GPOs, IDNs, and certain other distributors and purchasers. A portion of our U.S. hospital sales and rentals are made pursuant to contracts with hospital GPOs. At any given time, we are typically at various stages of responding to bids, negotiating and renewing expiring GPO agreements. Failure to be included in certain of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, including product sales and service and rental revenue. In addition, we have faced and continue to face challenges related to increasing costs associated with these agreements (associated with ongoing supply chain challenges and inflation), which have negatively impacted our revenues and may continue to do so in the future. Our participation in such programs often requires increased discounting or restrictions on our ability to raise prices, and failure to participate or to be selected for participation in such programs might result in a reduction of sales to the member hospitals. In addition, the industry is showing an increased focus on contracting directly with health systems or IDNs (which typically represent influential members and owners of GPOs). IDNs and health systems often make key purchasing decisions and have influence over the GPO’s contract decisions, and often request additional discounts or other enhancements. Further, certain other distributors and purchasers have similar processes to the GPOs and IDNs and failure to be included in agreements with these other purchasers could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and might experience business disruptions and adverse tax consequences associated with restructuring, realignment and cost reduction activities. Portions of our business have been, and may in the future be, the subject of restructuring, realignment and cost reduction initiatives. For example, we continue to work to successfully integrate Hillrom into our operations and we recently announced our plans to implement a simplified operating model and manufacturing footprint. While we initiate these actions with the goal of realizing efficiencies, we may not be successful in achieving the full efficiencies and cost reduction benefits we expect. Further, such benefits might be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures might be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful or sustainable, we might undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans might be adversely affected, and we could experience business disruptions, if our restructuring and realignment efforts and our cost reduction activities prove ineffective. These actions, the resulting costs, and potential delays or potential lower than anticipated benefits might also impact our foreign tax positions and might require us to record tax reserves against certain deferred tax assets in our international business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or for a cost-effective price or if we experience other manufacturing, sterilization, supply or distribution difficulties, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The manufacture of our products requires, among other things, the timely supply or delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We manufacture our products in approximately 60 principal manufacturing locations. We acquire our components, materials and other requirements for manufacturing from many suppliers and vendors in various countries, including sometimes from ourselves for self-supplied requirements. We endeavor, either alone or working closely with our suppliers, to ensure the continuity of our inputs and supplies but we cannot guarantee these efforts will always be successful. Further, while efforts are made to diversify certain of our sources of components and materials, in certain instances there is only a sole source or supplier with no alternatives yet identified. Additionally, we obtain certain components and materials on a spot basis from third party suppliers with whom we do not have a contractual arrangement. For most of our components and materials for which a single source or supplier is used, alternative sources or suppliers may exist, but we have made a strategic determination to use the single source or supplier. Although we do carry strategic inventory and maintain insurance to help mitigate the potential risk related to supply disruption, such measures may not be sufficient or effective. A reduction, interruption or suspension in supply, other supply chain issues, including those due to the revocation of distribution facilities’ licenses or as a result of our recently announced strategic initiatives, and our inability to quickly develop acceptable alternative sources for such supply could adversely affect our ability to manufacture, distribute and sell our products in a timely or cost-effective manner. We have faced difficulties obtaining supplies of key materials such 18 as electromechanical components, active ingredients for pharmaceuticals and resins due to supply chain disruptions and the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, changes in regulation, world trade policies, international taxes and government-to-government relations and issues with export and import activities could negatively impact our ability to distribute products within a country and across countries. See “-Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” Additionally, volatility in our costs of energy, transportation/freight, components, raw materials and other supply, manufacturing and distribution costs have had and could in the future adversely affect our results of operations. These prices might continue to fluctuate based on many factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in general economic conditions (including inflation), political unrest, labor costs, delivery costs, competition and currency exchange rates. Significant increases in the cost of raw materials, sub-assemblies or materials used in the production of our products that cannot be recovered through increased prices of our products (or the unavailability of those raw materials, sub-assemblies or production materials) have adversely affect our results of operations and may continue to do so in the future. There can be no assurance that the marketplace will support higher prices or that such prices and productivity gains will fully offset any commodity cost increases in the future. We may from time to time engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases but do enter into fixed price supply contracts at times. Future decisions not to engage in hedging transactions or ineffective hedging transactions might result in increased cost volatility, potentially adversely impacting our profitability. Many of our products are difficult to manufacture. This is due to the complex nature of manufacturing devices and pharmaceuticals, including biologics, as well as the strict regulatory regime governing our manufacturing operations. Variations in the manufacturing process may result in production failures which could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in a quality or safety issue of the type discussed above. Some of our products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility or stored at a single storage site. Additionally, some of our manufacturing facilities are located in the same geographic area. Loss or damage to, or closure of, a manufacturing facility or storage site due to a natural disaster, such as we experienced as a result of Hurricane Maria, a pandemic, such as COVID-19, or otherwise could adversely affect our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of key products or deliver products to meet customer demand or contractual requirements, which may result in a loss of revenue and other adverse business consequences (including those identified in the paragraphs above). We might be unable to transfer manufacturing of the relevant products to another facility or location in a cost-effective or timely manner, if at all. This potential inability to transfer production could occur for several reasons, including but not limited to a lack of necessary relevant manufacturing capability at another facility, or the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other governmental regulatory bodies. Such an event could materially negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, several of our manufacturing facilities are leased and we may not be able to renew leases on favorable terms or at all. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis (if at all) to replace production capacity in the event we lose manufacturing capacity or products are otherwise unavailable. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our products require sterilization prior to sale or distribution, and we utilize both Baxter-owned and third-party facilities for this process. If an event occurs that results in damage to or closure, whether temporarily or permanent, of one or more of these facilities, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize the relevant products at prior levels or at all, and a third party may not be available on a timely basis (if at all) to replace sterilization capacity. For example, in 2021, our facility in Mountain Home, Arkansas, entered into a Consent Administrative Order with the Arkansas Division of Environmental Quality relating to certain air emission control technology used to reduce ethylene oxide-emissions from sterilization equipment. Although the events giving rise to the Consent Administrative Order only caused a temporary pause in operations, these events or other disruptions of manufacturing or sterilization processes that we or third parties may experience, whether due to lack of capacity, environmental, regulatory or compliance issues or otherwise, could result in product shortage, unanticipated costs, loss of revenues, litigation and damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The long-term effects of climate change are difficult to predict and may be widespread. The impacts of climate change may include physical risks (e.g., rising sea levels or frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions, including natural disasters), social and human effects (e.g., population dislocations or harm to health and well-being), compliance costs and transition risks (e.g., regulatory or technology changes), shifts in market trends (e.g., customers increasingly prioritize purchasing products that are sustainably made) and other adverse effects. Such impacts (including as a result of Hurricane Maria) have disrupted and may continue to disrupt our supply chain and operations by adversely affecting our ability to procure goods or services required for the operation of our business at the quantities and levels we require, due to impairment of the availability and cost of certain products, materials, commodities and energy. For example, material or sustained increases in the price of oil have had an adverse impact on the cost of many of the plastic materials or resins we use to make and package our products, as well as our transportation/freight costs. These outcomes may in turn result in customers transitioning to available competitive products, loss of market share, negative publicity, reputational damage, loss of customer confidence or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price). In addition, the increasing concern over climate change has resulted and may continue to result in more regional, federal, and/or global legal and regulatory requirements relating to climate change, including regulating greenhouse gas emissions (and the establishment of enhanced internal processes or systems to track them), alternative energy policies and sustainability initiatives. If legislation or regulations are enacted or promulgated in the United States or in any other jurisdictions in which we do business that impose more stringent restrictions and requirements than our current legal or regulatory obligations, we may experience disruptions in, or increases in the costs associated with, sourcing, manufacturing and distributing our products. Additionally, rising climate change concerns have led to and could continue to lead to additional regulation that could increase our compliance costs. As a result, any such regulatory changes could have a significant effect on our business, financial condition or result of operations. Breaches and breakdowns affecting our information technology systems or protected information, including from cyber security breaches and data leakage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and competitive position. We rely upon information technology systems and infrastructure, including services provided by our partners and third parties, to support our business, products and customers. For example, we routinely rely on technology systems and infrastructure in the collection, use, storage and transfer, disclosure and other processing of voluminous amounts of protected information including personal data (of patients, employees, customers, third parties), confidential, business, financial, personal and other sensitive information (collectively, Protected Information). We also rely on systems for manufacturing, customer orders, shipping, regulatory compliance and various other matters. Certain of our products and systems collect Protected Information regarding patients and their therapy and some are internet enabled or connect to our systems for maintenance and other purposes. The acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021 increased the number of these products and systems within our portfolio. Some of our products, even though not internet enabled nor connected to our systems, connect to hospital networks, electronic medical records or electronic health records. The continuing evolution of technology we use, including cloud-based computing and data hosting, and reliance on third parties creates additional opportunities for the unintentional, intentional, unauthorized or unlawful disclosure, exposure, dissemination, loss, alteration, access or destruction of Protected Information stored or processed in our devices, systems, servers, infrastructure and products (collectively, Technology). Security threats, including cyber and other attacks, have become very sophisticated, frequent and adaptive. Our Technology is vulnerable to breakdown, interruption, cyber and other security attacks, system malfunction, unauthorized access, inadvertent exposure or disclosure of information, theft and other events. Third-party systems that we rely upon could also become vulnerable to the same risks and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. Any such vulnerability could compromise our Technology and could expose Protected Information to unauthorized third parties and/or cause temporary or permanent loss or unavailability of such Protected Information. In addition, our Technology may cause product functionality issues that could result in risk to patient safety, field actions and/or product recalls. We have, like other large multi-national companies, experienced cyber incidents in the past and may experience them in the future, which have exposed and may continue to expose vulnerabilities in our information technology systems. Although the prior incidents have not had a material effect on our business and we have invested and continue to invest in the protection of data and Technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts have prevented or will prevent future breakdowns, attacks, breaches in our Technology, cyber incidents or other incidents or ensure compliance with all applicable security and privacy laws, regulations and standards, 20 including with respect to third-party service providers that host or process Protected Information on our behalf. Any failure to protect against such incidents can lead to substantial and material regulatory fines and penalties, business disruption, reputational harm, financial loss, litigation as well as other damages. Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property from any of the foregoing may have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. See “-Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” As the FDA, other regulators, including data protection authorities, and our customers become more sensitive to risks related to cybersecurity, our ability to meet certain information technology safety standards could affect our products’ marketability and competitiveness. We could also suffer strained relationships with customers, business partners, physicians and other healthcare professionals, increased costs (for security measures, remediation or otherwise), litigation (including class actions and stockholder derivative actions) or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price) from breaches, cyber and other security attacks, industrial espionage, ransomware, email or phishing scams, malware or other cyber incidents, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers or other business partners. In addition, significant implementation issues may arise as we continue to consolidate and outsource certain computer operations and application support activities (including as a result of our ongoing business transformation activities and in connection with the Hillrom integration and our recently announced strategic initiatives). Further, a number of our employees have hybrid work arrangements, which (among other things) exposes us to heightened risks related to our information technology systems and networks, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious software, security breaches, and telecommunication failures, both for systems and networks we control directly and for those that employees and third-party developers rely on to work remotely. We also face all of the same risks listed above and other heightened risks when acquiring a company, in particular if we need to transition or implement certain processes or controls with the acquired company. For example, as we continue to integrate Hillrom into our business, we have identified certain potential areas of vulnerability as we transition its information technology systems, products and processes to our processes and controls, including with respect to cybersecurity and privacy matters. While we working to fully address those vulnerabilities (consistent with our processes and controls) we do not believe any of them present any material risks to our business or operations (including with respect to our Technology). Any such vulnerabilities (or any others) if unidentified or unremediated could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include changes in exchange controls and other governmental actions, loss of business in government and public tenders that are held annually in many cases, increasingly complex labor environments, availability of raw materials and component parts, changes in taxation, tariffs, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of U.S. or local laws, dependence on a few government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic and political instability, monetary or currency volatility or instability (including as it relates to the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Yuan and currencies in emerging market countries (including the Turkish Lira)), disputes between countries, trade relationships and conflicts, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, and disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic region regardless of cause, including natural disaster, pandemic, power loss, cyber-attack, data breach, war, terrorism, riot, labor disruption, civil insurrection or social unrest. Failure to comply with, or material changes to, the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The escalating global economic competition and trade tensions between the U.S., China and Russia could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we have been able to mitigate some of the impact from increased duties imposed by these countries (through petitioning the governments for tariff exclusions and other mitigations), the risk remains of additional tariffs and other kinds of restrictions. Tariff exclusions awarded to us by the U.S. Government require annual renewal, and policies for granting exclusions could shift. The U.S., China and Russia could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect our access to the markets. More generally, several governments have raised the possibility of policies to induce “re-shoring” of supply chains, less reliance on imported supplies and greater national production. For example, the Chinese government has issued a series of policies in the past several years to promote local medical devices or suggest government procurement budgets for local products. Another example would be the stronger “Buy American” requirements in the U.S. (pursuant to a U.S. executive order by the Administration on January 25, 2021) or the potential U.S. withdrawal from the World Trade Organization Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA). If such steps triggered retaliation in other markets, such as by restricting access to foreign products in purchases by their government- 21 owned healthcare systems the outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Some of our employees both in and outside of the United States (including contingent workers) work under collective bargaining agreements or national trade union agreements or are subject to works councils. Although we have not recently experienced any significant work stoppages as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Two collective bargaining agreements for one of our U.S. manufacturing facilities are scheduled to expire in January 2024 and January 2025, respectively. Our inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at any of our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We are subject to a number of laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the United States. Laws and regulations include the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (H.R. 3590) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872) (collectively, the Healthcare Reform Act) which aim to decrease costs through comparative effectiveness research and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies. Compliance with these and similar regulations could result in pricing pressure or negatively impact the demand for our products. In a number of situations, even though specific laws and regulations may not directly apply to us, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. The manufacture, distribution, marketing and use of our products are subject to extensive regulation and scrutiny by FDA and other regulatory authorities globally. Any new product must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. The same testing and procedures sometimes apply to current products that are up for authorization or renewal or are subject to changes in laws or regulations. For example, our medical devices that are being sold or distributed in the European Union have to comply with the European Union Medical Device Regulation that entered into force in May 2021. This Medical Device Regulation currently provides a phase in period for manufacturers to comply with related regulations through May 2024. These regulations require companies that wish to manufacture and distribute medical devices in EU member states to meet certain quality system and safety requirements and ongoing product monitoring responsibilities, and obtain a “CE” marking (i.e., a mandatory conformity marking for certain products sold within the European Economic Area) for their products. Various penalties exist for non-compliance with the laws implementing the European Medical Device Regulations which, if incurred, could have a material adverse impact on portions of our business, results of operations and cash flows. Changes to current products may be subject to vigorous review, including additional FDA 510(k) and other regulatory submissions, and approvals or the time needed to secure approvals are not certain. Our facilities must be approved and licensed prior to production and remain subject to inspection from time to time thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, has resulted and could result in adverse inspection reports, voluntary or official action indicated, warning letters, import bans, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, reputational damage, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. The failure of our suppliers to comply with regulations could also adversely affect segments of our business as regulatory actions taken by FDA against those manufacturers can result in product shortages, recalls or modifications. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales. Our business is also subject to risks associated with U.S. and foreign legislation, regulations and trade agreements relating to the materials we import, including quotas, duties, tariffs or taxes, other charges or restrictions on imports and the nature of materials that can be used in our products, which could adversely affect our operations and our ability to import materials used in our products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict whether additional U.S. and foreign customs quotas, duties (including antidumping or countervailing duties), tariffs, taxes or other charges or restrictions, requirements as to where raw materials and component parts must be purchased, additional 22 workplace regulations or other restrictions on our imports will be imposed in the future or adversely modified, or what effect such actions would have on our costs of operations. Future quotas, duties or tariffs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Future trade agreements could also provide our competitors with an advantage over us, or increase our costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The sales, marketing and pricing of products and relationships that medical device and pharmaceutical companies have with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny by federal, state and foreign government agencies. Compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute, False Claims Act, Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (including as these laws relate to off-label promotion of products) and other healthcare related laws, as well as competition and export and import laws, is under increased focus by the agencies charged with overseeing such activities. The DOJ and the SEC are focused on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), particularly as it relates to the conduct of medical product and pharmaceutical companies. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Healthcare professionals in many countries are employed by the government and consequently may be considered government officials. Foreign governments are also focused on examining medical product and pharmaceutical companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships with healthcare providers and competitive practices generally. The laws and standards governing the promotion, pricing, sale and reimbursement of our products and those governing our relationships with healthcare providers and governments, including the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, are complicated, are subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. We are also subject to environmental laws, which are becoming more stringent throughout the world. For example, the EPA regulates the use of ethylene oxide for sterilization of medical devices and is increasingly focused on reducing emissions from the ethylene oxide sterilization process, which has increased our costs of operations and necessitated changes to our manufacturing plants and processes. Additionally, the European Economic Area (EEA) has placed a sunset date for the use of Bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP); and the EEA is considering regulations on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) and fluorinated gases. These regulatory changes could adversely impact on our ability to manufacture or supply certain products in the EEA. Other environmental laws may have similar consequences to us or our suppliers, or result in liability to us. Additionally, the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Control and the Bureau of Industry and Security at the U.S. Department of Commerce administer laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business or making investments in certain countries, or with governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. From time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings with countries subject to these sanctions, including Iran, Sudan, Syria, Russia and Cuba. These dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income but expose us to an increased risk of operating in these countries, including foreign exchange risks or restrictions or limitations on our ability to access funds generated in these jurisdictions, or the risk of violating applicable sanctions or regulations, which are complex and subject to frequent change. Our compliance programs, training, monitoring and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees that violate these laws. Violations or allegations of violations of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment or exclusion from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The laws and regulations discussed above are broad in scope and subject to evolving interpretations and changes, which may be violated unknowingly, could require us to incur substantial costs regarding compliance or to alter our sales and marketing practices and may subject us to enforcement actions or litigation which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict with certainty what laws, regulations and healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented, or what the ultimate effect of healthcare reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. For more information related to ongoing government investigations, see Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report. For more information on regulatory matters currently affecting us, including quality-related matters, see “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and security issues and expanding laws could impact our business and expose us to increased liability. As a global company, we are subject to global data privacy and security laws, regulations and codes of conduct that apply to our businesses. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing legal and regulatory requirements that govern the collection, use, storage, security, transfer, disclosure and other processing of personal 23 data in the United States and in other countries, including, but not limited to, The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended (HIPAA), The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the newly revised NIS2 Directive, a European Union wide cybersecurity legislation (which will be fully in force in 2024). The GDPR imposes stringent European Union data protection requirements and provides for significant penalties for noncompliance (including heightened fines as compared to prior years). HIPAA also imposes stringent data privacy and security requirements and the regulatory authority has imposed significant fines and penalties on organizations found to be out of compliance. CCPA provides consumers with a private right of action against companies who have a security breach due to lack of appropriate security measures. More states (including Colorado, Connecticut, Utah and Virginia) plan to introduce similar legislation in 2023. We or our third-party providers and business partners may also be subjected to audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, and noncompliance with the laws and regulations could result in substantial and material fines or class action litigation. If reimbursement or other payment for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the United States or in foreign countries, including through the implementation or repeal of government-sponsored healthcare reform or other similar actions, cost containment measures, or changes to policies with respect to pricing, taxation or rebates, our business could suffer. Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by both public and private payers. These payers include Medicare, Medicaid, and private healthcare insurers in the United States and foreign governments and third-party payers outside the United States. Our work with government payers carries various risks inherent in working with government entities and agencies, including government reporting and auditing, additional regulatory oversight, mandated contractual terms, failure of government appropriations or other complex procedural requirements. Public and private payers are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We may continue to experience downward pricing pressures from any or all of these payers which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operational results. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such as price controls, the formation of public contracting authorities, product formularies, which are lists of recommended or approved products, and competitive tenders which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payers. In much of Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia, the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and controls its expenditures by purchasing products through public tenders, collective purchasing, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public tenders or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products. For example, China has been implementing volume-based procurement policies, a series of centralized reforms being instituted in China on both a national and regional basis that has resulted in significant price cuts for pharmaceuticals and medical consumables. Additionally, austerity measures or other reforms by foreign governments may limit, reduce or eliminate payments for our products and adversely affect both pricing flexibility and demand for our products. In addition, our recent acquisition of Hillrom has increased our exposure to risks related to reimbursement as certain portions of that business directly bill various government agencies. The Healthcare Reform Act includes several provisions which impact our businesses in the United States, including increased Medicaid rebates and an expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program which provides certain qualified entities with discounts on the purchase of drugs for outpatient use and an excise tax on the sale of certain drugs. The Healthcare Reform Act reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals and other providers, which may cause us to experience downward pricing pressure. Certain portions of the Healthcare Reform Act could negatively impact the demand for our products, and therefore our results of operations and financial position. In 2019, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services launched a new kidney health initiative. The CMS published the final End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) Treatment Choices (ETC) mandatory payment model in 2020. The ETC launched in 30% of dialysis clinics across the country on January 1, 2021 and creates payment incentives for the greater use of home dialysis and kidney transplants for those new to and already on dialysis. CMS also announced the implementation of four voluntary payment models with the stated goal of helping healthcare providers reduce the cost and improve the quality of care for patients with late-stage chronic kidney disease and ESRD. CMS has stated these payment models are aimed to prevent or delay the need for dialysis and encourage kidney transplantation. CMS launched the program on January 1, 2022, at which time 85 entities were enrolled as 24 participants. These proposed regulatory changes in kidney health policy and reimbursement may substantially change the U.S. end stage renal disease market and could increase demand for our peritoneal dialysis products, necessitating significant multi-year capital expenditures in order to meet that demand. However, the impact of such changes and related expenses are difficult to estimate in advance. In addition, a substantial portion of our revenues is dependent on federal healthcare program reimbursement, and any disruptions in federal government operations, including a federal government shutdown or failure of the U.S. government to enact annual appropriations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruptions in federal government operations may negatively impact regulatory approvals and guidance that are important to our operations and create uncertainty about the pace of upcoming healthcare regulatory developments or approvals. As a result of these and other measures, including future measures or reforms that cannot be predicted, reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time and in ways that may be adverse to us. We cannot predict the impact of these pressures and initiatives, or any negative effects of any additional regulations that may affect our business. We could be subject to fines or damages and possible exclusion from participation in federal or state healthcare programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business. Portions of our business are subject to stringent laws and regulations at the federal or state levels governing the participation of durable medical equipment suppliers and independent diagnostic testing facilities in federal and state healthcare programs. From time to time, the government seeks additional information related to our claims submissions, and in some instances government contractors perform audits of payments made to us under Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal healthcare programs. On occasion, these reviews identify overpayments for which we submit refunds. At other times, our own internal audits identify the need to refund payments. We believe the frequency and intensity of government audits and review processes has grown and we expect this will continue in the future, due to increased resources allocated to these activities at both the federal and state Medicaid level, and greater sophistication in data review techniques. In addition, our business contracts with foreign and U.S. federal, state and local government entities and is subject to specific rules, regulations and approvals applicable to government contractors. Our failure to comply with these could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with these entities, civil fines and damages, criminal prosecution and possible exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as possible recoupment of any overpayments related to such violations. While we believe that our practices materially comply with applicable state and federal requirements, the requirements might be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our interpretation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, even if inadvertent, could have a material adverse impact on our business. If we are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged. Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the United States and in other countries. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patents issued or licensed will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, that our patents will not be found to be invalid or that the intellectual property rights of others will not prevent us from selling certain products or including key features in our products. The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third parties. An unfavorable litigation outcome in any of these types of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the ability to market products, which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect future results of operations. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. Third parties may know, discover or independently develop equivalent proprietary information or techniques, or they may gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Although our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners are generally subject to confidentiality or similar agreements to protect our confidential and proprietary information, these 25 agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Furthermore, our intellectual property, proprietary technology and sensitive company data is potentially vulnerable to loss, damage or misappropriation from system malfunction, computer viruses and unauthorized access to our data or misappropriation or misuse thereof by those with permitted access and other events. While we have invested to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other data, and continue to work diligently in this area, there can be no assurance that our precautionary measures have prevented or will prevent future breakdowns, breaches, cyber incidents or other events. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results. Changes to the tax laws in the United States or other countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For example, the outcome of various initiatives currently being undertaken by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, and the implementation of such initiatives by taxing authorities across the world, could significantly impact how we allocate profits across multiple jurisdictions, which could adversely impact our global tax obligations. Taxing authorities audit us from time to time and may disagree with certain positions we have taken in respect of our tax liabilities. Our tax liabilities are affected by many factors, including the amounts we charge in intra-company transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items, which are subject to the use of assumptions and judgment. Because we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States, cross border transactions among our affiliates are a significant part of the manner in which we operate. Although we believe that we transact intra-company business in accordance with arm's-length principles, tax authorities may disagree with our intra-company charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result, including in connection with their review of the restated financial statements we have filed as part of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, we may not accurately predict the outcome of these audits and, as a result, the actual outcome of these audits may have an adverse impact on our financial results. For more information on ongoing audits, see Note 13 in Item 8 of this Annual Report. We are party to a number of pending lawsuits and other disputes which may have an adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. We are party to a number of pending lawsuits, settlement discussions, mediations, arbitrations and other disputes, many of which are set forth in Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report. In addition, in the future we may be party to additional lawsuits, disputes or other matters, including patent, product liability or other lawsuits. These current and future matters may result in a loss of patent protection, reduced revenue, incurrence of significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. Given the uncertain nature of litigation and other disputes generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in our current matters. In view of these uncertainties, the outcome of these current matters may result in charges in excess of any established reserves, and, to the extent available, liability insurance. We also continue to be self-insured with respect to product liability claims. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for current or future claims increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Protracted litigation and other disputes, including any adverse outcomes, may have an adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition as of December 31, 2021 and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, is included in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. 29 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Description of the Company and Business Segments Baxter International Inc. is a global medical technology with approximately 60,000 employees worldwide who are engaged in the development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products, digital health solutions and therapies used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors’ offices and patients at home under physician supervision. Our global footprint and the critical nature of our products and services, which are sold in over 100 countries, play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. We manage our global operations based on four segments, consisting of the following geographic segments related to our legacy Baxter business: Americas, EMEA and APAC, and a global segment for our recently acquired Hillrom business. As discussed below under “Recently Announced Strategic Actions,” we are designing a new operating model intended to simplify and streamline our operations and we expect that our reportable segments will be changed to align with that new operating model when it is fully implemented. Our Americas, EMEA and APAC segments provide a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products, including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; and surgical hemostat and sealant products. Our Hillrom segment provides digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices and advanced equipment for the surgical space. For financial information about our segments, see Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Financial Results Our global net sales totaled $15.1 billion in 2022, an increase of 18% over 2021 on a reported and 23% on a constant currency basis. International sales totaled $7.9 billion in 2022, an increase of 4% compared to 2021 on a reported basis and 12% on a constant currency basis. Sales in the United States totaled $7.2 billion in 2022, an increase of 39% compared to 2021.  Refer to the Net Sales discussion in the Results of Operations section below for more information related to changes in net sales on a constant currency basis. Net income (loss) attributable to Baxter stockholders totaled a loss of $2.4 billion, or $(4.83) per diluted share, in 2022.  Net income (loss) in 2022 included special items which adversely impacted our results by $4.2 billion, or $8.33 per diluted share.  Our special items, which included $3.2 billion of goodwill and intangible asset impairments in 2022, are discussed in the Results of Operations section below. Our financial results included R&D expenses totaling $605 million in 2022, which reflects our focus on balancing investments to support our new product pipeline with efforts to optimize overall R&D spending (including with respect to the maintenance of our portfolio). While we continue to face continuing global macroeconomic challenges, our financial position remains strong, with operating cash flows from continuing operations totaling $1.2 billion in 2022. We have continued to execute on our disciplined capital allocation framework, as discussed in the Business Strategy section in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is designed to optimize stockholder value creation through reinvestment in our businesses, dividends and share repurchases, as well as acquisitions and other business development initiatives and consistent with our previously stated commitment to achieve our net leverage targets. Capital expenditures totaled $679 million in 2022 as we continue to invest across our businesses to support future growth, including additional investments in support of new and existing product capacity expansions. Our investments in capital expenditures in 2022 were focused on projects that improve production efficiency, invest in our quality systems and enhance manufacturing capabilities to support our business growth. We also continued to return value to our stockholders. During 2022, we paid cash dividends to our stockholders totaling $573 million. Additionally, in 2022 we repurchased 0.5 million shares through cash repurchases pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan. For information on our share repurchase plans, see Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 30 Recently Announced Strategic Actions In January 2023, we announced the following planned strategic actions that are intended to enhance our operational effectiveness, accelerate innovation and drive additional stockholder value: (a) a proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories into an independent publicly traded company focused on kidney care (the proposed spinoff), (b) our development of a new operating model to simplify our operations and (c) our pursuit of strategic alternatives (including a potential sale) for our BioPharma Solutions (BPS) product category. This proposed spinoff is currently expected to be completed during the first half of 2024, approximately 12 to 18 months from the date of the related announcement. In 2022 we generated $4.4 billion of combined net sales from our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories, representing approximately 29% of our consolidated net sales. Additionally, in 2022 we generated $644 million of net sales from our BPS product category, representing approximately 4% of our consolidated net sales. During 2023 and the first quarter of 2024, we expect to incur significant separation and transaction-related costs related to the proposed spinoff and our pursuit of strategic alternatives (including a potential sale) for our BPS product category, which will adversely impact our earnings and operating cash flows. Additionally, we expect to incur some amount of dis-synergies following those transactions due to the reduced size of our company and, as a result, we will need to undertake actions to ensure that our cost structure is appropriate to support our remaining businesses. There can be no guarantees that the proposed spinoff, the simplified operating model or the sale of, or other strategic transaction involving, our BPS product category will be completed in the manner or over the timeframes described above, or at all. We are also designing a new operating model intended to simplify and streamline our operations and better align our manufacturing footprint and supply chain to our commercial activities. The new operating model will have significant impacts on our systems and processes across our entire company and we expect to have those broader operational changes, including our updated management reporting framework for the new operating model, fully implemented during the second half of 2023. At that time, we expect that our reportable segments will be changed to align with the new operating model. FACTORS AFFECTING OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Supply Constraints and Global Economic Conditions We have experienced significant challenges to our global supply chain in recent periods, including production delays and interruptions, increased costs and shortages of raw materials and component parts (including resins and electromechanical devices) and higher transportation costs, resulting from the pandemic and other exogenous factors including significant weather events, elevated inflation levels, disruptions to certain ports of call around the world, the war in Ukraine and other geopolitical events. Due to the nature of our products, which include dense consumable medical products such as IV fluids, and the geographic locations of our manufacturing facilities, which often require us to transport our products long distances, we may be more susceptible to increases in freight costs and other supply chain challenges than certain of our industry peers. We expect to experience some of these and other challenges related to our supply chain in future periods. These challenges, including the unavailability of certain raw materials and component parts, have also had a negative impact on our sales for certain product categories (including those acquired in the Hillrom acquisition) due to our inability to fully satisfy demand and may continue to have a negative impact on our sales in the future. Our results of operations are also affected by macroeconomic conditions and levels of business confidence. The war in Ukraine and the sanctions and other measures being imposed in response to this conflict have increased the levels of economic and political uncertainty. In response, we continue to monitor the developing situation with respect to ongoing business in Russia and are working on appropriate contingency plans that will support our desire to serving existing, chronically ill patient populations while remaining compliant with all applicable U.S. and European Union sanctions and regulations. While Russia and Ukraine do not constitute a material portion of our business, a significant escalation or expansion of economic disruption or the conflict’s current scope could have an adverse effect on our business. 31 In addition, the existence of inflation in the United States and in many of the countries where we conduct business has resulted in, and may continue to result in, higher interest rates and capital costs, shipping costs, increased costs of labor, weakening exchange rates and other similar effects. We have experienced and may continue to experience inflationary increases in manufacturing costs and operating expenses as well as negative impacts from weakening exchange rates, caused by the COVID-19 pandemic or as a result of general macroeconomic factors, and may not be able to pass these cost increases on to our customers in a timely manner or at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and results of operations. Inflation and general macroeconomic factors have caused certain of our customers to reduce or delay orders for our products and services and could cause them to do so in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and results of operations. COVID-19 Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and epidemics/pandemics, such as the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19). COVID-19 has had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations, supply chains and distribution systems and has increased and we expect will continue to increase our expenses. Over the course of the pandemic, our business has been impacted by shifting healthcare priorities and significant volatility in the demand for our products. For further information about our revenues by product category, refer to Note 10 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Significant uncertainty remains regarding the duration and overall impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Concerns remain regarding the pace of economic recovery due to virus resurgence across the globe from the Omicron variants, subvariants and other virus mutations as well as vaccine distribution and hesitancy. The U.S. and other governments may continue existing measures or implement new restrictions and other requirements in the future (including moratoriums on elective procedures and mandatory quarantines and travel restrictions), resulting in higher levels of absenteeism, including at our manufacturing and distribution facilities. Due to the uncertainty caused by the pandemic (including whether hospital admissions, elective procedures and demand for certain of our products and services will return to pre-pandemic levels), our operating performance and financial results, particularly in the short term, may be subject to volatility. We expect that the challenges caused by the pandemic as well as global economic conditions, among other factors, may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. For further discussion, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Business Combinations and Asset Acquisitions Zosyn On March 22, 2022, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc. to acquire the rights to Zosyn, a premixed frozen piperacillin-tazobactam product, in the U.S. and Canada. Zosyn is used for the treatment of intra-abdominal infections, nosocomial pneumonia, skin and skin structure infections, female pelvic infections and community-acquired pneumonia. Under the terms of the acquisition, we paid the acquisition price of $122 million and received specified intellectual property, including patent rights, in the first quarter of 2022 and will receive additional intellectual property, including the product rights to Zosyn, in the first quarter of 2023. Under the arrangement, we are entitled to receive profit sharing payments from sales of Zosyn until the product rights transfer to us in March 2023. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the agreement to acquire the rights to Zosyn. Hillrom On December 13, 2021, we completed our acquisition of all outstanding equity interests of Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc. (Hillrom) for a purchase price of $10.5 billion. Including the assumption of Hillrom's outstanding debt obligations, the enterprise value of the transaction was approximately $12.8 billion. Hillrom was a global medical technology leader whose products and services help enable earlier diagnosis and treatment, optimize surgical efficiency, and accelerate patient recovery while simplifying clinical communication and shifting care closer to home. Hillrom made those outcomes possible through digital and connected care solutions and collaboration tools, including smart bed systems, patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies, respiratory health devices, advanced equipment for the surgical space and more, delivering actionable, real-time insights at the point of care. 32 In 2022 the Patient Support Systems, Front Line Care and Global Surgical Solutions product categories of our Hillrom segment collectively generated net sales of $2.9 billion. During 2022, we also recognized $2.8 billion of goodwill impairments and $332 million of indefinite-lived intangible asset impairments related to goodwill and trade name intangible assets that arose from the Hillrom acquisition. See Notes 2, 4, 5 and 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about the Hillrom acquisition, goodwill and intangible asset impairments, Hillrom acquisition financing arrangements and Hillrom segment results, respectively. PerClot On July 29, 2021, we acquired certain assets related to PerClot Polysaccharide Hemostatic System (PerClot), including distribution rights for the U.S. and specified territories outside of the U.S., from CryoLife, Inc. for an upfront purchase price of $25 million and the potential for additional cash consideration of up to $36 million, which had an acquisition-date fair value of $28 million, based upon regulatory and commercial milestones. PerClot is an absorbable powder hemostat indicated for use in surgical procedures, including cardiac, vascular, orthopedic, spinal, neurological, gynecological, ENT and trauma surgery as an adjunct hemostat when control of bleeding from capillary, venous, or arteriolar vessels by pressure, ligature, and other conventional means is either ineffective or impractical. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of PerClot. Transderm Scop On March 31, 2021, we acquired the rights to Transderm Scop (TDS) for the U.S. and specified territories outside of the U.S. from subsidiaries of GlaxoSmithKline for an upfront purchase price of $60 million including the cost of acquired inventory and the potential for additional cash consideration of $30 million, which had an acquisition-date fair value of $24 million, based upon regulatory approval of a new contract manufacturer by a specified date. We previously sold this product under a distribution license to the U.S. institutional market. TDS is indicated for post-operative nausea and vomiting in the U.S. and motion sickness in European markets. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of TDS. Caelyx and Doxil On February 17, 2021, we acquired the rights to Caelyx and Doxil, the branded versions of liposomal doxorubicin, from a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson for specified territories outside of the U.S for approximately $325 million in cash. We previously acquired the U.S. rights to this product in 2019. Liposomal doxorubicin is a chemotherapy medicine used to treat various types of cancer. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of Caelyx and Doxil. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Items 33 The following table provides a summary of our special items and the related impact by line item on our results for 2022 and 2021. 34 Intangible asset amortization expense is identified as a special item to facilitate an evaluation of current and past operating performance and is consistent with how management and our Board of Directors internally assess performance. Additional special items are identified above because they are highly variable, difficult to predict and of a size that may substantially impact our results of operations for a period. Management believes that providing the separate impact of the above items on our results in accordance with U.S. GAAP may provide a more complete understanding of our operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of our results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. 1 Our results in 2022 included charges of $3.2 billion for goodwill and intangible asset impairments. Refer to Note 4 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the impairments. 2 Our results in 2022 and 2021 were impacted by costs associated with our execution of programs to optimize our organization and cost structure. These actions included streamlining our international operations, rationalizing our manufacturing and distribution facilities, reducing our general and administrative infrastructure, re-aligning certain R&D activities and canceling certain R&D programs. In 2022, restructuring charges include actions taken in connection with our integration of Hillrom, which we acquired in December 2021. Our results in 2022 and 2021 included business optimization charges of $225 million and $114 million, respectively.  Refer to Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these charges and related liabilities. 3 Our results in 2022 included charges of $44 million related to warranty and remediation activities arising from two field corrective actions on certain of our infusion pumps. 4 Our results in 2022 included $213 million of acquisition and integration-related costs. Those costs included $93 million of integration-related costs and $159 million of incremental cost of sales from the fair value step-ups on acquired Hillrom inventory that was sold in 2022. We do not expect to incur significant incremental costs of sales from those inventory fair value step-ups beyond what was recognized in 2022. Other integration expenses in the current period included third party consulting costs related to our integration and related cost savings activities. Those acquisition and integration-related expenses related to Hillrom were partially offset by a $39 million benefit from changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. Our results in 2021 included acquisition, integration and related financing expenses of $236 million. This included acquisition, integration and related financing expenses for our acquisition of Hillrom and the acquisition of the rights to Caelyx and Doxil for specified territories outside of the U.S. These expenses were partially offset by benefits from changes in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. In our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, we previously included $4 million of in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) charges within this acquisition and integration-related costs special item. We updated our policy in the current year to no longer reflect IPR&D charges as a special item, therefore, the $236 million prior year amount above has been updated from the $240 million amount previously reported for comparability purposes. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding business development activities. 5 Our results in 2022 and 2021 included $48 million and $42 million, respectively, of incremental costs to comply with the European Union’s medical device regulations for previously registered products, which primarily consist of contractor costs and other direct third-party costs. We consider the adoption of these regulations to be a significant one-time regulatory change and believe that the costs of initial compliance for previously registered products over the implementation period are not indicative of our core operating results. 6 Our results in 2022 included $12 million of divestiture-related costs of external advisors related to the proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories and our pursuit of strategic alternatives (including a potential sale) for our BPS product category. Refer to “Recently Announced Strategic Actions” above for further information. 7 Our results in 2021 included charges of $31 million for investigation and related costs for matters associated with our previously announced investigation of foreign exchange gains and losses. Refer to Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these charges. 35 8 Our results in 2021 included legal charges of approximately $13 million associated with claimants alleging injuries as a result of proximity to one of our plants. 9 Our results in 2022 included a loss of $54 million under an arrangement to divest certain product rights for an amount that is less than our cost of those product rights, which was triggered by U.S. and European Union regulatory approvals of the related products. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about the related transactions. 10 Our results in 2022 included a loss of $21 million related to our deconsolidation of a foreign subsidiary, including the derecognition of a related noncontrolling interest, upon its liquidation in December 2022 that was completed in connection with our legal entity rationalization activities. 11 Our results in 2022 included a curtailment gain of $11 million related to an announced change for active non-bargaining participants in our U.S. Hillrom pension plan. Refer to Note 12 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding this curtailment gain. 12 Our results in 2022 included a charge of $65 million for cumulative translation adjustments (CTA) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a result of the substantial liquidation of our operations in Argentina. 13 Our results in 2021 included a loss of $5 million on the early extinguishment of the $2.4 billion debt assumed as part of the Hillrom acquisition. Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 14 Our results in 2022 included a $25 million valuation allowance recorded to reduce the carrying amount of a deferred tax asset for a tax basis step-up related to Swiss tax reform legislation enacted during 2019, which will be amortizable as a tax deduction ratably over tax years 2025 through 2029, to reflect our current estimate of its recoverability. Our results in 2021 included a $58 million income tax benefit related to a tax-deductible foreign statutory loss on an investment in a foreign subsidiary and an $18 million income tax benefit related to a change in U.S. foreign tax credit regulations, partially offset by a $22 million income tax expense related to an unfavorable court ruling for an uncertain tax position. 15 Reflected in this item is the income tax impact of the special items identified in this table. The tax effect of each special item is based on the jurisdiction in which the item was incurred and the tax laws in effect for each such jurisdiction. Net Sales Our acquisition of Hillrom favorably impacted net sales by 21 percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the prior-year period.  Foreign currency unfavorably impacted net sales by 5 percentage points for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the prior-year period, principally due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro, British Pound, Turkish Lira, Australian Dollar, Japanese Yen and Chinese Renminbi. The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect current year local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates, except for current year Hillrom sales which have not been adjusted to prior year rates as they only had 18 days of sales in the prior year period. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current period. We believe that the non-GAAP measure of change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the U.S. GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete 36 understanding and facilitate a fuller analysis of our results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. Product Category Net Sales Reporting Upon our acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021, we have added three new product categories: Patient Support Systems, Front Line Care and Surgical Solutions. Our product categories include the following: • Renal Care includes sales of our peritoneal dialysis (PD), hemodialysis (HD) and additional dialysis therapies and services. • Medication Delivery includes sales of our intravenous (IV) therapies, infusion pumps, administration sets and drug reconstitution devices. • Pharmaceuticals includes sales of our premixed and oncology drug platforms, inhaled anesthesia and critical care products and pharmacy compounding services. • Clinical Nutrition includes sales of our parenteral nutrition (PN) therapies and related products. • Advanced Surgery includes sales of our biological products and medical devices used in surgical procedures for hemostasis, tissue sealing and adhesion prevention. • Acute Therapies includes sales of our continuous renal replacement therapies (CRRT) and other organ support therapies focused in the intensive care unit (ICU). • BioPharma Solutions includes sales of contracted services we provide to various pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical companies. • Patient Support Systems includes sales of our connected care solutions: devices, software, communications and integration technologies and smart beds. • Front Line Care includes sales of our integrated patient monitoring and diagnostic technologies to help diagnose, treat and manage a wide variety of illness and diseases, including respiratory therapy, cardiology, vision screening and physical assessment. • Surgical Solutions includes sales of our surgical video technologies, tables, lights, pendants, precision positioning devices and other accessories. • Other includes sales of other miscellaneous product and service offerings. The following is a summary of net sales by product category. Renal Care net sales decreased 4% in 2022, as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in 2022 was driven by a 6% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period, and lower in-center HD sales, partially offset by global patient growth in PD and $28 million of incremental revenue in the current year from a customer that did not meet its contractual minimum purchase requirements. Medication Delivery net sales remained flat in 2022, as compared to the prior-year period. In the current year increased demand for IV administration sets and solutions, reflecting a recovery in hospital admission rates and surgical procedures and lower U.S. customer rebates, were offset by lower sales of infusion pumps, a 3% negative 37 impact from foreign exchange rates as compared to the prior-year period and sales headwinds in China driven by COVID-related lockdowns. Supply chain constraints, including constraints related to the availability of semiconductor components and other components used in the production of our infusion pumps, and the fact that our new infusion pump platform for distribution in the U.S. continues to be subject to ongoing FDA review have adversely impacted sales of infusion pumps in the current year period. Pharmaceuticals net sales decreased 7% in 2022, as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in 2022 was driven by a 6% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Additionally, pharmaceuticals net sales were adversely impacted by increased competition from new market entrants and supply constraints impacting the production of certain molecules. Those items were partially offset by increased sales internationally for inhaled anesthesia products. Clinical Nutrition net sales decreased 3% in 2022, as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in 2022 was driven by a 7% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period, and lower sales of vitamins resulting from ongoing supply constraints.  Those decreases were partially offset by growth in the U.S. for our PN therapies and related products, including our PN multi-chamber bags. Advanced Surgery net sales increased 2% in 2022, as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in 2022 was driven by a continued recovery in surgical procedures, particularly in EMEA, and benefits from competitor supply constraints, partially offset by a 6% negative impact form foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Acute Therapies net sales decreased 10% in 2022, as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in 2022 was driven by lower COVID-related demand for our CRRT systems and a 4% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. BioPharma Solutions net sales decreased 4% in 2022, as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease includes a 6% negative impact from foreign exchange rates, as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease was also driven by lower sales from manufacturing services and supply packaging related to the production of COVID-19 vaccines on behalf of multiple pharmaceutical companies, reflecting a challenging comparison against a strong prior-year period. The Patient Support Systems, Front Line Care and Surgical Solutions product categories were added in connection with our acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021. Net sales for those product categories have been adversely impacted in the current year by ongoing supply chain constraints, particularly related to components used in our Front Line Care product offerings, hospital budget constraints and by delays in product installations for Patient Support Systems and Surgical Solutions resulting from limitations on hospital access due, in part, to staffing challenges being experienced by those customers. The prior year net sales amounts for those product categories reflect sales over the 18-day period from the acquisition date through year-end. Gross Margin and Expense Ratios Gross Margin The gross margin ratio was 35.7% and 39.9% in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 7.3 and 3.4 percentage points on the gross margin ratio in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Excluding the impact of the special items, the gross margin ratio decreased 0.3 percentage points in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to the adverse impacts of raw materials inflation and increased supply chain costs, partially offset by a favorable product mix that was primarily driven by our acquisition of Hillrom, lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans and lower U.S. customer rebates. 38 SG&A The SG&A expenses ratio was 25.7% and 22.4% in 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 3.8 and 2.0 percentage points on the SG&A expenses ratio in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Excluding the impact of the special items, the SG&A expenses ratio increased 1.5 percentage points in 2022 primarily due to the acquisition of Hillrom and increased outbound freight costs, partially offset by lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans. R&D The R&D expenses ratio was 4.0% and 4.2% in 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The special items identified above did not impact the R&D expenses ratio in 2022 or 2021.  Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Excluding the impact of the special items, the R&D expenses ratio remained relatively flat with the increase in total spend primarily driven by the Hillrom acquisition, partially offset by lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans. Business Optimization Items In recent years, we have undertaken actions to transform our cost structure and enhance our operational efficiency. These efforts have included restructuring the organization, optimizing our manufacturing footprint, R&D operations and supply chain network, employing disciplined cost management, and centralizing and streamlining certain support functions. From the commencement of our business optimization actions in the second half of 2015 through December 31, 2022, we have incurred cumulative pre-tax costs of $1.4 billion related to these actions. The costs consisted primarily of employee termination costs, implementation costs, contract termination costs, asset impairments and accelerated depreciation. We currently expect to incur additional pre-tax costs, primarily related to the implementation of business optimization programs, of approximately $46 million through the completion of the initiatives that are currently underway. We continue to pursue cost savings initiatives, including those related to our integration of Hillrom, and, to the extent further cost savings opportunities are identified, we may incur additional restructuring charges and costs to implement business optimization programs in future periods. For example, we expect to incur additional restructuring charges during 2023 related to our implementation of a new operating model intended to simply and streamline our operations (including our manufacturing footprint), as discussed above under "Recently Announced Strategic Actions." Refer to Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our business optimization programs. Goodwill Impairments We assess goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. We recognize a goodwill impairment charge for the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. As described above, we acquired Hillrom on December 13, 2021 and recognized $6.8 billion of goodwill and $6.0 billion of other intangible assets, including $1.9 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets, in connection with that acquisition. Our Hillrom segment includes the following three reporting units: Patient Support Systems, Front Line Care and Surgical Solutions. During the third quarter of 2022, we performed trigger-based impairment tests of the goodwill of each of those three reporting units, as well as the indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of trade names, that we acquired in connection with the Hillrom acquisition. We performed those tests as of September 30, 2022 due to (a) current macroeconomic conditions, including the rising interest rate environment and broad declines in equity valuations, and (b) reduced earnings forecasts for our three Hillrom reporting units, driven primarily by current shortages of certain component parts used in our products, raw materials inflation and increased supply chain costs. Those impairment tests resulted in total pre-tax goodwill impairment charges of $2.8 billion in the third quarter of 2022 relating to our Patient Support Systems, Front Line Care and Surgical Solutions reporting units. In connection with our annual goodwill impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of 2022, we performed quantitative impairment tests for all our reporting units and recorded an additional $27 million goodwill impairment related to our Surgical Solutions reporting unit. No goodwill impairments were recorded for our 39 remaining reporting units in connection with our annual goodwill impairment tests because the fair values of those reporting units exceeded their net book values. Further adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions or our earnings forecasts could lead to additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods, particularly for the reporting units and intangible assets acquired in the Hillrom acquisition, and such charges could be material to our results of operations. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net Other operating expense (income), net was an expense of $36 million and income of $6 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. In 2022 we recognized a loss of $54 million under an arrangement to divest certain product rights for an amount that is less than our cost of those product rights, which was triggered by U.S. and European Union regulatory approvals of the related products. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K for further information about the related transactions.  Additionally, we recognized a loss of $21 million related to the deconsolidation of a foreign subsidiary, including the derecognition of a related noncontrolling interest, upon its liquidation in December 2022 that was completed in connection with our legal entity rationalization activities.  Those losses were partially offset by gains of $39 million from net decreases in the estimated fair values of contingent consideration liabilities. In 2021 we recognized gains of $6 million related to net decreases in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net was $395 million and $192 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in 2022 was primarily driven by higher average debt outstanding in connection with the Hillrom acquisition, partially offset by acquisition bridge facility commitment fees recognized in 2021 and higher interest income in 2022. Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of the components of interest expense, net for 2022 and 2021. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net was an expense of $15 million and $41 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The net expense in 2022 was primarily due to the reclassification of a cumulative translation loss from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to earnings due to the substantial liquidation of our operations in Argentina, partially offset by foreign exchange gains, pension and other postretirement (OPEB) benefits, a pension curtailment gain and net increases in the fair value of marketable equity securities. The net expense in 2021 was primarily driven by foreign exchange net losses, pension and OPEB expenses and net decreases in the fair values of marketable equity securities. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was (2.9)% in 2022 and 12.3% in 2021. The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 22.8 percentage points and a favorable impact of 4.5 percentage points on the effective income tax rate in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Our effective income tax rate can differ from the 21% U.S. federal statutory rate due to a number of factors, including foreign rate differences, tax incentives, non-deductible expenses, non-taxable income, increases or decreases in valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain tax positions and excess tax benefits or shortfalls on stock compensation awards. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was primarily attributable to non-deductible impairments of goodwill acquired in the Hillrom acquisition and valuation allowance increases, including a $25 million increase related to deferred tax assets from a tax basis step-up that arose from Swiss tax reform legislation in 2019. Those items were partially offset by a $47 million net tax benefit, after related valuation allowances, from notional interest deductions received by certain wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries that have financed their operations with equity capital. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was primarily attributable to favorable geographic earnings mix, including a $50 million net tax benefit, after related valuation allowances, from notional interest deductions, a $58 million tax benefit related to a 40 tax-deductible foreign statutory loss on an investment in a foreign subsidiary, a tax benefit related to a change in U.S. foreign tax credit regulations and excess tax benefits on stock compensation awards, partially offset by an unfavorable court decision in a foreign jurisdiction related to an uncertain tax position. Our tax provisions for 2022 and 2021 do not include any significant tax charges related to either the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT) or Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) provisions, except for the inability to fully utilize foreign tax credits against such GILTI. Our accounting policy is to recognize any GILTI charge as a period cost. We anticipate that our effective income tax rate, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, will be approximately 21% in 2023.  This rate may be further impacted by a number of factors including discrete items, such as tax windfalls or deficiencies attributable to stock compensation awards, audit developments or legislative changes, as well as non-deductible or non-taxable items that may arise in the future and our geographic earnings mix. Net Income (Loss) and Earnings (Loss) per Diluted Share Net income (loss) was a loss of $2.4 billion in 2022 and income of $1.3 billion in 2021. Diluted earnings (loss) per share was $(4.83) in 2022 and $2.53 in 2021. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2021 to 2022, including the impairment of $2.8 billion of goodwill related to the Hillrom acquisition, are discussed above. Additionally, earnings (loss) per share was positively impacted by the repurchase of 0.5 million shares in 2022 and 7.3 million shares in 2021 through Rule 10b5-1 purchase plans. Refer to Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our stock repurchases. Segment results We manage our global operations based on four segments, consisting of the following geographic segments related to our legacy Baxter business: Americas, EMEA and APAC, and a global segment for our recently acquired Hillrom business. We use net sales and operating income on a segment basis to make resource allocation decisions and assess the ongoing performance of our segments. Refer to Note 17 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details regarding our segments. The following is a summary of financial information for our reportable segments. Americas Segment net sales and operating income in 2022 were $6.7 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively. Segment net sales and operating income in 2021 were $6.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. The decrease in operating income in 2022 was due to raw materials inflation, higher supply chain costs and lower sales in our Pharmaceuticals, Acute Therapies and BioPharma Solutions product categories, partially offset by higher sales in our Renal Care, Medication Delivery, Clinical Nutrition and Advanced Surgery product categories. EMEA Segment net sales and operating income in 2022 were $2.9 billion and $607 million, respectively. Segment net sales and operating income in 2021 were $3.1 billion and $632 million, respectively. The decrease in operating income in 2022 was primarily due to an unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates on results as compared to the prior-year period, lower sales in our Renal Care, Acute Therapies, Clinical Nutrition, Medication Delivery and Pharmaceuticals product categories and higher supply chain costs, partially offset by lower operating expenses and 41 an improved gross margin, driven by a favorable product mix and by having a full 12 months of sales from our February 2021 acquisition of the rights to Caelyx and Doxil for specified territories outside of the U.S. APAC Segment net sales and operating income in 2022 were $2.6 billion and $623 million, respectively. Segment net sales and operating income in 2021 were $2.8 billion and $623 million, respectively. Operating income in 2022 remained flat due to lower operating expenses and an improved gross margin, driven by a favorable product mix, offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates on results as compared to the prior-year period, higher supply chain costs and sales headwinds in China driven by COVID-related lockdowns. Hillrom Segment net sales and operating income for 2022 were $2.9 billion and $730 million, respectively. Segment net sales and operating loss for 2021 were $212 million and $80 million, respectively. The increase in net sales and operating income were due to our acquisition of Hillrom in December 2021. The prior year amounts reflect activity over the 18-day period from the acquisition date through year-end. Corporate and Other Certain items are maintained at Corporate and are not allocated to a segment. They primarily include corporate headquarter costs, certain R&D costs, manufacturing variances and centrally managed supply chain costs, product category support costs, stock compensation expense, certain employee benefit plan costs, certain gains, losses, and other charges (such as business optimization, acquisition and integration costs, intangible asset amortization and goodwill and intangible asset impairments). For the period from our acquisition of Hillrom on December 13, 2021 through December 31, 2021, we previously included all costs incurred by the Hillrom business within that segment, including $127 million related to the types of costs described in the preceding sentence that are maintained at Corporate for our legacy Baxter segments. In connection with our ongoing integration activities, beginning in the first quarter of 2022, we have updated the measure of profitability for our Hillrom segment by excluding such unallocated costs, consistent with our legacy Baxter segments. The Corporate operating loss in 2022 was higher than 2021 primarily due to goodwill and intangible asset impairments, higher intangible asset amortization expense, acquisition and integration-related costs, business optimization charges and increased manufacturing variances and centrally managed supply chain costs, partially offset by lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows from Operations — Continuing Operations In 2022 and 2021, cash provided by operating activities was $1.2 billion and $2.2 billion, respectively.  Operating cash flows decreased in 2022 primarily due to a decrease in our net income in 2022, increases in inventory levels and higher annual payouts under our employee incentive compensation plans in the current-year period, which were based on our 2021 results, compared to payouts made in the prior-year period, which were based on our 2020 results. Operating cash flows were also adversely impacted in the current year by the timing of accounts receivable collections and accounts payable payments in the fourth quarter of 2022. Cash Flows from Investing Activities In 2022, cash used for investing activities included payments for acquisitions and investments of $263 million, primarily related to our payment to acquire the rights to Zosyn, and capital expenditures of $679 million. In 2021, 42 cash used for investing activities included payments for acquisitions and investments of $10.5 billion, primarily related to Hillrom, Caleyx and Doxil, Transderm Scop and PerClot, and capital expenditures of $743 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In 2022, cash used in financing activities included debt repayments of $954 million and dividend payments of $573 million, partially offset by a net increase in commercial paper borrowings of $55 million and proceeds from stock issued under employee benefit plans of $127 million. In 2021, cash generated from financing activities included $11.8 billion to fund the consideration for the Hillrom acquisition, repay certain indebtedness of Hillrom, and to pay fees and expenses related to the foregoing.  In September 2021, we entered into a term loan credit agreement (the Term Loan Credit Agreement), pursuant to which a syndicate of financial institutions has committed to provide us with a senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $4.0 billion (the Term Loan Facility), consisting of a $2.0 billion three-year term loan and a $2.0 billion five-year term loan. In December 2021, we issued $800 million senior notes due in 2023, $1.4 billion senior notes due in 2024, $1.45 billion senior notes due in 2027, $1.25 billion senior notes due in 2028, $1.55 billion senior notes due in 2032, $750 million senior notes due in 2051, $300 million floating rate senior notes due in 2023 and $300 million floating rate senior notes due in 2024. We also had net proceeds from commercial paper borrowings of $299 million and repaid debt obligations of $2.8 billion, including $2.4 billion of debt that was assumed in the Hillrom acquisition. Financing activities in 2021 also included payments for treasury stock repurchases of $600 million, dividend payments of $530 million and receipts from stock issued under employee benefit plans of $187 million. As authorized by the Board of Directors, we repurchase our stock depending upon our cash flows, net debt levels and market conditions. In July 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock. The Board of Directors increased this authority by an additional $1.5 billion in each of November 2016 and February 2018, by an additional $2.0 billion in November 2018 and by an additional $1.5 billion in October 2020. We paid $32 million in cash to repurchase approximately 0.5 million shares under this authority pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan in 2022 and had $1.3 billion remaining available under this authorization as of December 31, 2022. We do not intend to make any share repurchases in the near term as we focus on achieving our 2.75x net leverage commitment. Credit Facilities and Access to Capital and Credit Ratings Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2022, our U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility and Euro-denominated revolving credit facility had a maximum capacity of $2.5 billion and €200 million, respectively. Each of the facilities matures in 2026. The facilities enable us to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates, and contain various covenants, including a maximum net leverage ratio.  Fees under the credit facilities are 0.125% annually as of December 31, 2022 and are based on our credit ratings and the total capacity of the facility. Fees under these credit facilities were 0.09% annually as of December 31, 2021 and were based on our credit ratings and the total capacity of the facility. There were no borrowings under these credit facilities as of December 31, 2022 or December 31, 2021. Our commercial paper borrowing arrangements require us to maintain undrawn borrowing capacity under our credit facilities for an amount at least equal to our outstanding commercial paper borrowings. In the third quarter of 2022, we amended the credit agreement governing our U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility and the guaranty agreement with respect to our Euro-denominated revolving credit facility, in each case to delay the commencement of our net leverage ratio covenant step-down schedule until June 30, 2024. As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. Based on our covenant calculations as of December 31, 2022, we have capacity to draw approximately $2.1 billion under our credit facilities, less outstanding commercial paper borrowings, which were $299 million at year-end. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting either of the credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity of these facilities by the institution’s respective commitment. Additionally, a deterioration in our financial performance may further reduce our ability to draw on our credit facilities. We also maintain other credit arrangements, as described in Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 43 Access to Capital and Credit Ratings We intend to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand and future cash flows from operations or by issuing additional debt. We had $1.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2022, with adequate cash available to meet operating requirements in each jurisdiction in which we operate. We invest our excess cash in money market and other funds and diversify the concentration of cash among different financial institutions. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $16.6 billion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including current maturities, and short-term debt. Subject to market conditions and our investment grade targets, we regularly evaluate opportunities with respect to our capital structure. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt, including commercial paper, or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or in the solvency of our customers or suppliers, deterioration in our key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, we believe we have sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support our growth objectives and reduce our post-acquisition debt levels as we take actions consistent with our capital allocation priorities. Our credit ratings at December 31, 2022 were as follows: Our senior debt credit ratings outlook was changed from stable to negative by two of the rating agencies during the third quarter of 2022. In January 2023, Fitch further revised our senior debt credit rating outlook from negative to rating watch negative. LIBOR Reform In 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and other interbank offered rates, which have been widely used as reference rates for various securities and financial contracts, including loans, debt and derivatives. This announcement indicated that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis was not guaranteed after 2021. Regulators in the U.S. and other jurisdictions have been working to replace these rates with alternative reference interest rates that are supported by transactions in liquid and observable markets, such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). In 2020, it was announced that certain U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors would not cease until 2023. In September 2022, our $2.5 billion U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility and our $4.0 billion Term Loan Credit Agreement were amended to reference SOFR-based rates. Currently, our €200 million Euro-denominated revolving credit facility references EURIBOR-based rates. A discontinuation would require this arrangement to be modified in order to replace EURIBOR with an alternative reference interest rate, which could impact our cost of funds. That credit facility agreement includes provisions related to the determination of a successor rate. 44 Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2022, we had contractual obligations, excluding accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities, payable or maturing in the following periods. 1. Interest payments on debt and finance lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2022. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 5 and Note 6, respectively, in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion regarding our debt instruments outstanding and finance lease obligations at December 31, 2022. 2. The primary components of other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2022 are pension and other postretirement benefits, deferred tax liabilities, long-term tax liabilities, and litigation and environmental reserves. We projected the timing of the related future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from our estimates. We contributed $48 million and $73 million to our defined benefit pension plans in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The timing of funding in future periods is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates, investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes cash outflows related to our pension plans. The amount included within other non-current liabilities (and excluded from the table above) related to our pension plan liabilities was $737 million as of December 31, 2022. In 2023, we have no obligation to fund our principal plans in the United States and we expect to make contributions of at least $43 million to our foreign pension plans. Additionally, we have excluded long-term tax liabilities, which include liabilities for unrecognized tax positions, and deferred tax liabilities from the table above because we are unable to estimate the timing of the related cash outflows. The amounts of long-term tax liabilities and deferred tax liabilities included within other non-current liabilities (and excluded from the table above) were $64 million and $698 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2022. 3. Includes our significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancellable agreements, any penalty due upon cancellation is included. These commitments do not exceed our projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material and component part purchases, utility agreements and service contracts. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We periodically enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheets in accordance with U.S. GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, we may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). For a discussion of our significant off-balance sheet arrangements, refer to Note 15 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding receivable transactions, and Note 2 and Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding joint development and commercialization arrangements, indemnifications and legal contingencies. 45 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK We operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. Our hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 15 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our financial instruments and hedging strategies. Currency Risk We are primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to revenues generated outside of the United States denominated in the Euro, British Pound, Chinese Renminbi, Korean Won, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Colombian Peso, Brazilian Real, Mexican Peso, Turkish Lira, Indian Rupee and Swedish Krona. We manage our foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows us to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, we use derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange, however these instruments may be unavailable or inefficient in emerging or volatile markets. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. However, we don't hedge our entire foreign exchange exposure and are still subject to earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange risk.  Financial market and currency volatility may limit our ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures. We use forwards to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions and recognized assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The maximum term over which we have cash flow hedge contracts in place related to foreign exchange risk on forecasted transactions as of December 31, 2022 is 12 months. We also enter into derivative instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk on certain intra-company and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies. As part of our risk-management program, we perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of our foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2022, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, the net pre-tax asset balance of $2 million with respect to those contracts would change by $68 million. A similar analysis performed with respect to contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2021 indicated that, on a pre-tax basis, the net asset balance of $3 million would change by $34 million. The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2022 by replacing the actual exchange rates as of December 31, 2022 with exchange rates that are 10% weaker compared to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances. In February 2022, the three-year cumulative inflation rate in Turkey exceeded 100 percent.  As a result, on April 1, 2022, we began reporting the results of our subsidiary in that jurisdiction using highly inflationary accounting, which requires that the functional currency of the entity be changed to the reporting currency of its parent.  As of December 31, 2022, our subsidiary in Turkey had net monetary assets of $33 million. Interest Rate Risk We are also exposed to the risk that our earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. Our policy is to manage interest costs using the mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that we believe is appropriate at that time. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps in which we agree to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. We also periodically use forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt. As of December 31, 2022, there were no interest rate derivative contracts outstanding and we had approximately $3.9 billion of outstanding floating rate debt and $299 million of commercial 46 paper. A 100 basis point change in interest rates would impact out pre-tax earnings and cash flows by approximately $42 million over a one-year period. CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on changes in accounting standards. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2022, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2022-03, Fair Value Measurement of Equity Securities Subject to Contractual Sales Restrictions, which (1) clarifies the guidance in Topic 820 on the fair value measurement of an equity security that is subject to contractual restrictions that prohibit the sale of an equity security and (2) requires specific disclosures related to such an equity security. The standard is effective for our financial statements beginning in 2024. The impact of the adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of our accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are the most important to the depiction of our financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by us, often employing the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have an unfavorable effect on our results of operations and financial position. The following is a summary of accounting policies that we consider critical to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances Revenues from product sales are recorded at the net sales price (transaction price), which includes estimates of variable consideration primarily related to rebates and wholesaler chargebacks. These reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. Our estimates take into consideration historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data, and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. The amount of variable consideration included in the net sales price is limited to the amount that is probable not to result in a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized in a future period.  Additionally, our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately and determining the allocation of the transaction price may require significant judgment. Pension and OPEB Plans We provide pension and other postretirement benefits to certain of our employees. The service component of employee benefit expenses is reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statements as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. All other components of these employee benefit expenses are reported in other (income) expense, net in our consolidated statements of income (loss). The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost for the plans is calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually and revised if appropriate. The significant assumptions include the following: • interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities; • the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets; • rates of increases in employee compensation (used in estimating liabilities); • anticipated future healthcare trend rates (used in estimating the OPEB plan liability); and • other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover (used in estimating liabilities). 47 Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. Our key assumptions are listed in Note 12 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to our consolidated financial statements. Discount Rate Assumption Effective for the December 31, 2022 measurement date, we utilized discount rates of 5.55% and 5.46% to measure our benefit obligations for our most significant U.S. and Puerto Rico pension plans and OPEB plan, respectively. We used a broad population of approximately 200 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2022 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of approximately 700 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds we would most likely select if we were to actually annuitize our pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and other European countries, we use a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For our other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates. To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, we perform a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point (i.e., one-half of one percent) increase in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease by approximately $25 million, and for each 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would increase by approximately $35 million. Return on Plan Assets Assumption In measuring the net periodic cost for 2022, we used a long-term expected rate of return of 5.00% for our most significant pension plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. This assumption will increase to 6.43% in 2023. This assumption is not applicable to our OPEB plan because it is not funded. We establish the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on our asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both our actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future. To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, we perform a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $17 million. Other Assumptions For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, we used the Pri-2012 combined mortality table with improvements projected using the MP-2021 projection scale adjusted to a long-term improvement of 0.8% as of December 31, 2022. For all other pension plans, we utilized country- and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. We periodically analyze and update our assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends. 48 The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions We maintain valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, we evaluate factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if we take operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary. In the normal course of business, we are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and are periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and we intend to defend our positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, we record reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with U.S. GAAP based on the technical support for the positions, our past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. Our results of operations and effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, we prevail in positions for which reserves have been established, or we are required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves. Realization of the U.S. and foreign operating loss and tax credit carryforwards depends on generating sufficient future earnings. A valuation allowance of $704 million and $401 million was recognized as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, to reduce the deferred tax assets associated with net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards because we do not believe it is more likely than not that these assets will be fully realized prior to expiration. After evaluating relevant U.S. tax laws, any elections or other opportunities that may be available, and the future expiration of certain U.S. tax provisions that will impact the utilization of our U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards, management expects to be able to realize some, but not all, of the U.S. foreign tax credit deferred tax assets up to its overall domestic loss (ODL) balance plus other recurring and non-recurring foreign inclusions. Therefore, a valuation allowance of $119 million and $98 million was recognized with respect to the foreign tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We will continue to evaluate the need for additional valuation allowances and, as circumstances change, the valuation allowance may change. Valuation of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the purchase price over the fair value (or other measurement attribute required by U.S. GAAP) of acquired assets and liabilities in a business combination. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment review annually and whenever indicators of impairment exist. We have the option to assess goodwill for impairment by initially performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the quantitative goodwill impairment test is not required to be performed. If we determine that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, or if we do not elect the option to perform an initial qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. In the quantitative impairment test, we calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount that the reporting unit’s carrying amount, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. In a quantitative goodwill impairment test, the fair values of our reporting units are generally determined based on a discounted cash flow model (an income approach) and earnings multiples (a market approach) based on the guideline public company method. Significant assumptions used in the determination reporting unit fair value measurements generally include forecasted cash flows, discount rates, terminal growth rates and earnings multiples. The discounted cash flow models used to determine the fair values of our reporting units during 2022 reflected our most recent cash flow projections, discount rates ranging from 9% to 10% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2% to 3%. Each of these inputs can significantly affect the fair values of our reporting units. During 2022, we recognized $2.8 billion of goodwill impairment charges related to the three reporting units within our 49 Hillrom segment. See Note 4, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about those impairments. We record acquired intangible assets at fair value in business combinations and at cost in asset acquisitions. Valuations are generally completed for intangible assets acquired in business acquisitions using a discounted cash flow analysis (an income approach) and reflect our judgements about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the assets. The most significant estimates and assumptions inherent in a discounted cash flow analysis include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, the stage in completion (for acquired in-process R&D), royalty rates, terminal growth rates, contributory asset charges and customer attrition rates (for customer-related intangibles). The relief from royalty models used in the determination of the fair values of our trade name intangible assets during 2022 reflected our most recent revenue projections, a discount rate of 9.5%, royalty rates ranging from 3% to 5% and terminal growth rates ranging from 2% to 3%. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. During the third quarter of 2022, we recognized pre-tax impairment charges of $332 million to reduce the carrying amounts of certain indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily related to the Hillrom and Welch Allyn trade names acquired in the Hillrom acquisition, to their estimated fair values. Additionally, during 2022 and 2020 we recognized pre-tax impairment charges of $12 million and $17 million, respectively, related to developed technology intangible assets due to declines in market expectations for the related products. See Note 4, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about those impairments. Acquired in-process R&D (IPR&D) is the value assigned to acquired technology or products under development which have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use. IPR&D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Upon receipt of regulatory approval of the related technology or product, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. If the R&D project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is charged to expense. IPR&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately. For such transactions, payments made to third parties on or after regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset. Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with R&D projects, there is no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from the underlying assumptions used to prepare discounted cash flow analyses, nor that the R&D project will result in a successful commercial product. Further adverse changes to macroeconomic conditions or our earnings forecasts could lead to additional goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods, particularly for the reporting units and intangible assets acquired in the Hillrom acquisition, and such charges could be material to our results of operations. CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) commenced an inspection of Claris’ facilities in Ahmedabad, India in July 2017, immediately prior to the closing of our acquisition of Claris Injectables Limited (Claris). FDA completed the inspection and subsequently issued a Warning Letter based on observations identified in the 2017 inspection (Claris Warning Letter).¹  FDA re-inspected the facilities and issued a Form 483 on May 17, 2022.  On September 1, 2022, FDA notified the company that the inspection had been classified as voluntary action indicated (VAI). On January 19, 2023, FDA arrived to re-inspect the facilities and issued a Form 483 on January 27, 2023. Since the issuance of the Claris Warning Letter, we have implemented corrective and preventive actions to address FDA's prior observations and other items we identified and management has begun working with other manufacturing locations, including contract manufacturing organizations, to support the production of new products for distribution in the U.S. Refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters and how they may impact us. 1 Available online at https://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/ucm613538.htm 50 FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This annual report includes forward-looking statements. Use of the words “may,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “potential,” “expects,” “plans,” “seeks,” “intends,” “evaluates,” “pursues,” “anticipates,” “continues,” “designs,” “impacts,” “affects,” “forecasts,” “target,” “outlook,” “initiative,” “objective,” “designed,” “priorities,” “goal,” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions is intended to identify forward-looking statements that represent our current judgment about possible future events. These forward-looking statements may include statements with respect to plans to implement a simplified commercial and manufacturing footprint, the proposed spinoff of our Renal Care and Acute Therapies product categories, review of strategic alternatives for our BPS product category and other potential portfolio management activities we may undertake in the future, accounting estimates and assumptions, global economic conditions and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, litigation-related matters including outcomes, impacts of the internal investigation related to foreign exchange gains and losses, future regulatory filings and our R&D pipeline, sales from new product offerings, credit exposure to foreign governments, the adequacy of cash flows and credit facilities, potential developments with respect to credit ratings, investment of foreign earnings, estimates of liabilities including those related to uncertain tax positions, contingent payments, future pension plan contributions, costs, discount rates and rates of return, our exposure to financial market volatility and foreign currency and interest rate risks, the impact of inflation on our business, the impact of competition, future sales growth, business development activities, cost saving initiatives, future capital and R&D expenditures, future debt issuances, manufacturing expansion, the adequacy of tax provisions and reserves, the effective tax rate and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts. These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. While these statements represent our judgment on what the future may hold, and we believe these judgments are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of any events or financial results. Whether actual future results and developments will conform to expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: 51 Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements. 52