********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, stockholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, future growth prospects and stock price could suffer. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have had, and we expect will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business. The nature and extent of future impacts are uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 has had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations, supply chains and distribution systems and has increased and will continue to increase our expenses, including the impact associated with preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments are taking. These measures have led to unprecedented restrictions on, disruptions in, and other related impacts on businesses and personal activities. In addition to travel restrictions put in place in early 2020, governments have closed borders, imposed prolonged quarantines and may continue those measures or implement other restrictions and requirements in light of the continuing spread of the pandemic. We expect that these evolving restrictions and requirements, as well as the corresponding need to adapt to new methods of conducting business remotely, will continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Risks associated with COVID-19 include, but are not limited to, the following: • We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant and unpredictable reductions or increases in demand for certain of our products as healthcare customers re-prioritize the treatment of 6 patients. Some of our products are particularly sensitive to reductions in elective medical procedures, and, as hospital systems prioritize treatment of COVID-19 patients and otherwise comply with government guidelines, many of those procedures have been suspended or postponed in our principal markets. In the second, third and fourth quarters of 2020, this resulted in lower levels of general hospital admissions and elective surgery volumes in those markets, which negatively impacted the demand for certain of our products. It is not possible to predict the timing of a broad resumption of elective medical procedures. If patients and hospital systems continue to de-prioritize, delay or cancel these procedures, our business, financial condition and results of operations would continue to be negatively affected. • A significant number of our suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and vendors have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including with respect to the ability of their employees to get to their places of work and maintain the continuity of their on-site operations. These impacts could impair our ability to move our products through distribution channels to end customers. Any delay or shortage in the supply of components or materials or other operational or logistical challenges may result in our inability to satisfy consumer demand for our products in a timely manner or at all, which could harm our reputation, future sales and profitability. For example, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience supply constraints for amino acid raw materials used in our parenteral nutrition products, as such materials are also being used to produce COVID-19 vaccines. • We could experience a loss of sales and profitability due to delayed payments, reduced demand or insolvency of healthcare professionals, hospitals and other customers, and suppliers and vendors facing liquidity or other financial issues. These liquidity or other financial issues could be exacerbated if prolonged high levels of unemployment or loss of insurance coverage impact patients’ ability to access treatments that use our products and services. • COVID-19 could adversely impact our ability to retain key employees and the continued service and availability of skilled personnel necessary to run our operations, including members of our management, as well as the ability of our suppliers, manufacturers, distributors and vendors to retain their key employees. To the extent our management or other personnel are impacted in significant numbers by COVID-19 and are not available to perform their professional duties, we could experience delays in, or the suspension of, our manufacturing operations, research and development activities and other functions. • We face increased operational challenges as we continue to take measures to support and protect employee health and safety, including through office closures and work from home policies. For example, remote working arrangements heighten our risks associated with information technology systems and networks, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious software, security breaches, and telecommunication failures, both for systems and networks we control directly and for those that employees and third-party developers rely on to work remotely. Any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches or cyber risks or detect, or respond adequately to, a security breach or cyber risk, or any other disruptions to our information technology systems and networks (as a result of remote working arrangements or otherwise), can have adverse effects on our business and cause reputational and financial harm. These risks are particularly heightened due to COVID‑19 as cybercriminals attempt to profit from the disruptions caused by the uncertain environment. • COVID-19 and related impacts have affected and may further affect the global economy and capital markets worldwide, which, among other consequences, may restrict our access to capital, increase financing costs, adversely affect our liquidity, the perceptions of our creditworthiness, and our ability to complete acquisitions, and increase volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. 7 The extent of the impact from the pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be predicted at this time, such as the severity and duration of the pandemic (including of related resurgences and future mutations or outbreaks of related strains of the virus); the extent and effectiveness of containment efforts, including the effectiveness and acceptance of any vaccines for COVID-19; and the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our employees, customers, counterparties, service providers and regulators, as well as other market participants. Any of these and other impacts of the pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, to the extent COVID-19 adversely affects our operations and global economic conditions more generally, many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section may be heightened. Risks Related to Our Ability to Grow Our Business If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We need to successfully introduce new products to achieve our strategic business objectives. Product development requires substantial investment and there is inherent risk in the R&D process. A successful product development process depends on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, adapt to new technologies, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, demonstrate satisfactory clinical results, manufacture products in an economical and timely manner and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. If we cannot successfully introduce new products or adapt to changing technologies, our products may become obsolete and our revenue and profitability could suffer. Issues with product supply or quality could have an adverse effect on our business or cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products, among other negative consequences. Our success depends upon the availability and quality of our products. The pharmaceutical and medical products industries are competitive and subject to complex market dynamics and varying demand levels. These levels vary in response to macro-economic conditions, regulatory requirements (including the availability of private or public reimbursement), seasonality, natural disasters, pandemics, epidemics and other matters. For example, as hospital systems prioritized treatment of COVID-19 patients, elective medical procedures were suspended or postponed in our principal markets, which negatively impacted demand for certain products. Additionally, the development of new or enhanced products involves a lengthy regulatory process and is capital intensive. As a result, our ability to match our production levels and capacity to market demand is imprecise and may result in a failure to meet market demand or satisfy customer requirements for our products or, alternatively, an oversupply of inventory. Failure to meet market demand may result in customers transitioning to available competitive products, loss of market share, negative publicity, reputational damage, loss of customer confidence or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price). In the event of an oversupply, we may be forced to lower our prices, record asset impairment charges or take other actions, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends on our ability to maintain and routinely improve product quality and our quality management program. Quality management plays an essential role in meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, improving our products and services and assuring the safety and efficacy of our products. While we have a quality system that covers the lifecycle of our products, quality and safety issues have and may in the future occur with respect to our products. New or unintended uses of our product (for example, in response to COVID-19 or changing clinical practice) may also raise quality or safety issues. A quality or safety issue may result in adverse inspection reports, voluntary or official action indicated, warning letters, import bans, product recalls (either voluntary or required by FDA or similar governmental authorities in other countries) or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, costly litigation, refusal of a government to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. See “—Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” An inability to address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence in us or our current or future products, which may result in the loss of sales and difficulty in successfully launching new products. Additionally, we have made and continue to make significant investments in assets, including inventory and property, plant and equipment, which relate to potential new products or modifications to existing products. Product quality or safety issues may restrict us from being able to realize the expected returns from these investments, potentially resulting in asset impairments in the future. 8 Unaffiliated third-party suppliers provide a number of goods and services to our R&D, clinical and manufacturing organizations. Third party suppliers are required to comply with our quality standards. Failure of a third-party supplier to provide compliant raw materials or supplies could result in delays, service interruptions or other quality related issues that may negatively impact our business results. There is substantial competition in the product markets in which we operate. Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in all of our markets from international and domestic healthcare and pharmaceutical companies and providers of all sizes, and these competitors often differ across our businesses. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. Competition may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. If our competitors respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements or we do not introduce new versions or upgrades to our product portfolio in response to those requirements, our products may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive. If our competitors develop more effective or affordable products or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our business, financial condition and operations will likely be negatively affected. If we are forced to reduce our prices due to increased competition, our business could become less profitable. Our sales could be adversely affected if any of our contracts with GPOs, IDNs or other customers are terminated due to increased competition or otherwise. In addition, many health care industry companies, including health care systems, distributors, manufacturers, providers, and insurers, are consolidating or have formed strategic alliances. As the health care industry consolidates, competition to provide goods and services to industry participants will become more intense. Further, this consolidation creates larger enterprises with greater negotiating power, which they can use to negotiate price concessions. If we face an increase in costs or must reduce our prices because of industry consolidation, or if we lose customers as a result of consolidation, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our business development activities are unsuccessful, we may not realize the intended benefits. We expect to continue to engage in business development activities, including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities. These activities may result in substantial investment of our resources. Our success developing products or expanding into new markets from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance; competition from other companies in the industries in which we operate that are seeking similar opportunities; whether we are able to complete an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us; the strength of the other company’s underlying technology, products and ability to execute its business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation related to the other company’s products or technology; and our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product, technology or research into our existing operations, including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process R&D projects and to maintain adequate controls over the combined operations. Certain of these activities are subject to antitrust and competition laws, which laws could impact our ability to pursue strategic transactions and could result in mandated divestitures in the context of proposed acquisitions. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may not realize the intended benefits of such activities, including that acquisition and integration costs may be greater than expected or the possibility that expected return on investment, synergies and accretion will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected timeframes. For more information on recent business development activities, see Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to attract and retain key employees our business may suffer. Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, including people in senior management, sales, marketing, information technology and R&D positions. Competition for top talent in the 9 healthcare industry can be intense. Our ability to recruit and retain such talent will depend on a number of factors, including hiring practices of our competitors, compensation and benefits, work location, work environment and industry economic conditions. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified employees, our business could suffer. Risks Related to Our Business Operations If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or for a cost-effective price or if we experience other manufacturing, sterilization, supply or distribution difficulties, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The manufacture of our products requires, among other things, the timely supply or delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We manufacture our products in approximately 50 manufacturing facilities around the world. We acquire our components, materials and other requirements for manufacturing from many suppliers and vendors in various countries, including sometimes from ourselves for self-supplied requirements. We endeavor, either alone or working closely with our suppliers, to ensure the continuity of our inputs and supplies but we cannot guarantee these efforts will always be successful. Further, while efforts are made to diversify certain of our sources of components and materials, in certain instances there is only a sole source or supplier with no alternatives yet identified. For most of our components and materials for which a single source or supplier is used, alternative sources or suppliers may exist, but we have made a strategic determination to use the single source or supplier. Although we do carry strategic inventory and maintain insurance to help mitigate the potential risk related to any supply disruption, there can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient or effective. A reduction or interruption in supply, an issue in the supply chain, including issues due to the revocation of distribution facilities’ licenses, and our inability to quickly develop acceptable alternative sources for such supply could adversely affect our ability to manufacture, distribute and sell our products in a timely or cost-effective manner. Moreover, changes in regulation, world trade policies, international taxes and government-to-government relations and issues with export and import activities could negatively impact our ability to distribute products within a country and across countries. See “—Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” Additionally, volatility in our costs of energy, transportation/freight, components, raw materials and other supply, manufacturing and distribution costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Climate change (including laws or regulations passed in response thereto) could increase our costs, in particular our costs of supply, energy and transportation/freight. Material or sustained increases in the price of oil could have an adverse impact on the cost of many of the plastic materials we use to make and package our products, as well as our transportation/freight costs. These outcomes may in turn result in customers transitioning to available competitive products, loss of market share, negative publicity, reputational damage, loss of customer confidence or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price). Many of our products are difficult to manufacture. This is due to the complex nature of manufacturing pharmaceuticals, including biologics, and devices, as well as the strict regulatory regime governing our manufacturing operations. Variations in the manufacturing process may result in production failures which could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation. A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in a quality or safety issue of the type discussed above. Some of our products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility or stored at a single storage site. Loss or damage to, or closure of, a manufacturing facility or storage site due to a natural disaster, such as we experienced as a result of Hurricane Maria, a pandemic, such as COVID-19, or otherwise could adversely affect our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of key products or deliver products to meet customer demand or contractual requirements, which may result in a loss of revenue and other adverse business consequences (including those identified in the paragraphs above). In addition, several of our manufacturing facilities are leased and we may not be able to renew leases on favorable terms or at all. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility, a third-party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis (if at all) to replace production capacity in the event we lose manufacturing capacity or products are otherwise unavailable. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our products require sterilization prior to sale or distribution, and we utilize both Baxter-owned and third-party facilities for this process. If an event occurs that results in damage to or closure, whether temporarily or permanent, of one or more of these facilities, we may be unable to manufacture or sterilize the relevant products at prior levels or at all, and a third party may not be available on a timely basis (if at all) to replace sterilization capacity. 10 For example, in February 2020, certain air emission control technology used to reduce ethylene oxide emissions from sterilization equipment at our facility in Mountain Home, Arkansas, was tested and determined not to operate in accordance with applicable emission limitations in our state-issued air permit. Although we received a temporary variance and have recommenced operations, these events or other disruptions of manufacturing or sterilization processes that we or third parties may experience, whether due to lack of capacity, environmental, regulatory or compliance issues or otherwise, could result in product shortage, unanticipated costs, loss of revenues, litigation and damage to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Breaches and breakdowns affecting our information technology systems or protected data, including from cyber security breaches and data leakage, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and competitive position. We rely upon information technology systems and infrastructure, including support provided by our partners and third parties, to support our business, our products and our customers. For example, we routinely rely on our technology systems and infrastructure to aid us in the collection, use, storage and transfer, disclosure and other processing of voluminous amounts of data including confidential, business, financial, personal, patient and other sensitive information (collectively, Confidential Information). We also rely on systems for manufacturing, customer orders, shipping, regulatory compliance and various other matters. Certain of our products and systems collect data regarding patients and their therapy and some are internet enabled or connect to our systems for maintenance and other purposes. Some of our products, even though not internet enabled nor connected to our systems, connect to hospital networks, electronic medical records or electronic health records. The continuing evolution of technology we use, including cloud-based computing, and reliance on third parties creates additional opportunities for the unintentional, intentional and/or unauthorized exposure, dissemination and/or destruction of Confidential Information stored in our devices, systems, servers, infrastructure and products (collectively, Technology). Security threats, including cyber and other attacks, are becoming increasingly sophisticated, frequent, and adaptive. Our Technology is vulnerable to breakdown, interruption, cyber and other security attacks, system malfunction, unauthorized access, inadvertent exposure or disclosure of information, theft and other events. Third-party systems that we rely upon could also become vulnerable to the same risks and may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could result in system disruption or compromise the information security of our own systems. Any such vulnerability could compromise our Technology and could expose Confidential Information to unauthorized third parties and/or cause permanent loss of such data. In addition to loss of Confidential Information, unauthorized access to or interference with our Technology may cause product functionality issues that may result in risk to patient safety, field actions and/or product recalls. We have, like other large multi-national companies, experienced cyber incidents in the past and may experience them in the future, which have exposed and may continue to expose vulnerabilities in our information technology systems. Although the prior incidents have not had a material effect on our business and we have invested and continue to invest in the protection of data and Technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns, attacks, breaches in our Technology, cyber incidents or other incidents or ensure compliance with all applicable security and privacy laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that host or process Confidential Information on our behalf. Such incidents could result in unauthorized access to patient data and other Confidential Information and could pose a risk to patient safety. Any failure to protect against such incidents can lead to substantial and material regulatory fines and penalties, business disruption, reputational harm, financial loss, litigation as well as other damages. Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property from any of the foregoing may have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. See “—Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters.” As the FDA, other regulators and our customers become more sensitive to risks related to cybersecurity, our ability to meet certain information technology safety standards could affect our products’ marketability and competitiveness. We could also suffer strained relationships with customers, business partners, physicians and other healthcare professionals, increased costs (for security measures, remediation or otherwise), litigation (including class actions and stockholder derivative actions) or other negative consequences (including a decline in stock price) from breaches, cyber and other security attacks, industrial espionage, ransomware, email or phishing scams, malware or other cyber incidents, which may compromise our system infrastructure or lead to data leakage, either internally or at our third-party providers or other business partners. In addition, significant implementation issues may arise as we continue to consolidate and outsource certain computer operations and application support activities. Further, a greater number of our employees are working remotely in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government actions, which (among other things) could 11 expose us to greater risks related to cybersecurity and our information technology systems. We also face all of the same risks listed above and other heightened risks when acquiring a company, in particular if we need to transition or implement certain processes or controls with the acquired company. We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include changes in exchange controls and other governmental actions, loss of business in government and public tenders that are held annually in many cases, increasingly complex labor environments, availability of raw materials, changes in taxation, tariffs, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of U.S. or local laws, dependence on a few government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic and political instability, monetary or currency volatility or instability (including as it relates to the U.S. dollar, the Euro, the Yuan and currencies in emerging market countries), disputes between countries, trade relationships and conflicts, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, and disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic region regardless of cause, including natural disaster, pandemic, power loss, cyber-attack, data breach, war, terrorism, riot, labor disruption, civil insurrection or social unrest. Failure to comply with, or material changes to, the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. On January 31, 2020, the United Kingdom (UK) formally left the European Union (EU) (commonly known as Brexit) when the UK-EU Withdrawal Agreement became effective. Under the Withdrawal Agreement, a transition period began that ran until December 31, 2020. On January 1, 2021, the UK left the EU Single Market and Customs Union, as well as all EU policies and international agreements. As a result, the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital between the UK and the EU ended, and the EU and the UK formed two separate markets and two distinct regulatory and legal spaces. On December 24, 2020, the European Commission reached a trade agreement with the UK on the terms of its future cooperation with the EU (Trade Agreement). The Trade Agreement offers UK and EU companies preferential access to each other’s markets, ensuring imported goods will be free of tariffs and quotas; however, economic relations between the UK and the EU will now be on more restricted terms than existed previously. The withdrawal by the UK from the EU could result in the deterioration of economic conditions, volatility in currency exchange rates, and increased regulatory complexities, as well as the potential for product shortages, increased costs or other similar effects. These outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The escalating global economic competition and trade tensions between the U.S. and China could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we have been able to mitigate some of the impact from increased duties imposed by both countries (through petitioning both governments for tariff exclusions and other mitigations), the risk remains of additional tariffs and other kinds of restrictions. Tariff exclusions awarded to us by the U.S. Government require annual renewal, and policies for granting exclusions could shift. The U.S. and China could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect our access to the markets. More generally, several governments including the U.S. have raised the possibility of policies to induce “re-shoring” of supply chains, less reliance on imported supplies, and greater national production. One example would be the stronger “Buy American” requirements in the U.S. (pursuant to a U.S. executive order by the new Administration on January 25, 2021) or U.S. withdrawal from the World Trade Organization Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA). If such steps triggered retaliation in other markets, such as by restricting access to foreign products in purchases by their government-owned healthcare systems, the outcomes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters We are subject to a number of laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the United States. The impact of this on us is direct to 12 the extent we are subject to these laws and regulations, and indirect in that in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. The manufacture, distribution, marketing and use of our products are subject to extensive regulation and scrutiny by FDA and other regulatory authorities globally. Any new product must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. The same testing and procedures sometimes apply to current products that are up for authorization or renewal or are subject to changes in laws or regulations (for example certain of our medical devices will have to comply with the new European Union Medical Device Regulation when it enters into force in May 2021). Changes to current products may be subject to vigorous review, including additional 510(k) and other regulatory submissions, and approvals or the time needed to secure approvals are not certain. Our facilities must be approved and licensed prior to production and remain subject to inspection from time to time thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, could result in adverse inspection reports, voluntary or official action indicated, warning letters, import bans, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, reputational damage, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales. The requirements of regulatory authorities, including interpretative guidance, are subject to change and compliance with additional or changing requirements or interpretative guidance may subject us to further review, result in product launch delays or otherwise increase our costs. For information on current regulatory issues affecting us, please refer to the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with these issues, there can be no assurance that additional costs or civil and criminal penalties will not be incurred, that additional regulatory actions with respect to us will not occur, that we will not face civil claims for damages from purchasers or users, that substantial additional charges or significant asset impairments may not be required, that sales of other products may not be adversely affected, or that additional regulation will not be introduced that may adversely affect our operations and consolidated financial statements. The sales, marketing and pricing of products and relationships that pharmaceutical and medical device companies have with healthcare providers are under increased scrutiny by federal, state and foreign government agencies. Compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute, False Claims Act, Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (including as these laws relate to off-label promotion of products) and other healthcare related laws, as well as competition, data and patient privacy and export and import laws, is under increased focus by the agencies charged with overseeing such activities, including FDA, OIG, DOJ and the Federal Trade Commission. The DOJ and the SEC have also increased their focus on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), particularly as it relates to the conduct of pharmaceutical and medical product companies. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Healthcare professionals in many countries are employed by the government and consequently may be considered government officials. Foreign governments have also increased their scrutiny of pharmaceutical and medical product companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships with healthcare providers and competitive practices generally. The laws and standards governing the promotion, pricing, sale and reimbursement of our products and those governing our relationships with healthcare providers and governments, including the Sunshine Act enacted under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as amended, the PPACA), can be complicated, are subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. We are also subject to environmental laws, which are becoming more stringent throughout the world. For example, the EPA regulates the use of ethylene oxide for sterilization of medical devices, as is increasingly focused on reducing emissions from the ethylene oxide sterilization process, which has increased our costs of operations and necessitated changes to our manufacturing plants and processes. Other environmental laws may have similar consequences to us or our suppliers, or result in liability to us. The enactment of additional laws in the future may increase our compliance costs or otherwise adversely impact our operations. Additionally, the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Control and the Bureau of Industry and Security at the U.S. Department of Commerce administer laws and regulations that restrict U.S. persons and, in some instances, non-U.S. persons, in conducting activities, transacting business or making investments in certain countries, or with governments, entities and individuals subject to U.S. economic sanctions. From time to time, 13 certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings with countries subject to these sanctions, including Iran, Sudan, Syria, Russia and Cuba. These dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income but expose us to an increased risk of operating in these countries, including foreign exchange risks or restrictions or limitations on our ability to access funds generated in these jurisdictions, or the risk of violating applicable sanctions or regulations, which are complex and subject to frequent change. Additional restrictions may be enacted, enforced or interpreted in a way that may adversely affect our operations. We have compliance programs in place, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring, designed to address the risks discussed above. Nonetheless, these programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees that violate these laws. Violations or allegations of violations of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment or exclusion from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information related to our ongoing government investigations, please refer to Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information on regulatory matters currently affecting us, including quality-related matters, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The laws and regulations discussed above are broad in scope and subject to evolving interpretations, which could require us to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of our sales and marketing practices and may subject us to enforcement actions or litigation which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and security issues and expanding laws could impact our business and expose us to increased liability. As a global company, we are subject to global data privacy and security laws, regulations and codes of conduct that apply to our businesses. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing legal and regulatory requirements that govern the collection, use, storage, security, transfer, disclosure and other processing of personal data in the United States and in other countries, including, but not limited to, The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended (HIPAA), The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The GDPR imposes stringent European Union data protection requirements and provides for significant penalties for noncompliance. HIPAA also imposes stringent data privacy and security requirements and the regulatory authority has imposed significant fines and penalties on organizations found to be out of compliance. CCPA provides consumers with a private right of action against companies who have a security breach due to lack of appropriate security measures. We or our third-party providers and business partners may also be subjected to audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations, and noncompliance with the laws and regulations could result in substantial and material fines or class action litigation. If reimbursement or other payment for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the United States or in foreign countries, including through the implementation or repeal of government-sponsored healthcare reform or other similar actions, cost containment measures, or changes to policies with respect to pricing, taxation or rebates, our business could suffer. Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by both public and private payers. These payers include Medicare, Medicaid, and private healthcare insurers in the United States and foreign governments and third-party payers outside the United States. Our work with government payers carries various risks inherent in working with government entities and agencies, including government reporting and auditing, additional regulatory oversight, mandated contractual terms, failure of government appropriations or other complex procedural requirements. Public and private payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We may continue to experience downward pricing pressures from any or all of these payers which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operational results. 14 Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world use various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such as price controls, the formation of public contracting authorities, product formularies, which are lists of recommended or approved products, and competitive tenders which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of our products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payers. In much of Europe, Latin America, Asia and Australia, for example, the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and controls its expenditures by purchasing products through public tenders, collective purchasing, regulating prices, setting reference prices in public tenders or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products. Additionally, austerity measures or other reforms by foreign governments may limit, reduce or eliminate payments for our products and adversely affect both pricing flexibility and demand for our products. The PPACA includes several provisions which impact our businesses in the United States, including increased Medicaid rebates and an expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program which provides certain qualified entities, such as hospitals serving disadvantaged populations, with discounts on the purchase of drugs for outpatient use and an excise tax on the sale of certain drugs. The PPACA reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals and other providers, which may cause us to experience downward pricing pressure. Certain portions of the PPACA could negatively impact the demand for our products, and therefore our results of operations and financial position. There have been multiple attempts to repeal or amend the PPACA through legislative action and legal challenges, and the most recent challenge is currently before the U.S. Supreme Court. Recent changes to the composition of the Supreme Court may increase the likelihood that the PPACA is repealed or impacted in some manner. In the event the PPACA is repealed or significantly altered, it would impact our business in a number of ways, some of which may be material. Following a 2019 executive order from former President Donald Trump, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced the launch of a new kidney health initiative. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) published the final end stage renal disease Treatment Choices mandatory payment model (ETC) on September 18, 2020. The ETC launched in 30% of dialysis clinics across the country on January 1, 2021 and creates payment incentives for the greater use of home dialysis and kidney transplants for those already on dialysis. CMS also announced the implementation of four voluntary payment models with the stated goal of helping healthcare providers reduce the cost and improve the quality of care for patients with late-stage chronic kidney disease and ESRD. CMS has stated these payment models are aimed to prevent or delay the need for dialysis and encourage kidney transplantation. These voluntary payment models have a scheduled commencement date of April 2021, but applicants now have the option to delay implementation until January 2022. These proposed regulatory changes in kidney health policy and reimbursement may substantially change the U.S. end stage renal disease market and could increase demand for our peritoneal dialysis products, necessitating significant multi-year capital expenditures in order to meet that demand. However, the impact of such changes and related expenses are difficult to estimate in advance. In addition, a substantial portion of our revenues is dependent on federal healthcare program reimbursement, and any disruptions in federal government operations, including a federal government shutdown or failure of the U.S. government to enact annual appropriations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruptions in federal government operations may negatively impact regulatory approvals and guidance that are important to our operations, and create uncertainty about the pace of upcoming healthcare regulatory developments or approvals. As a result of these and other measures, including future measures or reforms that cannot be predicted, reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time and in ways that may be adverse to us. We cannot predict the impact of these pressures and initiatives, or any negative effects of any additional regulations that may affect our business. 15 If we are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged. Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the United States and in other countries. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patents issued or licensed will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, that our patents will not be found to be invalid or that the intellectual property rights of others will not prevent us from selling certain products or including key features in our products. The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third parties. An unfavorable litigation outcome in any of these types of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the ability to market products, which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect future results of operations. We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. Third parties may know, discover or independently develop equivalent proprietary information or techniques, or they may gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Although our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners are generally subject to confidentiality or similar agreements to protect our confidential and proprietary information, these agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. To the extent that our employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. Furthermore, our intellectual property, other proprietary technology and other sensitive company data is potentially vulnerable to loss, damage or misappropriation from system malfunction, computer viruses, unauthorized access to our data or misappropriation or misuse thereof by those with permitted access and other events. While we have invested to protect our intellectual property, confidential information and other data, and continue to work diligently in this area, there can be no assurance that our precautionary measures will prevent breakdowns, breaches, cyber incidents or other events. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property from any of the foregoing would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results. Changes to the tax laws in the United States or other countries in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In particular, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 and the regulations issued thereunder (collectively, 2017 Tax Act), including, among other things, certain changes in tax rates, deductibility of interest, deductibility of executive compensation expense, expensing of capital expenditures, the ability to use certain tax credits, taxation on earnings from international business operations, and the treatment of deductible payments made by our U.S. affiliates to our foreign affiliates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, the 2017 Tax Act could have a negative effect on our tax rate and the carrying value of tax balances. Any of these changes could adversely affect our financial performance. There remains some uncertainty regarding aspects of the implementation of the 2017 Tax Act that could potentially have adverse impacts on us. We cannot currently predict the full impact that the 2017 Tax Act may have over time on our business, including revenues, profit margins, profitability, operating cash flows and results of operations. For more information regarding the impact of the 2017 Tax Act, see Note 12 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Similarly, the outcome of various initiatives currently being undertaken by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development could significantly impact how we allocate profits across multiple jurisdictions, which could adversely impact our global tax obligations. 16 Taxing authorities audit us from time to time and may disagree with certain positions we have taken in respect of our tax liabilities. Our tax liabilities are affected by many factors, including the amounts we charge in intra-company transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items, which are subject to the use of assumptions and judgment. Because we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States, cross border transactions among our affiliates are a significant part of the manner in which we operate. Although we believe that we transact intra-company business in accordance with arm's-length principles, tax authorities may disagree with our intra-company charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result, including in connection with their review of the restated financial statements we have filed as part of our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, we may not accurately predict the outcome of these audits and, as a result, the actual outcome of these audits may have an adverse impact on our financial results. For more information on ongoing audits, see Note 12 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are party to a number of pending lawsuits and other disputes which may have an adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. We are party to a number of pending lawsuits, settlement discussions, mediations, arbitrations and other disputes. In addition, in the future we may be party to such disputes, including patent, product liability or other lawsuits. These current and future matters may result in a loss of patent protection, reduced revenue, incurrence of significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. Given the uncertain nature of litigation and other disputes generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in these current matters. In view of these uncertainties, the outcome of these matters may result in charges in excess of any established reserves, and, to the extent available, liability insurance. We also continue to be self-insured with respect to product liability claims. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for current or future claims increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Protracted litigation and other disputes, including any adverse outcomes, may have an adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees. See Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding current lawsuits. We identified certain misstatements to our previously issued financial statements and have restated the financial statements described below (the “restatement”), which has exposed us to a number of additional risks and uncertainties. As discussed in the Explanatory Note, in Note 2, Restatement of Previously Issued Consolidated Financial Statements, and in Note 19, Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we restated certain of our previously issued audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements and selected financial information to correct misstatements of certain foreign exchange gains and losses from foreign currency denominated intra-company loan receivables and payables, cash balances and gains and losses from foreign currency derivative contracts, which we determined were material to these periods. As a result of the misstatements and the restatement, we have become subject to additional risks and uncertainties and costs, including as a result of a pending class-action lawsuit and a stockholder request for inspection of our books and records. As initially disclosed on October 24, 2019, we also voluntarily advised the staff of the SEC of our previously disclosed internal investigation and we are continuing to cooperate with the staff of the SEC. We may become subject to enforcement proceedings brought by the SEC or other regulatory or governmental authorities, or subject to other legal proceedings, as a result of the events leading to our internal investigation, the misstatements or the related restatement, and actions and proceedings could also be brought against our current and former employees, officers, or directors. These actions, lawsuits or other legal proceedings related to the misstatements or the restatement could result in reputational harm, additional defense and other costs, regardless of the outcome of the lawsuit or proceeding. If we do not prevail in any such lawsuit or proceeding, we could be subject to substantial damages or settlement costs, criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, disgorgement, civil and criminal fines and penalties. In addition, we continue to be at risk for loss of investor confidence, loss of key employees, changes in management or our board of directors and other reputational issues, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. 17 Risks Related to the Economy and Our Financial Performance Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations could be affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products, in the solvency of our customers or suppliers, or deterioration in our key financial ratios or credit ratings. Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our customers (including governments) to pay for our products and services, and the amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products and services, declining cash flows, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. We continue to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece and Italy, which have experienced deterioration in credit and economic conditions. While global economic conditions have not significantly impacted our ability to collect receivables, liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses. These conditions may also impact the stability of the U.S. dollar, Euro or Yuan. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and liquidity. We generate the majority of our revenue and profit outside the United States. As a result, our financial results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or our ability to mitigate these risks. We may experience additional volatility as a result of inflationary pressures and other macroeconomic factors, including in emerging market countries. We are also exposed to changes in interest rates, and our ability to access the money markets and capital markets could be impeded if market conditions are not favorable. A discussion of the financial impact of foreign exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations, and the ways and extent to which we attempt to mitigate such impact is contained under the caption “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate. Our operating results and financial condition may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year for a number of reasons. Events, such as a delay in product development, changes to our expectations or strategy or even a relatively small revenue shortfall may cause financial results for a period to be below our expectations or projections. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful, and these comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our operating results and financial condition are also subject to fluctuation from all of the risks described throughout this section. These fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our stock price. We may not achieve our financial goals. We continue to evaluate and refine both our short-term and long-term financial objectives. These include, for example, our stated objective to improve our gross margin. Our strategy to achieve these objectives is focused on strengthening our portfolio and extending our impact through transformative innovation that spans prevention to recovery. As part of this strategy, we intend to invest in portfolio innovation and market development and entering adjacencies while continuing to drive operational excellence through ongoing business transformation efforts and organization optimization. We will also look to unlock additional value through strategic capital deployment. We may fail to achieve our targeted financial results if we are unsuccessful in implementing our strategies, our estimates or assumptions change or for any other reason. Our failure to achieve our financial goals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Future material impairments in the value of our long-lived assets, including goodwill, could negatively affect our operating results. We regularly review our long-lived assets, including identifiable intangible assets, goodwill (which results from our acquisition activity) and property, plant and equipment, for impairment. Goodwill and acquired indefinite life intangible assets are subject to impairment review on an annual basis and whenever potential impairment indicators are present. Other long-lived assets are reviewed when there is an indication that impairment may have occurred. Changes in market conditions or other changes in the future outlook of value may lead to impairment charges in the future. In addition, we may from time to time sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy, including in connection with strategic exits. Future events or decisions may lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. Certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. Material impairment charges could negatively affect our results of operations. For more information on the valuation and impairment of long-lived assets, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Critical Accounting Policies” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There could be significant liability if the separation and distribution or any Retained Shares Transaction is determined to be a taxable transaction. Baxalta has indemnified us for certain potential liabilities that may arise, and such indemnification obligation is guaranteed by Shire, but Baxalta and Shire may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future. The separation and distribution and the Retained Shares Transactions (collectively, the Baxter Transactions) qualify for tax-free treatment to Baxter and its stockholders under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). Completion of the separation and distribution was conditioned upon, among other things, the receipt of a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding certain issues relating to the tax-free treatment of the Baxter Transactions. Although the IRS private letter ruling is generally binding on the IRS, the continuing validity of such ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual representations and assumptions made in the ruling. Completion of the distribution was also conditioned upon Baxter’s receipt of a tax opinion from KPMG LLP regarding certain aspects of the Baxalta separation not covered by the IRS private letter ruling. The opinion was based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by Baxter and Baxalta. If any of the factual representations or assumptions in the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion is untrue or incomplete in any material respect, if any undertaking is not complied with, or if the facts upon which the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are based are materially different from the actual facts relating to the Baxter Transactions, the opinion or IRS private letter ruling may not be valid. Moreover, opinions of a tax advisor are not binding on the IRS. As a result, the conclusions expressed in the opinion of a tax advisor could be successfully challenged by the IRS. If the Baxter Transactions are determined to be taxable, Baxter and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement, Baxalta agreed to indemnify us for certain tax-related losses incurred if Baxalta’s actions cause the separation and distribution and certain related transactions to fail to qualify for tax-free status under the applicable provisions of the Code. In anticipation of the merger between Baxalta and Shire (the Merger), we entered into a letter agreement with Shire and Baxalta (the Letter Agreement). Under the Letter Agreement, Baxalta agreed to indemnify, and Shire agreed to guarantee such indemnity to, Baxter and each of its affiliates and each of their respective officers, directors and employees against certain tax-related losses attributable to or resulting from (in whole or in part) the Merger as further described in the Letter Agreement. If the Baxter Transactions are determined to be taxable as a result (in whole or in part) of the Merger (for example, if the Merger is deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the Baxter Transactions), Baxter and its stockholders could incur significant tax liabilities. Although Baxalta and Shire may be required to indemnify Baxter under the tax matters agreement and the Letter Agreement for any such tax liabilities incurred by Baxter, there can be no assurance that the indemnity from Baxalta or the guarantee thereof by Shire will be sufficient to protect us against all or a part of the amount of such liabilities, or that either Baxalta or Shire will fully satisfy their respective obligations. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Baxalta or Shire any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be required to bear these costs initially, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Description of the Company and Business Segments We manage our business based on three geographic segments: Americas (North and South America), EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia-Pacific). Each of our segments provides a broad portfolio of essential healthcare products including acute and chronic dialysis therapies; sterile IV solutions; infusion systems and devices; parenteral nutrition therapies; inhaled anesthetics; generic injectable pharmaceuticals; and surgical hemostat and sealant products. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors’ offices and patients at home under physician supervision. Our global footprint and the critical nature of our products and services play a key role in expanding access to healthcare in emerging and developed countries. For financial information about our segments, see Note 16 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Business Combinations and Asset Acquisitions Seprafilm Adhesion Barrier In February 2020, we completed the acquisition of the product rights to Seprafilm Adhesion Barrier (Seprafilm) from Sanofi for approximately $342 million in cash. Seprafilm is indicated for use in patients undergoing abdominal or pelvic laparotomy as an adjunct intended to reduce the incidence, extent and severity of postoperative adhesions between the abdominal wall and the underlying viscera such as omentum, small bowel, bladder, and stomach, and between the uterus and surrounding structures such as tubes and ovaries, large bowel, and bladder.  Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of Seprafilm. Cheetah Medical In October 2019, we acquired 100 percent of Cheetah Medical, Inc. (Cheetah) for total cash consideration of $188 million, net of cash acquired, with the potential for additional cash consideration, up to $40 million, based on clinical and commercial milestones for which the acquisition date fair value was $18 million. Cheetah is a leading provider of hemodynamic monitoring technologies. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of Cheetah. Recothrom and Preveleak In March 2018, we acquired two hemostat and sealant products from Mallinckrodt plc: Recothrom Thrombin topical (Recombinant), the first and only stand-alone recombinant thrombin, and Preveleak Surgical Sealant, which is used in vascular reconstruction. The purchase price included an upfront payment of approximately $163 million and potential contingent payments in the future. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding the acquisition of the Recothrom and Preveleak products. Transderm Scop In February 2021, we agreed to acquire the rights to Transderm Scop from subsidiaries of GlaxoSmithKline for an upfront purchase price of $55 million plus the cost of acquired inventory and the potential for additional cash consideration of $30 million based upon a successful technology transfer by a specified date. We currently sell this product under a distribution license to the U.S. institutional market. Transderm Scop is indicated for post-operative nausea and vomiting in the U.S. and motion sickness in European markets. We expect the transaction to close late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2021, subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions. Caelyx and Doxil In December 2020, we agreed to acquire the rights to Caelyx and Doxil, the branded versions of liposomal doxorubicin, from a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson for specified territories outside of the U.S for $325 million.  We previously acquired the U.S. rights to this product in 2019.  Liposomal doxorubicin is a chemotherapy medicine used 26 to treat various types of cancer.  We expect the transaction to close late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2021, subject to the satisfaction of regulatory approvals and other closing conditions. Financial Results Our global net sales totaled $11.7 billion in 2020, an increase of 3% over 2019 on both a reported and constant currency basis. International sales totaled $6.8 billion in 2020, an increase of 4% compared to 2019 on a reported basis and 5% on a constant currency basis. Sales in the United States totaled $4.9 billion in 2020, an increase of 1% compared to 2019.  Refer to the Net Sales discussion in the Results of Operations section below for more information related to changes in net sales on a constant currency basis. Our income from continuing operations totaled $1.1 billion, or $2.13 per diluted share, in 2020.  Income from continuing operations in 2020 included special items which resulted in a net decrease to income from continuing operations of $495 million, or $0.96 per diluted share.  Our special items are discussed in the Results of Operations section below. Our financial results included R&D expenses totaling $521 million in 2020, which reflects our focus on balancing investments to support our new product pipeline with efforts to optimize overall R&D spending. Our financial position remains strong, with operating cash flows from continuing operations totaling $1.9 billion in 2020. We have continued to execute on our disciplined capital allocation framework, which is designed to optimize stockholder value creation through reinvestment in our businesses, dividends and share repurchases, as well as acquisitions and other business development initiatives as discussed in the Strategic Objectives section below. Capital expenditures totaled $709 million in 2020 as we continue to invest across our businesses to support future growth, including additional investments in support of new and existing product capacity expansions. Our investments in capital expenditures in 2020 were focused on projects that improve production efficiency and enhance manufacturing capabilities to support our strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets. We also continued to return value to our stockholders in the form of dividends. During 2020, we paid cash dividends to our stockholders totaling $473 million. Additionally, in 2020 we repurchased 6.3 million shares through cash repurchases pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan. For information on our share repurchase plans, see Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Strategic Objectives We continue to focus on several key objectives to successfully execute our long-term strategy to achieve sustainable growth and deliver enhanced stockholder value. Our diversified and broad portfolio of medical products that treat life-threatening acute or chronic conditions and our global presence are core components of our strategy to achieve these objectives. We are focused on three strategic factors as part of our pursuit of industry leading performance: optimizing our core portfolio globally; operational excellence focused on streamlining our cost structure and enhancing operational efficiency; and maintaining a disciplined and balanced approach to capital allocation. Optimizing the Core Portfolio Globally Our global product portfolio optimization strategy identifies products that we believe to have characteristics of core growth, products that we expect to provide us with a core return on capital, products that we intend to maintain or manage differently and products that we consider to be strategic bets. For products with core growth characteristics, we look to invest for long-term, higher margin growth. For products that we expect to generate a core return on capital, we seek to optimize our return on investment and to maintain or enhance our market position. For products that we intend to maintain or manage differently, we look to sustain or reposition our underlying investment. Finally, we are evaluating our market position and investment strategy for products that we consider to be strategic bets. As part of our portfolio management strategy, we seek to optimize our position in product areas where we have a stable, profitable business model, identify and alter investments in products that have reached the end of their life 27 cycles or for which market positions have evolved unfavorably. In the course of doing so, we expect to continue to reallocate capital to more promising opportunities or business groupings, as described above. As part of this strategy, we are shifting our investments to drive innovation in product areas where we have compelling opportunities to serve patients and healthcare professionals while advancing our business and we are accelerating the pace in which we bring these advances to market. We are in the midst of launching several new products, geographic expansions and line extensions by 2023 including in such areas as chronic and acute renal care, smart pump technology, hospital pharmaceuticals and nutritionals, surgical sealants, and more. These comprise a mix of entirely new offerings, improvements on existing technologies, and the expansion of current products into new geographies. Operational Excellence We have undertaken a comprehensive review of all aspects of our operations and are actively implementing changes in line with our business goals. As part of our pursuit of improved margin performance, we are working to optimize our cost structure and we are critically assessing optimal support levels in light of our ongoing portfolio optimization efforts. We intend to continue to actively manage our cost structure to help ensure that we are committing resources to the highest value uses. Such high value activities include supporting innovation, building out the portfolio, expanding patient access and accelerating growth for our stockholders. Maintaining Disciplined and Balanced Capital Allocation Our capital allocation strategies include the following: • reinvest in the business by funding opportunities that are positioned to deliver sustainable growth, support our innovation efforts and improve margin performance; • return capital to stockholders through dividends, which we expect to meaningfully increase with earnings growth; • share repurchases; and • identify and pursue accretive merger and acquisition (M&A) opportunities. Responsible Corporate Citizen We strive for continued growth and profitability, while furthering our focus on acting as a responsible corporate citizen. To us, sustainability means creating lasting social, environmental and economic value by addressing the needs of our wide-ranging stakeholder base. Our comprehensive sustainability program is focused on areas in which we are uniquely positioned to make a positive impact. Priorities include providing employees a safe, healthy and inclusive workplace, fostering a culture that drives integrity, strengthening access to healthcare, enhancing math and science education, and driving environmental performance across the product life cycle, including development, manufacturing and transport. Along with the Baxter International Foundation, we provide financial support and product donations in support of critical needs, from assisting underserved communities to providing emergency relief for countries experiencing natural disasters. Throughout 2020, we continued to implement a range of water conservation strategies and facility-based energy saving initiatives. In the area of product stewardship and life cycle management, we are pursuing efforts such as sustainable design and reduced packaging. We are also responding to the challenges of climate change through innovative greenhouse gas emissions-reduction programs, such as shifting to less carbon-intensive energy sources in manufacturing and transport. Additionally, we monitor our progress against long-term goals to drive continued environmental stewardship while creating healthier, more sustainable communities where our employees work and live. Risk Factors Our ability to sustain long-term growth and successfully execute the strategies discussed above depends in part on our ability to manage within an increasingly competitive and regulated environment and to address the other risk factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 28 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Items The following table provides a summary of our special items and the related impact by line item on our results of continuing operations for 2020, 2019 and 2018. 29 Intangible asset amortization expense is identified as a special item to facilitate an evaluation of current and past operating performance and is consistent with how management and our Board of Directors internally assess performance. Additional special items are identified above because they are highly variable, difficult to predict and of a size that may substantially impact our results of operations for a period. Management believes that providing the separate impact of the above items on our results in accordance with U.S. GAAP may provide a more complete understanding of our operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of our results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. 1 In 2020 and 2019, our results included charges of $17 million and $31 million, respectively, for asset impairments related to developed-technology intangible assets. Refer to Note 4 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these asset impairments. 2 In 2020, 2019 and 2018, our results were impacted by costs associated with our execution of programs to optimize our organization and cost structure. These actions included streamlining our international operations, rationalizing our manufacturing facilities, reducing our general and administrative infrastructure, re-aligning certain R&D activities and canceling certain R&D programs. Our results in 2020, 2019 and 2018 included business optimization charges of $134 million, $184 million and $220 million, respectively.  Additionally, we recognized a gain of $17 million in 2020 for property we sold in conjunction with our business optimization initiatives. Refer to Note 10 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding these charges and related liabilities. 3 Our results in 2020 included a charge of $29 million related to Sigma Spectrum infusion pump inspection and remediation activities. Our results in 2018 included a net benefit of $6 million related to an adjustment to our accrual for Sigma Spectrum infusion pump inspection and remediation activities. 4 Our results in 2020 included $40 million of acquisition and integration expenses related to the acquisitions of Cheetah and Seprafilm and in-process R&D assets, partially offset by a benefit related to the change in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. Our results in 2019 included $54 million of acquisition and integration expenses. This included integration expenses relate to our acquisitions of Claris Injectables Limited (Claris) and the Recothrom and Preveleak products in prior periods, as well as the 2019 acquisitions of Cheetah and in-process R&D assets, partially offset by a benefit related to the change in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. Our results in 2018 included $33 million of acquisition and integration costs related to our acquisitions of Claris and the Recothrom and Preveleak products, upfront payments related to R&D collaborations and license agreements, and a gain from remeasuring our previously held investment to fair value upon acquisition of a controlling interest in our joint venture in Saudi Arabia. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding business development activities. 5 Our results in 2018 included charges of $10 million related to certain product litigation. 6 Our results in 2019 and 2018 included benefits of $100 million and $42 million, respectively, related to insurance recoveries as a result of losses incurred due to Hurricane Maria. Refer to Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 7 Our results in 2020, 2019 and 2018 included costs of $33 million, $25 million and $9 million, respectively, related to updating our quality systems and product labeling to comply with the new medical device reporting regulation and other requirements of the European Union’s regulations for medical devices that are scheduled to become effective in 2021. 8 Our results in 2020 and 2019 included charges of $23 million and $8 million, respectively, for investigation and related costs. This included $15 million in 2020 and $8 million in 2019 related to our investigation of foreign exchange gains and losses associated with certain intra-company transactions and related legal matters. Additionally, we recorded incremental stock compensation expense of $8 million in 2020 as we extended the term of certain stock options that were scheduled to expire in the first quarter of 2020. Refer to Notes 7 and 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the investigation and stock compensation expense. 30 9 Our results in 2018 included a benefit of $80 million for the settlement of certain claims related to the acquired operations of Claris. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 10 Our results in 2019 included a benefit of $37 million for our allocation of insurance proceeds received pursuant to a settlement and cost-sharing arrangement for a legacy product-related matter.  Refer to Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 11 Our results in 2020 included a charge of $43 million related to lump-sum settlement distributions made to certain former U.S. employees with vested pension benefits. Our results in 2019 included a charge of $755 million related to the annuitization of a portion of our U.S. pension plan. Refer to Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the lump-sum settlements and the pension annuitization. 12 Our results in 2020 included a loss of $110 million on the November 2020 early extinguishment of $750 million of 3.75% senior notes that were issued in March 2020.  Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 13 Reflected in this item is the income tax impact of the special items identified in this table. The tax effect of each special item is based on the jurisdiction in which the item was incurred and the tax laws in effect for each such jurisdiction. Additionally, our results in 2019 included a net tax benefit of $125 million related to income tax reform in Switzerland and India and an adjustment for U.S. federal tax reform. Our results in 2018 included a net tax benefit of $196 million related to updates to the estimated impact of U.S. federal tax reform previously made in 2017. Net Sales Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased 3% at actual and constant currency rates. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 increased 2% at actual rates and 5% at constant currency rates. Foreign currency exchange rates had no net impact on 2020 net sales growth. Foreign currency exchange rates unfavorably impacted 2019 net sales growth by three percentage points principally due to the strengthening of the U.S Dollar relative to the Euro, Australian Dollar, British Pound, Chinese Yuan and Colombian Peso. The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect current year local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates had not changed between the prior and the current period. We believe that the non-GAAP measure of change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the U.S. GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding and facilitate a fuller analysis of our results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another. In 2020, the acquisition of Seprafilm contributed $94 million in revenue. In 2020 and 2019, the acquisition of Cheetah had an insignificant impact on reported revenues. The Recothrom and Preveleak products acquired in 2018 contributed $80 million and $52 million of revenues in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and epidemics/pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 has had, and we expect will continue to have, an adverse impact on our operations, supply chains and distribution systems and has increased and we expect will continue to increase our expenses, including as a result of impacts associated with preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments are taking. These measures have led to unprecedented restrictions on, disruptions in, and other related impacts on businesses and personal activities. In addition to travel restrictions put in place in early 31 2020, governments have closed borders, imposed prolonged quarantines and may continue those measures or implement other restrictions and requirements in light of the continuing spread of the pandemic.  We expect that these evolving restrictions and requirements, as well as the corresponding need to adapt to new methods of conducting business remotely, will continue to have an adverse effect on our business. For further discussion, refer to the Global Business Unit Net Sales Reporting section below and Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Global Business Unit Net Sales Reporting Our global business units (GBUs) include the following: • Renal Care includes sales of our peritoneal dialysis (PD), hemodialysis (HD) and additional dialysis therapies and services. • Medication Delivery includes sales of our intravenous (IV) therapies, infusion pumps, administration sets and drug reconstitution devices. • Pharmaceuticals includes sales of our premixed and oncology drug platforms, inhaled anesthesia and critical care products and pharmacy compounding services. • Clinical Nutrition includes sales of our parenteral nutrition (PN) therapies and related products. • Advanced Surgery includes sales of our biological products and medical devices used in surgical procedures for hemostasis, tissue sealing and adhesion prevention. • Acute Therapies includes sales of our continuous renal replacement therapies (CRRT) and other organ support therapies focused in the intensive care unit (ICU). • Other primarily includes sales of contract manufacturing services from our pharmaceutical partnering business. The following is a summary of net sales by GBU. Renal Care net sales increased 3% in 2020 and were flat in 2019. The increase in 2020 was driven by global patient growth in PD, partially offset by a 1% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Global patient growth in PD in 2019 was offset by lower U.S. in-center HD sales and a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Medication Delivery net sales decreased 2% in 2020 and increased 5% in 2019. The decrease in 2020 was primarily driven by lower demand for our infusion systems and related IV administration sets and solutions due to lower hospital admission rates and a reduction in elective surgeries resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, including the impact from shelter in place initiatives as well as patient safety concerns related to potential COVID-19 infection risk. The increase in 2019 was attributable to increased sales of our Spectrum IQ Infusion System in the U.S. and EVO IQ Infusion System internationally and related IV access administration sets. Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact on Medication Delivery net sales of 2% in 2019, compared to the prior-year period. Pharmaceuticals net sales decreased 1% in 2020 and increased 3% in 2019. The decrease in 2020 was driven by lower demand for inhaled anesthesia products resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and new competitive entrants for TransDerm Scop. Those impacts were partially offset by increased demand for our international pharmacy compounding services along with certain generic injectables and a nonrecurring purchase from the U.S. 32 government. The increase in 2019 was due to growth in international pharmacy compounding sales and increased sales of our generic injectables. Partially offsetting those increases were reduced sales of inhaled anesthetics as well as BREVIBLOC and U.S. cylophosphamide due to increased generic competition.  Changes in foreign exchange rates had a negative impact on Pharmaceuticals net sales of 3% in 2019, compared to the prior-year period. Clinical Nutrition net sales increased 6% in 2020 and were flat in 2019. The increase in 2020 was driven by increased demand for our PN therapies and related products, recent product launches and competitor shortages of amino acids. A positive impact on net sales in 2019 from the launch of new products was offset by a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Advanced Surgery net sales increased 1% and 10% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in 2020 was driven by the acquisition of Seprafilm, which contributed $94 million in net sales during 2020, and a benefit from increased demand for our hemostats and sealants early in the year due, in part, to competitive supply disruptions.  Partially offsetting the increase was the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as many elective surgeries were postponed. The increase in 2019 was primarily driven by higher sales as a result of a temporary supply disruption of a competitor, partially offset by a 2% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Acute Therapies net sales increased 38% and 4% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in 2020 was driven by increased global demand for our CRRT systems to treat acute kidney injuries during the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by a 1% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. The increase in 2019 was due to higher global demand for our CRRT systems to treat acute kidney injuries, including the launch of PrisMax in several countries across the Americas, Europe and Asia. Partially offsetting the increase in 2019 was a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Other net sales increased 5% in 2020 and decreased 5% in 2019.  The increase in 2020 was driven by increased demand for our contract manufacturing services and a 1% positive impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in 2019 was due to strong sales performance in 2018 and a 3% negative impact from foreign exchange rate changes, as compared to the prior-year period. Gross Margin and Expense Ratios Gross Margin The gross margin ratio was 39.3%, 41.9% and 42.9% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 3.1, 3.0 and 2.0 percentage points on the gross margin ratio in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Excluding the impact of the special items, the gross margin ratio decreased 2.5 percentage points in 2020 compared to 2019 due to an unfavorable product mix, additional compensation costs, primarily for our manufacturing employees, reduced manufacturing efficiencies and incremental logistics costs, all resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Excluding the impact of the special items, the gross margin ratio was unchanged in 2019 compared to 2018. The gross margin ratio was impacted by an unfavorable product mix as well as inventory write-downs and incremental costs relating to improvements at a dialyzer facility in the U.S. that experienced manufacturing issues during the second quarter of 2019, offset by manufacturing efficiencies. 33 SG&A The SG&A expenses ratio was 21.2%, 22.3% and 23.6% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 1.0, 0.9 and 1.5 percentage points on the SG&A expenses ratio in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Excluding the impact of the special items, the SG&A expenses ratio decreased 1.2 percentage points in 2020 primarily due to lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans, actions we took to restructure our cost position and focus on expense management and reduced travel and related expenses due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Excluding the impact of the special items, the SG&A expenses ratio decreased 0.7 percentage points in 2019 primarily due to actions we took to restructure our cost position and focus on expense management. R&D The R&D expenses ratio was 4.5%, 5.2% and 5.9% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The special items identified above had an unfavorable impact of 0.3, 0.4 and 0.3 percentage points on the R&D expenses ratio in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Excluding the impact of the special items, the R&D expenses ratio decreased 0.6 percentage points in 2020 as a result of reduced project-related expenditures compared to the prior year and actions we took to restructure our cost position and focus on expense management. Excluding the impact of the special items, the R&D expenses ratio decreased 0.8 percentage points in 2019 as a result of reduced project-related expenditures compared to the prior year and actions we took to restructure our cost position and focus on expense management. Business Optimization Items In recent years, we have undertaken actions to transform our cost structure and enhance our operational efficiency. These efforts have included restructuring the organization, optimizing our manufacturing footprint, R&D operations and supply chain network, employing disciplined cost management, and centralizing and streamlining certain support functions. From the commencement of our business optimization actions in the second half of 2015 through December 31, 2020, we have incurred cumulative pre-tax costs of $1.1 billion related to these actions. The costs consisted primarily of employee termination costs, implementation costs, contract termination costs, asset impairments, and accelerated depreciation. We currently expect to incur additional pre-tax costs of approximately $14 million through the completion of the initiatives that are currently underway, primarily related to implementation costs. We continue to pursue cost savings initiatives and, to the extent further cost savings opportunities are identified, we may incur additional restructuring charges and costs to implement business optimization programs in future periods. The reductions in our cost base from these actions in the aggregate are expected to provide cumulative annual pretax savings of more than $1.2 billion once the remaining actions are complete. The savings from these actions will impact cost of sales, SG&A expenses, and R&D expenses. Approximately 95 percent of the expected annual pre-tax savings has been realized through December 31, 2020, with the remainder expected to be realized by the end of 2023. Refer to Note 10 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our business optimization programs. Other Operating Income, Net Other operating income, net was $19 million, $141 million and $99 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  In 2020, we recognized a $17 million gain on the sale of property in conjunction with our business optimization initiatives. In 2020 and 2019, we recognized benefits of $2 million and $4 million, respectively, related to the change in the estimated fair value of contingent consideration liabilities. In 2019 and 2018, we recognized $100 million and $10 million, respectively, of insurance recoveries related to losses incurred due to Hurricane Maria within Other operating income, net. In 2019, we also recognized a benefit of $37 million when our share of the proceeds under a cost-sharing agreement became realizable following the resolution of a dispute with an insurer related to a legacy product-related matter. In 2018, we settled certain claims with the seller related to the acquired operations of Claris, which resulted in a benefit of $80 million.  Additionally, included in other operating income in 2018 was $9 million of transition service income earned in connection with our separation of Baxalta in 2015.  The agreement for these services terminated as of July 1, 2018. 34 Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net was $134 million, $71 million and $45 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in 2020 was primarily driven by higher average debt outstanding as a result of the March 2020 issuance of $750 million of 3.75% senior notes due October 2025 and $500 million of 3.95% senior notes due April 2030, and the May 2019 issuance of €750 million of 0.40% senior notes due May 2024 and €750 million of 1.3% senior notes due May 2029. The 3.75% senior notes due October 2025 were repaid in November 2020 with the proceeds from the issuance of $650 million of 1.73% senior notes due April 2031 and cash on hand. The increase in 2019 was primarily driven by higher average debt outstanding as a result of the issuance of €750 million of 0.40% senior notes due May 2024 and €750 million of 1.3% senior notes due May 2029.  Refer to Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a summary of the components of interest expense, net for 2020, 2019 and 2018. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net was an expense of $190 million in 2020, expense of $731 million in 2019 and income of $78 million in 2018. The net expense in 2020 was primarily driven by a $110 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt related to our November 2020 redemption of $750 million of senior notes that were issued in March 2020, foreign exchange net losses of $49 million and $46 million of pension settlement charges, which included a $43 million charge related to lump-sum settlement distributions made to certain former U.S. employees with vested pension benefits. These expenses in 2020 were partially offset by net unrealized gains of $13 million related to marketable equity securities. The net expense in 2019 was primarily driven by a $755 million pension settlement charge related to the transfer of U.S. pension plan liabilities to an insurance company and $37 million of foreign exchange net losses, partially offset by $53 million of pension and OPEB plan net benefits. The income in 2018 was primarily driven by $49 million of pension and OPEB plan net benefits, a $24 million gain from remeasuring our previously held investment to fair value upon acquisition of a controlling interest in our joint venture in Saudi Arabia and foreign exchange net gains of $14 million. We expect expenses from pension and OPEB plans to increase in 2021 primarily due to lower discount rates and a lower expected return on assets. Refer to Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding pension and OPEB plan expenses. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for continuing operations was 14.1% in 2020, (4.2)% in 2019, and 4.0% in 2018. The special items identified above had a favorable impact of 2.6, 20.9 and 13.7 percentage points on the effective income tax rate in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Refer to the Special Items section above for additional detail. Our effective income tax rate can differ from the 21% U.S. federal statutory rate due to a number of factors, including foreign rate differences, tax incentives, increases or decreases in valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain tax positions and excess tax benefits on stock compensation awards. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was primarily attributable to favorable geographic earnings mix and excess tax benefits on stock compensation awards. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2019, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was primarily due to special items, the most significant of which was the impact of recently enacted tax reform in Switzerland and India.  We recognized a deferred tax benefit of $90 million to reflect a tax basis step-up, net of a valuation allowance, partially offset by a $5 million deferred tax revaluation to reflect an increase in the statutory tax rate, under the newly enacted Swiss tax laws.  We also recognized a net deferred tax benefit of $24 million associated with deferred tax revaluation in India to reflect a decrease in the statutory tax rate. In addition to the Swiss and Indian tax reform impacts, our effective rate in 2019 was different from the U.S. federal statutory rate due to the recognition of tax benefits associated with a favorable tax ruling, a benefit related to a notional interest deduction on the share capital of a foreign subsidiary, and excess tax benefits on stock compensation awards. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2018, the difference between our effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate was primarily due to special items, the most significant of which was our finalization of our provisional adjustments resulting from the 2017 Tax Act.  SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 (SAB 118) allowed a one-year measurement period from the December 22, 2017 Tax Act enactment date to refine the provisional amounts recognized in the 2017 financial statements. 35 We recorded several SAB 118 measurement period provisional adjustments in 2018.  First, after further studying the 2017 Tax Act and related U.S. Treasury Regulations, we refined our provisional estimate of a full valuation allowance against our U.S. foreign tax credit deferred tax assets and released a $194 million valuation allowance due to our ability to utilize a portion of our U.S. foreign tax credit deferred tax assets. Second, the 2017 Tax Act requires us to pay U.S. income taxes on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to U.S. income tax at a rate of 15.5% to the extent of foreign cash and certain other net current assets and 8% on the remaining earnings. During 2018, we refined our estimated one-time transition tax expense, recognizing a benefit of $5 million. Third, the 2017 Tax Act lowered the U.S. federal rate from 35% to 21% and generally exempts foreign income from U.S. taxation. We finalized our provisional revaluation of U.S. deferred tax assets, recording an additional $8 million benefit.  Refer to Note 12 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information related to the 2017 Tax Act and the finalization of associated SAB 118 provisional adjustments. Additionally, our effective rate in 2018 was different from the U.S. federal statutory rate due to excess tax benefits on stock compensation. Our tax provisions for 2020, 2019 and 2018 do not include any tax charges related to either the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (BEAT) or Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI) provisions, except for the inability to fully utilize foreign tax credits against such GILTI. We anticipate that our effective income tax rate from continuing operations, calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, will be approximately 18% in 2021.  This rate may be further impacted by a number of factors including discrete items, such as tax windfalls or deficiencies attributable to stock compensation awards, additional audit developments, or the tax effects of any future special items. Income from Continuing Operations and Earnings per Diluted Share Income from continuing operations was $1.1 billion in 2020, $1.0 billion in 2019 and $1.6 billion in 2018. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations was $2.13 in 2020, $1.93 in 2019 and $2.84 in 2018. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2019 to 2020 and 2018 to 2019 are discussed above. Additionally, earnings per share from continuing operations was positively impacted by the repurchase of 35.8 million shares in 2018 through Rule 10b5-1 purchase plans, an accelerated share repurchase plan and otherwise and the repurchase of 16.5 million shares in 2019 through Rule 10b5-1 purchase plans, an accelerated share repurchase plan and otherwise. Refer to Note 8 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our stock repurchases. Loss from Discontinued Operations Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $6 million in 2018 and related to Baxalta. Segment results We use operating income on a segment basis to make resource allocation decisions and assess the ongoing performance of our segments. Refer to Note 16 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details regarding our segments. The following is a summary of significant factors impacting our reportable segments’ financial results. Americas Segment operating income was $2.2 billion, $2.4 billion and $2.4 billion in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in 2020 was primarily driven by decreased sales and gross margin in multiple GBUs, particularly Medication Delivery, Pharmaceuticals and Advanced Surgery, and lower gross profit as a result of an unfavorable product mix and incremental logistics costs due primarily to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The decreases 36 were partially offset by favorable performance in Acute Therapies and Clinical Nutrition as well as the acquisition of Seprafilm. The decrease in 2019 was primarily driven by lower sales and gross margin in Pharmaceuticals and lower U.S. in-center HD sales, partially offset by favorable performance in Medication Delivery and Advanced Surgery, primarily due to a temporary supply disruption of a competitor. Additionally, results in 2019 were adversely impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rates. EMEA Segment operating income was $677 million, $652 million and $666 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in 2020 was primarily driven by increased sales and gross margin in Acute Therapies, Clinical Nutrition, Pharmaceuticals and Renal Care, partially offset by decreased sales in Advanced Surgery. The decrease in 2019 was primarily driven by unfavorable foreign exchange rates, partially offset by increased local currency sales and gross margin in Renal Care and Pharmaceuticals. APAC Segment operating income was $591 million, $549 million and $532 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase in 2020 was primarily driven by increased sales and gross margin in multiple GBUs, particularly Renal Care, Acute Therapies and Pharmaceuticals. The acquisition of Seprafilm also positively contributed to results in 2020. Results in 2019 were driven by higher sales and gross margin, primarily from China and Australia, in Renal Care and Pharmaceuticals. Corporate and other Certain items are maintained at Corporate and are not allocated to a segment. They primarily include certain foreign currency hedging activities, corporate headquarters costs, certain R&D costs, certain GBU support costs, stock compensation expense, certain employee benefit plan costs, and certain gains, losses, and other charges (such as business optimization, acquisition and integration costs, intangible asset amortization and asset impairments).  The operating loss in 2020 was higher than 2019 due to insurance recoveries received in 2019 from a legacy product-related matter and Hurricane Maria, as well as the Sigma Spectrum infusion pump inspection and remediation charge in 2020 and higher investigation and related costs and intangible asset amortization in 2020.  Partially offsetting the increase in 2020 was lower business optimization charges, lower intangible asset impairment charges, lower bonus accruals under our annual employee incentive compensation plans and reduced travel and related expenses. The operating loss in 2019 decreased due to higher Hurricane Maria insurance recoveries in 2019, a benefit for our allocation of insurance proceeds received pursuant to a settlement and cost-sharing arrangement for a legacy product-related matter in 2019, lower SG&A and R&D expenses in 2019 and lower business optimization charges in 2019, partially offset by an impairment of a developed-technology intangible asset in 2019 and the benefit from the Claris settlement in 2018. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Flows from Operations — Continuing Operations In 2020, 2019 and 2018, cash provided by operating activities was $1.9 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively.  Operating cash flows decreased in 2020 primarily due to payments of $173 million to settle interest rate derivative contracts in 2020, an increase in inventory levels in 2020 and insurance recoveries received in 2019 from a legacy product-related matter and Hurricane Maria, partially offset by the timing of vendor payments and lower restructuring and employee incentive compensation payments in 2020.  Operating cash flows increased in 2019 primarily due to an increase in our operating income, which included the insurance recoveries related to Hurricane Maria and a legacy product-related matter. Cash Flows from Investing Activities In 2020, cash used for investing activities included payments for acquisitions of $494 million, primarily related to Seprafilm and multiple product acquisitions, and capital expenditures of $709 million. In 2019, cash used for investing activities included payments for acquisitions of $418 million, primarily related to Cheetah and multiple product acquisitions, and capital expenditures of $696 million. In 2018, cash used in investing activities included 37 payments for acquisitions of $268 million, primarily related to Recothrom and Preveleak and multiple product acquisitions, and capital expenditures of $659 million. We expect that our capital expenditures will increase in 2021 as we make investments in our manufacturing capacity in response to proposed regulatory changes of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in kidney health policy and reimbursement, which may substantially change the U.S. end stage renal disease market and demand for our peritoneal dialysis products. In February 2021, we agreed to acquire the rights to Transderm Scop from subsidiaries of GlaxoSmithKline for an upfront purchase price of $55 million plus the cost of acquired inventory and the potential for additional cash consideration of $30 million based upon a successful technology transfer by a specified date. We expect the transaction to close late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2021, subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions. In December 2020, we agreed to acquire the rights to Caelyx and Doxil, the branded versions of liposomal doxorubicin, from a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson for specified territories outside of the U.S for $325 million.  We expect the transaction to close late in the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2021, subject to the satisfaction of regulatory approvals and other closing conditions. Refer to Note 2 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about our significant acquisitions and other arrangements. Cash Flows from Financing Activities In 2020, cash generated from financing activities included $1.2 billion of net proceeds from the March 2020 issuance of $750 million of senior notes due in 2025 and $500 million of senior notes due in 2030. In November 2020, we issued $650 million of senior notes due in 2031 and used the proceeds, along with cash on hand, to redeem the $750 million senior notes due in 2025 that were issued in March 2020 for $854 million, which included a $104 million make-whole premium. We have used the net proceeds from the senior notes issuances and redemptions for general corporate purposes, including to strengthen our balance sheet as a precautionary measure in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.  In 2020, we also repaid $322 million of variable rate notes that matured and the borrowings under our Euro-denominated credit facility of €200 million ($225 million). Financing activities in 2020 also included payments for stock repurchases of $500 million, dividend payments of $473 million and receipts from stock issued under employee benefit plans of $202 million. In 2019, cash generated from financing activities included $1.7 billion in net proceeds from the issuance of €750 million of senior notes due in 2024 and €750 million of senior notes due in 2029, €200 million ($222 million) of borrowings under our Euro-denominated credit facility and stock issued under employee benefit plans of $356 million, partially offset by payments for stock repurchases of $1.3 billion and dividend payments of $423 million. In 2018, cash used for financing activities included payments for stock repurchases of $2.5 billion and dividend payments of $376 million, partially offset by the proceeds from stock issued under employee benefit plans of $258 million. As authorized by the Board of Directors, we repurchase our stock depending upon our cash flows, net debt levels and market conditions. In July 2012, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion of our common stock. The Board of Directors increased this authority by an additional $1.5 billion in each of November 2016 and February 2018, by an additional $2.0 billion in November 2018 and by an additional $1.5 billion in October 2020. We paid $500 million in cash to repurchase approximately 6.3 million shares under this authority pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan in 2020 and had $1.9 billion remaining available under this authorization as of December 31, 2020. In December 2018, we entered into a $300 million accelerated share repurchase agreement (ASR Agreement) with an investment bank. We funded the ASR Agreement with available cash. Under the ASR Agreement, we received 3.6 million shares upon execution. Based on the volume-weighted average price of our common stock during the term of the ASR Agreement, we received an additional 0.6 million shares from the investment bank at settlement in May 2019. 38 Credit Facilities and Access to Capital and Credit Ratings Credit Facilities As of December 31, 2020, our U.S. dollar-denominated revolving credit facility had capacity of $2.0 billion.  As of December 31, 2020, our Euro-denominated revolving credit facility had a capacity of approximately €200 million. Each of the facilities matures in 2024. There were no amounts outstanding under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2020. There was no amount outstanding under our U.S. dollar-denominated credit facility as of December 31, 2019 and €200 million ($224 million) was outstanding at a 0.91% interest rate under our Euro-denominated credit facility as of December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting either of the credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity of these facilities by the institution’s respective commitment. We also maintain other credit arrangements, as described in Note 5 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Access to Capital and Credit Ratings We intend to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand and future cash flows from operations or by issuing additional debt. We had $3.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020, with adequate cash available to meet operating requirements in each jurisdiction in which we operate. We invest our excess cash in money market and other funds and diversify the concentration of cash among different financial institutions. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $6.2 billion of long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including current maturities. Subject to market conditions, we regularly evaluate opportunities with respect to our capital structure. Our ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt, including commercial paper, or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for our products or in the solvency of our customers or suppliers, deterioration in our key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, we believe we have sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support our growth objectives. Our credit ratings at December 31, 2020 were as follows: LIBOR Reform In 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced that after 2021 it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and other interbank offered rates, which have been widely used as reference rates for various securities and financial contracts, including loans, debt and derivatives. This announcement indicated that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis was not guaranteed after 2021. Regulators in the U.S. and other jurisdictions have been working to replace these rates with alternative reference interest rates that are supported by transactions in liquid and observable markets, such as the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). In 2020, it was announced that certain U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors would not cease until 2023. Currently, our credit facilities reference LIBOR-based rates. The discontinuation of LIBOR will require these arrangements to be modified in order to replace LIBOR with an alternative reference interest rate, which could impact our cost of funds. Our credit facilities include a provision specifying that we and the lenders will negotiate in good faith for the determination of a successor LIBOR rate. 39 Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2020, we had contractual obligations, excluding accounts payable and accrued liabilities, payable or maturing in the following periods. 1. Interest payments on debt and finance lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2020. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2020. Refer to Note 5 and Note 6, respectively, in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion regarding our debt instruments outstanding and finance lease obligations at December 31, 2020. 2. The primary components of other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 are pension and other postretirement benefits, deferred tax liabilities, long-term tax liabilities, and litigation and environmental reserves. We projected the timing of the related future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from our estimates. We contributed $74 million, $69 million, and $51 million to our defined benefit pension plans in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The timing of funding in future periods is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates, investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes cash outflows related to our pension plans. The amount included within other non-current liabilities (and excluded from the table above) related to our pension plan liabilities was $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2020. In 2021, we have no obligation to fund our principal plans in the United States and we expect to make contributions of at least $45 million to our foreign pension plans. Additionally, we have excluded long-term tax liabilities, which include liabilities for unrecognized tax positions, and deferred tax liabilities from the table above because we are unable to estimate the timing of the related cash outflows. The amounts of long-term tax liabilities and deferred tax liabilities included within other non-current liabilities (and excluded from the table above) were $84 million and $143 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2020. 3. Includes our significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancellable agreements, any penalty due upon cancellation is included. These commitments do not exceed our projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material purchases, utility agreements and service contracts. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We periodically enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheets in accordance with U.S. GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, we may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). For a discussion of our significant off-balance sheet arrangements, refer to Note 14 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding receivable transactions, and Note 2 and Note 7 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding joint development and commercialization arrangements, indemnifications and legal contingencies. 40 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK We operate on a global basis and are exposed to the risk that our earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. Our hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on our judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 14 and Note 15 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding our financial instruments and hedging strategies. Currency Risk We are primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to revenues generated outside of the United States denominated in the Euro, British Pound, Chinese Yuan, Korean Won, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Japanese Yen, Colombian Peso, Brazilian Real, Mexican Peso, Indian Rupee and Swedish Krona. We manage our foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows us to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, we use derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and stockholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. However, we don't hedge our entire foreign exchange exposure and are still subject to earnings and stockholders' equity volatility relating to foreign exchange risk.  Financial market and currency volatility may limit our ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures. We use options and forwards to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions and recognized assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. The maximum term over which we have cash flow hedge contracts in place related to foreign exchange risk on forecasted transactions as of December 31, 2020 is 12 months. We also enter into derivative instruments to hedge foreign exchange risk on certain intra-company and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies. As part of our risk-management program, we perform sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of our foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2020, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly weakened by 10% against all currencies, the net pre-tax liability balance of $8 million with respect to those contracts would increase by $32 million, resulting in a net asset position. A similar analysis performed with respect to contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2019 indicated that, on a pre-tax basis, the net asset balance of $9 million would decrease by $18 million, resulting in a net liability position. The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2020 by replacing the actual exchange rates as of December 31, 2020 with exchange rates that are 10% weaker compared to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances. Our operations in Argentina are reported using highly inflationary accounting effective July 1, 2018.  Changes in the value of the Argentine peso applied to our peso-denominated net monetary asset positions are recorded in income at the time of the change.  As of December 31, 2020, our net monetary assets denominated in Argentine pesos are not significant. Interest Rate Risk We are also exposed to the risk that our earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. Our policy is to manage interest costs using the mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that we believe is appropriate at that time. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, we periodically enter into interest rate swaps in which we agree to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. We also periodically use forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt. As of December 31, 2020, all of our outstanding debt obligations were at fixed interest rates and no interest rate derivative instruments were outstanding. 41 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on changes in accounting standards. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS There are no accounting standards issued but not yet effective that we believe will have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in Note 1 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain of our accounting policies are considered critical, as these policies are the most important to the depiction of our financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by us, often employing the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from our estimates could have an unfavorable effect on our results of operations and financial position. The following is a summary of accounting policies that we consider critical to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances Revenues from product sales are recorded at the net sales price (transaction price), which includes estimates of variable consideration primarily related to rebates and wholesaler chargebacks. These reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales. Our estimates take into consideration historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data, and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Overall, these reserves reflect our best estimates of the amount of consideration to which we are entitled based on the terms of the contract. The amount of variable consideration included in the net sales price is limited to the amount that is probable not to result in a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized in a future period.  Additionally, our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately and determining the allocation of the transaction price may require significant judgment. Pension and OPEB Plans We provide pension and other postretirement benefits to certain of our employees. The service component of employee benefit expenses is reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statements as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. All other components of these employee benefit expenses are reported in other (income) expense, net in our consolidated statements of income. The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost for the plans is calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually and revised if appropriate. The significant assumptions include the following: • interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities; • the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets; • rates of increases in employee compensation (used in estimating liabilities); • anticipated future healthcare trend rates (used in estimating the OPEB plan liability); and • other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover (used in estimating liabilities). Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. Our key assumptions are listed in Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to our consolidated financial statements. 42 Discount Rate Assumption Effective for the December 31, 2020 measurement date, we utilized discount rates of 2.73% and 2.33% to measure our benefit obligations for the U.S. and Puerto Rico pension plans and OPEB plan, respectively. We used a broad population of approximately 200 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2020 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of approximately 700 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds we would most likely select if we were to actually annuitize our pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve. For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and other European countries, we use a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For our other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates. To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, we perform a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point (i.e., one-half of one percent) increase in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease by approximately $25 million, and for each 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would increase by approximately $30 million. Return on Plan Assets Assumption In measuring the net periodic cost for 2020, we used a long-term expected rate of return of 6.5% for the pension plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. This assumption will decrease to 5.5% in 2021. This assumption is not applicable to our OPEB plan because it is not funded. We establish the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on our asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations. The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both our actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future. To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, we perform a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $15 million. Other Assumptions For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, we used the Pri-2012 combined mortality table with improvements projected using the MP-2019 projection scale adjusted to a long-term improvement of 0.8% as of December 31, 2020. For all other pension plans, we utilized country- and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. We periodically analyze and update our assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends. The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances, Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions and Tax Reform We maintain valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, we evaluate factors such as prior earnings history, 43 expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if we take operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary. In the normal course of business, we are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and are periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We believe our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and we intend to defend our positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, we record reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with U.S. GAAP based on the technical support for the positions, our past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. Our results of operations and effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, we prevail in positions for which reserves have been established, or we are required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves. On December 22, 2017, the 2017 Tax Act was enacted into law and the new legislation contains several key tax provisions that affected us, including a one-time mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings and a reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% effective January 1, 2018, among others. We were required to recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment, such as determining the transition tax, remeasuring our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities and reassessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In December 2017, the SEC staff issued SAB 118 which allowed us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. We updated our accounting for the initial impact of the 2017 Tax Act in 2018 in accordance with the guidance in SAB 118. Refer to Note 12 within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Valuation of Intangible Assets, Including IPR&D We record acquired intangible assets at fair value in business combinations and at cost in asset acquisitions. Valuations are generally completed for intangible assets acquired in business acquisitions using a discounted cash flow analysis, incorporating the stage of completion and consideration of market participant assumptions. The most significant estimates and assumptions inherent in a discounted cash flow analysis include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, and the competitive and other trends impacting the asset, including consideration of technical, legal, regulatory, economic and other factors. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. Acquired in-process R&D (IPR&D) is the value assigned to acquired technology or products under development which have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use. IPR&D acquired in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Upon receipt of regulatory approval of the related technology or product, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. If the R&D project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is charged to expense. IPR&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately. For such transactions, payments made to third parties on or after regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset. Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with R&D projects, there is no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from the underlying assumptions used to prepare discounted cash flow analyses, nor that the R&D project will result in a successful commercial product. Due to a change in the timing and amount of projected cash flows associated with $140 million of acquired in-process R&D intangible assets from a historical acquisition, we updated the estimated fair values of these assets in 2020. While no impairment has been recorded because the estimated fair values of those assets exceeded their carrying values, the estimated excess of fair value over carrying value of these assets declined in 2020 and are at risk of future impairment should the estimated timing or amount of projected cash flows further deteriorate. 44 CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) commenced an inspection of Claris’ facilities in Ahmedabad, India in July 2017, immediately prior to the closing of the Claris acquisition. FDA completed the inspection and subsequently issued a Warning Letter based on observations identified in the 2017 inspection (Claris Warning Letter).¹ FDA has not yet re-inspected the facilities and management cannot speculate on when the Claris Warning Letter will be lifted.  However, we are continuing to implement corrective and preventive actions to address FDA’s prior observations and other items we identified and management continues to pursue and implement other manufacturing locations, including contract manufacturing organizations, to support the production of new products for distribution in the U.S. As of December 31, 2020 , we have secured alternative locations to produce a majority of the planned new products  to be manufactured in Ahmedabad for distribution into the U.S. On May 6, 2019, we received a Show Cause Notice under the Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Rules thereunder (Show Cause Notice) from the Commissioner of the Food & Drugs Control Administration in the Gujarat State in Gandhinagar, India (Commissioner). The Show Cause Notice was issued regarding an April 9, 2019 inspection of our Claris facilities in Ahmedabad, India by the Commissioner. The Show Cause Notice contained a number of observations of alleged Good Manufacturing Practice related issues across a variety of areas, some of which overlap with the areas covered in the Claris Warning Letter. We responded to the Show Cause Notice and a follow up inspection occurred in July 2019. This matter resulted in a two-day suspension order for certain manufacturing operations, which occurred on March 19 and 20, 2020. This matter is now closed. Refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters and how they may impact us. 1 Available online at https://www.fda.gov/ICECI/EnforcementActions/WarningLetters/ucm613538.htm FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION This annual report includes forward-looking statements. Use of the words “may,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “should,” “believes,” “estimates,” “projects,” “potential,” “expects,” “plans,” “seeks,” “intends,” “evaluates,” “pursues,” “anticipates,” “continues,” “designs,” “impacts,” “affects,” “forecasts,” “target,” “outlook,” “initiative,” “objective,” “designed,” “priorities,” “goal,” or the negative of those words or other similar expressions is intended to identify forward-looking statements that represent our current judgment about possible future events. These forward-looking statements may include statements with respect to accounting estimates and assumptions, impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, litigation-related matters including outcomes, impacts of the internal investigation related to foreign exchange gains and losses, future regulatory filings and our R&D pipeline, strategic objectives, sales from new product offerings, credit exposure to foreign governments, potential developments with respect to credit ratings, investment of foreign earnings, estimates of liabilities including those related to uncertain tax positions, contingent payments, future pension plan contributions, costs, discount rates and rates of return, our exposure to financial market volatility and foreign currency and interest rate risks, potential tax liabilities associated with the separation of our biopharmaceuticals business from our medical products businesses, the impact of competition, future sales growth, business development activities (including the acquisitions of Cheetah and Seprafil m and the proposed acquisitions of Caelyx and Doxil and Transderm Scop), business optimization initiatives, cost saving initiatives, future capital and R&D expenditures, future debt issuances, manufacturing expansion, the sufficiency of our facilities and fina ncial flexibility, the adequacy of credit facilities, tax provisions and reserves, the effective tax rate and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts. These forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions and analyses made in light of our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, and expected future developments as well as other factors that we believe are appropriate in the circumstances. While these statements represent our judgment on what the future may hold, and we believe these judgments are reasonable, these statements are not guarantees of any events or financial results. Whether actual future results and developments will conform to expectations and predictions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following factors, many of which are beyond our control: 45 46 Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements.