********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Described below are certain risks we believe apply to our business and the industry in which we operate. The risks are categorized using the following headings: external, strategic, operational, regulatory and legal, and financial and market. Each of the following risk factors should carefully be considered in conjunction with other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other public disclosures. The risks described below highlight potential events, trends or other circumstances that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or access to sources of financing and, consequently, the market value of our common stock and debt instruments. These risks could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results and from guidance we may provide regarding our expectations of future financial performance. The risks described below are not an exhaustive list of all the risks we face. There may be others that we have not identified or that we have deemed to be immaterial. All forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf are qualified by the risks described below. External Risks The COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our business, operations and financial condition to a number of risks, and those risks may intensify or last for an extended period of time. Risks Related to Sales and Customer Demand : At various times during fiscal 2021, the pandemic and the operational changes we have made have resulted in significant reductions in customer visits to, and spending at, our stores. The extent to which the pandemic continues to impact our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict or assess, including the duration of the pandemic; the extent of the impact on global and regional economies and economic activity, including the duration and magnitude of its impact on unemployment rates, consumer discretionary spending and consumer confidence; actions governments take, including governments’ positions towards monetary and/or fiscal policy, including potential stimulus or the timing and nature of loosening of restrictions imposed in response to the pandemic and its resurgence; actions businesses and individuals take in their ongoing responses to the pandemic; and our ability to successfully navigate those impacts. COVID-19 has caused consumers to allocate a higher share of wallet to consumer electronics. After the pandemic, consumers might shift their spending back towards categories or industries that were affected by the pandemic and away from consumer electronic categories. In addition, the pandemic has caused some products and services to be in high demand, and we may not be able to meet this demand in all of our categories due to product shortages or decisions by our vendors to allocate products to certain customers due to the circumstances resulting from the pandemic, and our vendors may increase prices, each of which may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. The pandemic has, and may continue to, negatively impact our products and services that historically have been more likely to be purchased in a physical store than online. Risks Related to Operations : The pandemic has forced us to make a number of operational changes. Although we continue to offer a contactless, curbside model for those who prefer to shop that way, we could be required to return to a curbside-only model or close stores due to the current or future resurgence of the pandemic. Our ability to continue to sell our products and services is highly dependent on our ability to maintain the safety of our customers and those employees who are needed to work at our stores and distribution facilities. Failure to maintain the recommended or required safety standards as defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and local governments could also result in an increased risk of regulatory action or civil litigation. The ability of our employees to work may be significantly impacted by individuals contracting or being exposed to COVID-19. While we are following the requirements of governmental authorities and taking preventative and protective measures to prioritize the safety of our customers and employees, these measures may not be successful, and we may be required to temporarily close distribution centers or stores from time to time, halt certain services or take other measures. Also, if we do not respond appropriately to the pandemic, or if customers do not perceive our response to be adequate for a particular region or our company as a whole, we could suffer damage to our reputation and our brand, which could adversely affect our business in the future. Additionally, while we have continued to prioritize the health and safety of our employees and customers as we continue to operate during the pandemic, we face an increased risk of litigation related to our operating environments. Preparing for and responding to the continuing pandemic could divert management’s attention from our key strategic priorities; increase costs as we prioritize health and safety matters for our employees and customers; cause us to reduce, delay, alter or abandon initiatives that may otherwise increase our long-term value; or otherwise disrupt our business operations. Risks Related to Profitability : To the extent COVID-19 continues to cause fundamental shifts in the channels in which customers choose to engage us, our profitability and our profitability rate may be adversely impacted. For example, at various times in fiscal 2021, we continued to pay rent for a number of physical stores that were closed and not generating sales (and we may need to do so again in the future), our online mix of products and services generally produces lower gross profit rates than in-store sales, and we offer some products and services that historically are more likely to be purchased in a physical store than online. We also do not offer or have limited digital and online offerings for certain products and services that have higher profitability rates. To the extent we are not able to maintain or increase the level of customer traffic in our stores or maintain or enable a more profitable mix of sales in our digital and online channels, our profitability and profitability rates may be materially negatively impacted. We have also incurred additional costs due to the operational changes we have made in response to the pandemic, and these costs have adversely impacted our profitability. As a result of disruptions to our supply chain, primarily due to mandatory shutdowns in locations where our products are manufactured, we are experiencing, and may continue to experience, increased costs for shipping and transportation resources. If we are unable to manage these costs and supply chain disruptions, our profitability may be adversely impacted. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, we could experience a longer-term impact on our costs, for example, the need for enhanced health and hygiene requirements in one or more regions in attempts to counteract future outbreaks. In the event of decreased store traffic, certain of our stores may not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, which could adversely affect the value of our owned and leased properties, potentially requiring us to record more significant non-cash impairment charges in future periods. 8 Risks Related to Our Debt and Global Financing Markets : Although we repaid in full the amounts we had borrowed under our revolving credit facility during fiscal 2021, we may find it necessary to increase our cash position and our short-term debt in the future in response to further resurgences of COVID-19. In the event we are required to raise capital, our access to and cost of financing will depend on, among other things, global economic conditions, conditions in the global financing markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our prospects, our credit ratings, and our business and industry outlook. There is no guarantee that debt or equity financings will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or will be available on terms consistent with our expectations. COVID-19, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, as well as reactions to future pandemics or resurgences of COVID-19, could also precipitate or aggravate the other risk factors that we have identified in this section, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) and/or stock price. Further, COVID-19 may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations . Macroeconomic pressures in the markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, the effects of COVID-19, may adversely affect consumer spending and our financial results. To varying degrees, our products and services are sensitive to changes in macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending. As a result, consumers may be affected in many different ways, including, for example: • whether or not they make a purchase; • their choice of brand, model or price-point; • how frequently they upgrade or replace their devices; and • their appetite for complementary services (for example, protection plans). Real GDP growth, consumer confidence, the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, employment levels, oil prices, interest rates, tax rates, availability of consumer financing, housing market conditions, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, costs for items such as fuel and food and other macroeconomic trends can adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services that we offer. Geopolitical issues around the world and how our markets are positioned can also impact macroeconomic conditions and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Future outbreaks, epidemics and/or pandemics could adversely impact our operating results. The risk of or actual occurrence of national, international or global outbreaks, epidemics, and/or pandemics, could have a material adverse impact on our business, including but not limited to, our sales and customer demand, operations and supply chain, financial results, capital financing or other financing activities and all other stated risks identified in these risk factors. Catastrophic events could adversely affect our operating results. The risk or actual occurrence of various catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. Such events may be caused by, for example: • natural disasters or extreme weather events; • diseases or pandemics (including COVID-19) that have affected and may continue to affect our employees, customers or partners; • floods, fires or other catastrophes affecting our properties, employees or customers; or • terrorism, civil unrest, mass violence or violent acts, or other conflicts. In recent years, we have observed an increase in the number and severity of certain catastrophic events in many of our markets. Such events can adversely affect our work force and prevent employees and customers from reaching our stores and properties and can disrupt or disable portions of our supply chain and distribution network. They can also affect our information technology systems, resulting in disruption to various aspects of our operations, including our ability to transact with customers and fulfill orders. Further, external social activism, tension and violence resulting from external events impacting social justice and inequality, and our position and response to them, may adversely affect our employees, customers, properties and the communities in which we operate. As a consequence of these or other catastrophic events, we may endure interruption to our operations or losses of property, equipment or inventory, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Many of the products we sell are highly susceptible to technological advancement, product life cycle fluctuations and changes in consumer preferences. We operate in a highly and increasingly dynamic industry sector fueled by constant technology innovation and disruption. This manifests itself in a variety of ways: the emergence of new products and categories, rapid maturation of categories, cannibalization of categories, declining price points and product replacement and upgrade cycles. 9 This rapid pace of change can be hard to predict and manage, and there is no guarantee we can effectively do this all the time. If we fail to interpret, predict and react to these changes in a timely and effective manner, the consequences can include: failure to offer the products and services that our customers want; excess inventory, which may require heavy discounting or liquidation; inability to secure adequate access to brands or products for which consumer demand exceeds supply; delays in adapting our merchandising, marketing or supply chain capabilities to accommodate changes in product trends; and damage to our brand and reputation. In addition, consumer preferences may be influenced even further as the social and economic environment navigates through the COVID-19 pandemic. These and other similar factors could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Strategic Risks We face strong competition from multi-channel retailers, e-commerce businesses, technology service providers, traditional store-based retailers, vendors and mobile network carriers, which directly affects our revenue and profitability. While we constantly strive to offer consumers the best value, the retail sector is highly competitive. Price is of great importance to most customers and price transparency and comparability continues to increase, particularly as a result of digital technology. The ability of consumers to compare prices on a real-time basis puts additional pressure on us to maintain competitive prices. We compete with many other local, regional, national and international retailers and technology service providers, as well as some of our vendors and mobile network carriers that market their products directly to consumers. Competition may also result from new entrants into the markets we serve, offering products and/or services that compete with us. The retail sector has experienced an immense increase in sales initiated online and using mobile applications, as well as online sales for both in-store or curbside pick-up. Online and multi-channel retailers continue to focus on delivery services, with customers increasingly seeking faster, guaranteed delivery times and low-cost or free shipping. Our ability to be competitive on delivery times and delivery costs depends on many factors, and our failure to successfully manage these factors and offer competitive delivery options could negatively impact the demand for our products and our profit margins. Because our business strategy is based on offering superior levels of customer service and a full range of services to complement the products we offer, our cost structure might be higher than some of our competitors, and this, in conjunction with price transparency, could put pressure on our margins. As these and related competitive factors evolve, we may experience material adverse pressure on our revenue and profitability. If we fail to attract, retain and engage appropriately qualified employees, including employees in key positions, our operations and profitability may be harmed. In addition, changes in market compensation rates may adversely affect our profitability. Our performance is highly dependent on attracting, retaining and engaging appropriately qualified employees in our stores, service centers, distribution centers, field and corporate offices. Our strategy of offering high-quality services and assistance for our customers requires a highly trained and engaged workforce. The turnover rate in the retail sector is relatively high and there is an ongoing need to recruit and train new employees. Factors that affect our ability to maintain sufficient numbers of qualified employees include, for example, employee engagement, our reputation, unemployment rates, competition from other employers, availability of qualified personnel and our ability to offer appropriate compensation and benefit packages. Failure to recruit or retain qualified employees in the future may impair our efficiency and effectiveness and our ability to pursue growth opportunities. In addition, a significant amount of turnover of our executive team or other employees in key positions with specific knowledge relating to us, our operations and our industry may negatively impact our operations. We operate in a competitive labor market and there is a risk that market increases in compensation and employer-provided benefits could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Our increase in the starting hourly wage for all domestic employees implemented in fiscal 2021, as well as continued market pressure to increase employee hourly wage rates, increased cost pressure on employer-provided benefits. Our ability to implement corresponding adjustments within our labor model and compensation and benefit packages could have a material adverse impact to the profitability of our business. Our strategy to expand into new products, services and technologies brings new business, financial and regulatory risks. As we introduce new products and services, using new technologies and applications, we may have limited experience in these newer markets and regulatory environments and our customers may not like our new value propositions. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions, failures or other issues. For example, as our value proposition evolves to support the healthcare industry with technology, we are subject to privacy and information security rules, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and/or subject to increased potential liability risk. This expanded risk increases the complexity of our business and places significant responsibility on our management, employees, operations, systems, technical expertise, financial resources, and internal financial and regulatory control and reporting functions. In addition, new initiatives we test through trials and pilots may not scale or grow effectively or as we expected, which could limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. They may also involve significant laws or regulations that are beyond our current expertise. In fiscal 2021 we continued to invest in our health strategy and our underlying purpose to enrich lives through technology. The new health-related services offered might expose us to liability risk resulting from failures in the fulfillment of these services. In addition, the services and systems used could expose us to customer data privacy and information security risks, as well as business or system interruption risks. These and other related issues could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 10 Our focus on services as a strategic priority exposes us to certain risks that could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability as well as our reputation. We offer a full range of services that complement our product offerings, including consultation, delivery, design, installation, memberships, protection plans, repair, set-up, technical support, and health, safety and caregiving monitoring and support. Designing, marketing and executing these services is subject to incremental risks. These risks include, for example: • pressure on services attachment as a result of the sustained increase in consumer desire to purchase product offerings online and through mobile applications; • increased labor expense to fulfill our customer promises; • pressure on traditional labor models to meet the evolving landscape of offerings and customer needs; • increased risk of errors or omissions in the fulfillment of services; • unpredictable extended warranty failure rates and related expenses; • employees in transit using company vehicles to visit customer locations and employees being present in customer homes, which may increase our scope of liability; • the potential for increased scope of liability relating to managed services offerings; • employees having access to customer devices, including the information held on those devices, which may increase our responsibility for the security of those devices and the privacy of the data they hold; • the engagement of third parties to assist with some aspects of construction and installation, and the potential responsibility for the actions they undertake; • the risk that in-home services could be more adversely impacted by inclement weather, health and safety concerns, and catastrophic events; and • increased risk of non-compliance with new laws and regulations applicable to these services. Our reliance on key vendors and mobile network carriers subjects us to various risks and uncertainties which could affect our revenue and profitability. We source the products we sell from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors. In fiscal 2021 our 20 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 80% of the merchandise we purchased, with five suppliers - Apple, Samsung, Hewlett-Packard, LG and Sony - representing approximately 57% of total merchandise purchased. We generally do not have long-term written contracts with our vendors that would require them to continue supplying us with merchandise. Our profitability depends on our securing acceptable terms with our vendors for, among other things, the price of merchandise we purchase from them, funding for various forms of promotional programs, payment terms, allocations of merchandise, development of compelling assortments of products, operation of vendor-focused shopping experiences within our stores and terms covering returns and factory warranties. While we believe we offer capabilities that these vendors value and depend upon to varying degrees, our vendors may be able to leverage their competitive advantages - for example, their financial strength, the strength of their brands with customers, their own stores or online channels or their relationships with other retailers - to our commercial disadvantage. The potential adverse impact of these factors can be amplified by price transparency (which can limit our flexibility to modify selling prices) and a highly competitive retail environment. Generally, our ability to negotiate favorable terms with our vendors is more difficult with vendors where our purchases represent a smaller proportion of their total revenues and/or when there is less competition for those products. In addition, vendors may decide to limit or cease allowing us to offer certain categories, focus their marketing efforts on alternative channels or make unfavorable changes to our financial or other terms. We are also dependent on a relatively small number of mobile carriers to allow us to offer mobile devices with carrier connections. The competitive strategies utilized by mobile network carriers can have a material impact on our business, especially with ongoing consolidation in the mobile industry. For example, if carriers change the structure of contracts, upgrade terms, qualification requirements, monthly fee plans, cancellation fees or service levels, the volume of upgrades and new contracts we sign with customers may be reduced, adversely affecting our revenue and profitability. In addition, our carriers may also serve customers through their own stores, websites, mobile applications and call centers or through other competing retail channels. Demand for the products and services we sell could decline if we fail to maintain positive brand perception and recognition through a focus on consumer experience. We operate a portfolio of brands with a commitment to customer service and innovation. We believe that recognition and the reputation of our company and our brands are key to our success. Operational factors, such as failure to deliver high quality services, uncompetitive pricing, failure to meet delivery promises or business interruptions, could damage our reputation. External factors, such as negative public remarks or accusations, could also be damaging. The ubiquity of social media means that customer feedback and other information about our company are shared with a broad audience in a manner that is easily accessible and rapidly disseminated. Damage to the perception or reputation of our brands could result in, among other things, declines in revenues and customer loyalty, decreases in gift card and service plan sales, lower employee retention and productivity and vendor relationship issues, all of which could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. We are subject to risks associated with company transformation. Our transformational activities within the organization are necessary to fully support our strategic vision for future customer and income growth, including our Building the New Blue Strategy, and any decreased capability to undertake those activities may have a material adverse impact on achieving that strategy. 11 Any limitations in organizational, financial or operational infrastructure could decrease our ability to realize transformational objectives supporting our key strategic initiatives relating to our development of competitive advantages, creating solutions for customers and providing differentiated value. If we do not have access to, or fail to dedicate, the appropriate people, management focus and resources to implementing these transformational objectives, our long-term growth and profitability could be adversely affected. The COVID-19 pandemic has further demonstrated the necessity for transformation, and as a result, has increased pressure on the timeline of these activities. The increased pressure to transform quickly and accelerate the implementation of the strategy could have an adverse impact on the overall implementation performance of these objectives and our long-term growth and profitability . As an example, we have seen that our online mix of products and services generally produces lower profit margins than in-store sales. Therefore, the continued transformation to a more digitally-driven business after COVID-19 could put sustained pressure on our costs and profitability. Failure to effectively manage strategic ventures, alliances or acquisitions could have a negative impact on our business. We may decide to enter into new joint ventures, partnerships, alliances or acquisitions with third parties (collectively, "new ventures"). Assessing the viability of new ventures is typically subject to significant uncertainty, and the success of such new ventures can be adversely affected by many factors, including, for example: • different and incremental business risks of the new venture not identified in our diligence assessments; • failure to motivate and retain key employees of the new venture; • uncertainty of forecasting financial performance; • failure to integrate aspects of the new venture into our existing business, such as new product or service offerings or information technology systems; • failure to maintain appropriate internal control over financial reporting; • failure to generate expected synergies, such as cost reductions; • unforeseen changes in the business environment of the new venture; • disputes or strategic differences with other third-party participants in the new venture; and • adverse impacts on relationships with vendors and other key partners of our existing business or the new venture. If new ventures are unsuccessful, our liquidity and profitability could be materially adversely affected, and we may be required to recognize material impairments to goodwill and other assets acquired. New ventures may also divert our financial resources and management's attention from other important areas of our business. Failure to effectively manage our real estate portfolio may negatively impact our operating results. Effective management of our real estate portfolio is critical to our multi-channel strategy. Failure to identify and secure suitable locations for our stores and other facilities could impair our ability to compete successfully and our profitability. Most of our properties are leased, of which some are subject to long-term leases. As such, it is essential that we effectively evaluate a range of factors that may influence the success of our long-term real estate strategy. Such factors include, for example: • changing patterns of customer consumption and behavior, particularly in light of an evolving multi-channel environment; • the location and appropriate number of stores, supply chain and other facilities in our portfolio; • the interior layout, format and size of our stores; • the products and services we offer at each store; • the local competitive positioning, trade area demographics and economic factors for each of our stores; • the primary term lease commitment and long-term lease option coverage for each store; and • the occupancy cost of our stores relative to market rents. If we fail to effectively evaluate these factors or negotiate appropriate terms, or if unforeseen changes arise, the consequences could include, for example: • closing stores and abandoning the related assets, while retaining the financial commitments of the leases; • incurring significant costs to remodel or transform our stores; • operating stores, supply chain or service locations that no longer meet the needs of our business; and • bearing excessive lease expenses. These consequences could have a material adverse impact on our profitability, cash flows and liquidity. For leased property, the financial impact of exiting a location can vary greatly depending on, among other factors, the terms of the lease, the condition of the local real estate market, demand for the specific property, our relationship with the landlord and the availability of potential sub-lease tenants. It is difficult for us to influence some of these factors and the costs of exiting a property can be significant. In addition to rent, we are typically still responsible for taxes, insurance and common area maintenance charges for vacant properties until the lease commitment expires or is terminated. Similarly, when we enter into a contract with a tenant to sub-lease property, we usually retain our obligations as the master lessee. This leaves us at risk for any remaining liability in the event of default by the sub-lease tenant. 12 Operational Risks Interruptions and other factors affecting our supply chain, including in-bound deliveries from our vendors, may adversely affect our business. Our supply chain is a critical part of our operations, particularly in light of industry trends and initiatives, such as ship-from-store and the emphasis on fast delivery when purchasing online. We depend on our vendors' abilities to deliver products to us at the right location, at the right time and in the right quantities. We also depend on third parties for the operation of certain aspects of our supply chain network. The factors that can adversely affect these aspects of our operations include, but are not limited to: • interruptions to our delivery capabilities; • failure of third parties to meet our standards or commitments; • disruptions to our systems and the need to implement new systems; • limitations in capacity; • consolidation or business failures in the transportation and distribution sectors; • labor strikes or slow-downs impacting ports or any other aspect of our supply chain; • diseases, pandemics (including COVID-19), outbreaks and other health-related concerns; • damages or other loss to products; • increasing transportation costs; and • the COVID-19 pandemic and disruptions as a result of efforts to control or mitigate the pandemic (such as facility closures, governmental orders, outbreaks, and/or transportation capacity). It is important that we maintain optimal levels of inventory in each store and distribution center and respond rapidly to shifting demands. Any disruption to, or inefficiency in, our supply chain network could damage our revenue and profitability. The risks associated with our dependence on third parties are greater for small parcel home deliveries because of the relatively small number of carriers with the scope and capacity required by our business. The continuing growth of online purchases for delivery increases our exposure to these risks. If we fail to manage these risks effectively, we could experience a material adverse impact on our reputation, revenue and profitability. We utilize third-party vendors for certain aspects of our operations, and any material disruption in our relationship or their services may have an adverse impact on our business. We engage key third-party business partners to support various functions of our business, including, but not limited to, information technology, web hosting and cloud-based services, human resource operations, customer loyalty programs, promotional financing and customer loyalty credit cards, gift cards, customer warranty, delivery and installation, technical support, transportation and insurance programs. Any material disruption in our relationships with key third-party business partners or any disruption in the services or systems provided or managed by third parties could impact our revenues and cost structure and hinder our operations, particularly if a disruption occurs during peak revenue periods. Our exclusive brands products are subject to several additional product, supply chain and legal risks that could affect our operating results. Sales of our exclusive brands products, which include Best Buy Essentials, Dynex, Insignia, Modal, Platinum and Rocketfish branded products, as well as products such as Jitterbug and Lively branded products, represent an important component of our product offerings and our revenue and profitability. Most of these products are manufactured by contract manufacturers based in southeast Asia. This arrangement exposes us to the following additional potential risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results: • we have greater exposure and responsibility to consumers for warranty replacements and repairs as a result of exclusive brands product defects, and our recourse to contract manufacturers for such warranty liabilities may be limited in foreign jurisdictions; • we may be subject to regulatory compliance and/or product liability claims relating to personal injury, death or property damage caused by exclusive brands products, some of which may require us to take significant actions, such as product recalls; • we have experienced and are likely to continue to experience disruptions in manufacturing and logistics due to COVID-19, and we may experience disruptions in manufacturing or logistics in the future due to inconsistent and unanticipated order patterns, our inability to develop long-term relationships with key manufacturers, other diseases or pandemics or unforeseen natural disasters; • we may not be able to locate manufacturers that meet our internal standards, whether for new exclusive brands products or for migration of the manufacturing of products from an existing manufacturer; • we may be subject to a greater risk of inventory obsolescence as we do not generally have return-to-vendor rights; • we are subject to developing and often-changing labor and environmental laws for the manufacturing of products in foreign countries, and we may be unable to conform to new rules or interpretations in a timely manner; • we may be subject to claims by technology or other intellectual property owners if we inadvertently infringe upon their patents or other intellectual property rights, or if we fail to pay royalties owed on our exclusive brands products; • our operations may be disrupted by trade disputes or excessive tariffs, including any future trade disputes or future phases of trade negotiations with China, and we may not be able to source alternatives quickly enough to avoid interruptions in product supply; • we may be unable to obtain or adequately protect patents and other intellectual property rights on our exclusive brands products or manufacturing processes; and • regulations regarding disclosure of efforts to identify the country of origin of “conflict minerals” in certain portions of our supply chain could increase the cost of doing business and, depending on the findings of our country-of-origin inquiry, could have an adverse effect on our reputation. 13 Maintaining consistent quality, availability and competitive pricing of our exclusive brands products helps us build and maintain customer loyalty, generate revenue and achieve acceptable margins. Failure to maintain these factors could have a significant adverse impact on the demand for exclusive brands products and the profits we are able to generate from them. We are subject to risks associated with vendors that source products outside of the U.S. Our ability to find qualified vendors who can supply products in a timely and efficient manner that meet our internal standards of quality and safety can be difficult, especially with respect to goods sourced from outside the U.S. Risks such as political or economic instability, cross-border trade restrictions or tariffs, merchandise quality issues, product safety concerns, work stoppages, port delays, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, transportation capacity and costs, inflation, civil unrest, natural disasters, outbreaks of pandemics (including COVID-19) and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. Vendors may also fail to invest adequately in design, production or distribution facilities, and may reduce their customer incentives, advertising and promotional activities or change their pricing policies. These and other related issues could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. We rely heavily on our information technology systems for our key business processes. Any failure or interruption in these systems could have a material adverse impact on our business. The effective and efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems and those of our information technology vendors. We rely heavily on these information technology systems to manage all key aspects of our business, including demand forecasting, purchasing, supply chain management, point-of-sale processing, services fulfillment, staff planning and deployment, financial management, reporting and forecasting and safeguarding critical and sensitive information. Our information technology systems and those of our partners are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks and other malicious actions), catastrophic events (such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes) and usage errors by our employees. The failure or interruption of these information systems, data centers or their backup systems could significantly disrupt our business and cause higher costs and lost revenues and could threaten our ability to remain in operation. We face a heightened risk of cybersecurity attacks or data security incidents and are more dependent on internet and telecommunications access and capabilities. We utilize complex information technology platforms to operate our websites and mobile applications. If we fail to secure these systems against attacks or fail to effectively upgrade and maintain our hardware, software, network and system infrastructure and improve the efficiency and resiliency of our systems, it could cause system interruptions and delays. Disruptions to these services, such as those caused by unforeseen traffic levels, malicious attacks, other technical difficulties or events outside of our control, such as natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures or loss of critical data, could prevent us from accepting and fulfilling customer orders for products or services, which could cause us to forgo material revenues, incur material costs and adversely affect our reputation. Further, as our online sales have increased and have become critical to our growth, and as we have shifted to remote working arrangements for many employees, the risk of any interruption of our information technology system capabilities is heightened, as well as the risk that customer demand exceeds the capacity of our online operations. Any such interruption or capacity constraint could result in a deterioration of our ability to process online sales, provide customer service or perform other necessary business functions. Failure to prevent or effectively respond to a breach of the privacy or security of our customer, employee, vendor or company information could expose us to substantial costs and reputational damage, as well as litigation and enforcement actions. Our business involves the collection, use and storage of personal information, including payment card information, as well as confidential information regarding our employees, vendors and other company information. We also share personal and confidential information with suppliers and other third parties, as well as use third-party technology and systems which transmit information for a variety of activities. We have been the target of attempted cyber-attacks and other security threats, and we may be subject to breaches of our information technology systems. While we engage in significant data-protection efforts, criminal activity, such as cyber-attacks, lapses in our controls or the intentional or negligent actions of employees, business associates or third parties, may undermine our privacy and security measures, and, as a result, unauthorized parties may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate employee, customer and other confidential data, or authorized parties may use or share personal information in an inappropriate manner. Furthermore, because the methods used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and may not be immediately detected, we may be unable to anticipate such attacks or promptly and effectively respond to them. Any compromise of our customer information or other confidential information could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or our relationships with our customers and partners, which may in turn have a negative impact on our revenue and may expose us to material costs, penalties and claims. Sensitive customer data may also be present on customer-owned devices entrusted to us for service and repair. Vulnerable code on products sold or serviced, including our exclusive brands, may also result in a compromise of customer privacy or security. Our efforts to protect against such compromises and ensure appropriate handling of customer data on devices we manufacture, sell and service may not be effective, resulting in potential liability and damage to our customer relationships. 14 Increasing costs associated with information security and privacy, such as increased investment in technology and qualified staff, costs of compliance, costs resulting from fraud and costs of cyber and privacy insurance, could cause our business and results of operations to suffer materially. Additionally, new laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act , are expanding our obligations to protect the privacy and security of customer data, requiring additional resources and creating incremental risk arising from a potential breach. In addition, any compromise of our data security may materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such breaches and could subject us to additional legal risk. Product safety and quality concerns could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. If the products we sell fail to meet applicable safety standards or our customers' expectations regarding safety and quality, we could be exposed to increased legal risk and our reputation may be damaged. Failure to take appropriate actions in relation to product recalls could lead to breaches of laws and regulations and leave us susceptible to government enforcement actions or private litigation. Recalls of products, particularly when combined with lack of available alternatives or difficulty in sourcing sufficient volumes of replacement products, could also have a material adverse impact on our revenue and profitability. Changes to labor or employment laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our costs and impair the viability of our operating model. As an employer of approximately 102,000 people in a large number of different jurisdictions, we are subject to risks related to employment laws and regulations including, for example: • the organization of unions and related regulations that affect the nature of labor relations, changes to which the National Labor Relations Board frequently considers; • laws that impact the relationship between the company and independent contractors; and • laws that impact minimum wage, sick time, paid leave and scheduling requirements that could directly or indirectly increase our payroll costs and/or impact the level of service we are able to provide. Changes to laws and regulations such as these could adversely impact our reputation, our ability to continue operations and our profitability. Regulatory and Legal Risks We are subject to statutory, regulatory and legal developments which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our statutory, regulatory and legal environments expose us to complex compliance and litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Some of the most significant compliance and litigation risks we face include, but are not limited to: • the difficulty of complying with sometimes conflicting statutes and regulations in local, national or international jurisdictions; • the potential for unexpected costs related to compliance with new or existing environmental legislation or international agreements affecting energy, carbon emissions, electronics recycling and water or product materials; • the challenges of ensuring compliance with applicable product compliance laws and regulations with respect to both the products we sell and contract to manufacture, including laws and regulations related to product safety and product transport; • the financial, operational and business impact of new regulations governing data privacy and security; • the impact of other new or changing statutes and regulations, including, but not limited to, financial reform; National Labor Relations Board rule changes; healthcare reform; contracted worker labor laws; corporate governance matters; escheatment rules; rules governing pricing, content, distribution, copyright, mobile communications, electronic device certification or payment services; and/or other as yet unknown legislation that could affect how we operate and execute our strategies as well as alter our expense structure; • the impact of litigation trends, including class-action lawsuits involving consumers and shareholders, and labor and employment matters; and • the impact of the transition in presidential administrations and changes in the federal executive and legislative branches on the development, or changes in, laws, regulations and policies, such as economic, fiscal, tax, retail, labor and social policies. The impact of the potential implementation of more restrictive trade policies, higher tariffs or the renegotiation of existing trade agreements in the U.S. or countries where we sell our products and services or procure products could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, future trade disputes or future phases of trade negotiations with China could lead to the imposition of tariffs or other trade actions that could adversely affect our supply chain and our business and could require us to take action to mitigate those effects, as we did in fiscal 2020. Further, the impact of potential changes in U.S. or other countries' tax laws and regulations or evolving interpretations of existing laws, including additional guidance and legislation related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (“CARES”) Act, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory activity that affects the retail sector has grown in recent years, increasing the risk of fines and additional operating costs associated with compliance. Additionally, defending against lawsuits and other proceedings may involve significant expense and divert management's attention and resources from other matters . 15 Further, as the COVID-19 pandemic and community spread of the virus continues to persist, we will continue to face risk and uncertainty as it relates to state and local government orders, which may restrict how we do business and potentially impact our performance and profitability. Our international activities are subject to many of the same risks as described above, as well as to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, regulatory, political, economic and cultural factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate. We operate retail locations in Canada, and during the third quarter of fiscal 2021, we made the decision to exit our operations in Mexico . In addition, most of our exclusive brands products are manufactured by contract manufacturers based in southeast Asia. We also have wholly owned legal entities registered in various other foreign countries, including Barbados, Bermuda, China, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, the Republic of Mauritius and the U.K. During fiscal 2021 our International segment's operations generated 8% of our revenue. In general, the risk factors identified above also have relevance to our International operations. In addition, our International operations also expose us to other risks, including those related to, for example: • political conditions and geopolitical events, including war and terrorism; • economic conditions, including monetary and fiscal policies and tax rules, as well as foreign exchange rate risk; • rules governing international trade and potential changes to trade policies or trade agreements and ownership of foreign entities; • government-imposed travel restrictions or warnings, whether in response to the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, and differing responses of governmental authorities to pandemics and other global events; • cultural differences that we may be unable to anticipate or respond to appropriately; • different rules or practices regarding employee relations, including the existence of works councils or unions; • difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights; • difficulties encountered in exerting appropriate management oversight to operations in remote locations; and • risks we may encounter in exiting our operations in Mexico. These factors could significantly disrupt our International operations and have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability and could lead us to incur material impairments and other exit costs. Financial and Market Risks Failure to effectively manage our costs could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. As discussed above, our revenues are susceptible to volatility from various sources which can lead to periods of flat or declining revenues. However, some of our operating costs are fixed and/or are subject to multi-year contracts. Some elements of our costs may be higher than our competitors' because of, for example, our extended retail footprint and structure, our hourly pay structure, our differentiated service offerings or our levels of customer service. Accordingly, our ongoing drive to reduce costs and increase efficiency represents a strategic imperative. Failure to successfully manage our costs could have a material adverse impact on our profitability and curtail our ability to fund our growth or other critical initiatives. We are highly dependent on the cash flows and net earnings we generate during our fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season. A large proportion of our revenue and earnings is generated in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season. In addition, the holiday shopping season also incorporates many other unpredictable factors, such as the level of competitive promotional activity, new product release activity and customer buying patterns, which makes it difficult to forecast and react to these factors quickly. Unexpected events or developments, such as natural or man-made disasters, changes in consumer demand, economic factors, product sourcing issues, cyber-attacks, failure or interruption of management information systems or disruptions in services or systems provided or managed by third-party vendors could significantly disrupt our operations. In addition, during fiscal 2021, we extended the holiday shopping season starting in mid-October, while closing stores on Thanksgiving Day. These changes could bring additional unknown risks related to the sales performance of the holiday shopping season. As a result of these factors, there is risk that our fiscal fourth quarter and annual results could be adversely affected. Economic, regulatory and other developments could adversely affect our ability to offer attractive promotional financing to our customers and adversely affect the profits we generate from these programs. We offer promotional financing and credit cards issued by third-party banks that manage and directly extend credit to our customers. Customers choosing promotional financing can receive extended payment terms and low- or no-interest financing on qualifying purchases. We believe our financing programs generate incremental revenue from customers who prefer the financing terms to other available forms of payment or otherwise need access to financing in order to make purchases. Approximately 25% of our fiscal 2021 revenue was transacted using one of the company's branded cards. In addition, we earn profit-share income and share in any losses from certain of our banking partners based on the performance of the programs. The income or loss we earn in this regard is subject to numerous factors, including the volume and value of transactions, the terms of promotional financing offers, bad debt rates, interest rates, the regulatory and competitive environment and expenses of operating the program. Adverse changes to any of these factors could impair our ability to offer these programs to customers and reduce customer purchases and our ability to earn income from sharing in the profits of the programs. 16 In addition, we may experience pressure from lower profit-sharing revenue related to our private label and co-branded credit card arrangements, as the economic ramifications of COVID-19 may lead to higher credit card defaults over time, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability. Constraints in the capital markets or our vendor credit terms may have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. We need sufficient sources of liquidity to fund our working capital requirements, service our outstanding indebtedness and finance business opportunities. Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations or we may not be able to pursue business opportunities. The principal sources of our liquidity are funds generated from operating activities, available cash and liquid investments, credit facilities, other debt arrangements and trade payables. Our liquidity could be materially adversely impacted if our vendors reduce payment terms and/or impose tighter credit limits. If our sources of liquidity do not satisfy our requirements, we may need to seek additional financing. The future availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as economic and market conditions, the regulatory environment for banks and other financial institutions, the availability of credit, our credit ratings and our reputation with potential lenders. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our costs of borrowing and our ability to pursue business opportunities, and threaten our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. Changes in our credit ratings may limit our access to capital and materially increase our borrowing costs. Any future downgrades to our credit ratings and outlook could negatively impact the perception of our credit risk and thus our access to capital markets, borrowing costs, vendor terms and lease terms. Our credit ratings are based upon information furnished by us or obtained by a rating agency from its own sources and are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time. Rating agencies may change the ratings assigned to us due to developments that are beyond our control, including the introduction of new rating practices and methodologies. Failure to meet any financial performance guidance or other forward-looking statements we may provide to the public could result in a decline in our stock price. We may provide public guidance on our expected financial results or other forward-looking information for future periods. When we provide guidance, we believe that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management's expectations for the future and is useful to our existing and potential shareholders, but such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Our actual results may not be in line with guidance we have provided. We may not be able to accurately forecast our growth rate and profit margins. We base our expense levels and investment plans on sales estimates. A significant portion of our expenses and investments are fixed, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our sales are less than expected. Our revenue growth may not be sustainable and our percentage growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and operating profit growth depend on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us, and our business is affected by general economic and business conditions worldwide. If our financial results for a particular period do not meet any guidance we provide or the expectations of market participants, or if we reduce any guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock may decline.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of our management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect our future results. Unless otherwise noted, transactions and other factors significantly impacting our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are discussed in order of magnitude. Our MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 23 Overview Our purpose is to enrich lives through technology. We have two reportable segments: Domestic and International. The Domestic segment is comprised of the operations, including our Best Buy Health business, in all states, districts and territories of the U.S. under various brand names including Best Buy, Best Buy Business, Best Buy Express, Best Buy Health, CST, Geek Squad, GreatCall, Lively, Magnolia and Pacific Kitchen and Home and the domain names bestbuy.com and greatcall.com. The International segment is comprised of all operations in Canada and Mexico under the brand names Best Buy, Best Buy Express, Best Buy Mobile and Geek Squad and the domain names bestbuy.ca and bestbuy.com.mx. During the third quarter of fiscal 2021 we made the decision to exit our operations in Mexico. Refer to Note 2, Restructuring , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest the end of January. Fiscal 2021, fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019 included 52 weeks. Our business, like that of many retailers, is seasonal. A large proportion of our revenue and earnings is generated in the fiscal fourth quarter, which includes the majority of the holiday shopping season in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. Comparable Sales Throughout this MD&A, we refer to comparable sales. Comparable sales is a metric used by management to evaluate the performance of our existing stores, websites and call centers by measuring the change in net sales for a particular period over the comparable prior-period of equivalent length. Comparable sales includes revenue from stores, websites and call centers operating for at least 14 full months. Stores closed more than 14 days, including but not limited to relocated, remodeled, expanded and downsized stores, or stores impacted by natural disasters, are excluded from comparable sales until at least 14 full months after reopening. Acquisitions are included in comparable sales beginning with the first full quarter following the first anniversary of the date of the acquisition. Comparable sales also includes credit card revenue, gift card breakage, commercial sales and sales of merchandise to wholesalers and dealers, as applicable. Comparable sales excludes the impact of revenue from discontinued operations and the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates (applicable to our International segment only). Online sales are included in comparable sales. Online sales represent those initiated on a website or app, regardless of whether customers choose to pick up product in store, curbside, at an alternative pick-up location or take delivery direct to their homes. All periods presented apply this methodology consistently. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of novel coronavirus disease (“COVID-19”) as a pandemic. All stores that were temporarily closed as a result of COVID-19 or operating a curbside-only operating model are included in comparable sales. On November 24, 2020, we announced our decision to exit our operations in Mexico. As a result, all revenue from Mexico operations has been excluded from our comparable sales calculation beginning in December of fiscal 2021. On March 1, 2018, we announced our intent to close all of our 257 remaining Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores in the U.S. As a result, all revenue related to these stores has been excluded from our comparable sales calculation beginning in March 2018. On October 1, 2018, we acquired all outstanding shares of GreatCall, Inc. (“GreatCall”) and on May 9, 2019, we acquired all outstanding shares of Critical Signal Technologies, Inc. (“CST”) . Consistent with our comparable sales policy, the results of GreatCall are included in our comparable sales calculation beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, and the results of CST are included in our comparable sales calculation beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2021. We believe comparable sales is a meaningful supplemental metric for investors to evaluate revenue performance resulting from growth in existing stores, websites and call centers versus the portion resulting from opening new stores or closing existing stores. The method of calculating comparable sales varies across the retail industry. As a result, our method of calculating comparable sales may not be the same as other retailers' methods. Non-GAAP Financial Measures This MD&A includes financial information prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), as well as certain adjusted or non-GAAP financial measures, such as constant currency, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP effective tax rate and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share ("EPS"). We believe that non-GAAP financial measures, when reviewed in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, can provide more information to assist investors in evaluating current period performance and in assessing future performance. For these reasons, our internal management reporting also includes non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, our non-GAAP financial measures include adjustments for items such as restructuring charges, goodwill impairments, price-fixing settlements, gains and losses on investments, intangible asset amortization, certain acquisition-related costs and the tax effect of all such items. In addition, certain other items may be excluded from non-GAAP financial measures when we believe doing so provides greater clarity to management and our investors. These non-GAAP financial measures should be considered in addition to, and not superior to or as a substitute for, GAAP financial measures. We strongly encourage investors and shareholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. Non-GAAP financial measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 24 In our discussions of the operating results of our consolidated business and our International segment, we sometimes refer to the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which are references to the differences between the foreign currency exchange rates we use to convert the International segment’s operating results from local currencies into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes. We also may use the term "constant currency," which represents results adjusted to exclude foreign currency impacts. We calculate those impacts as the difference between the current period results translated using the current period currency exchange rates and using the comparable prior period currency exchange rates. We believe the disclosure of revenue changes in constant currency provides useful supplementary information to investors in light of significant fluctuations in currency rates. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below for detailed reconciliations of items impacting non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP effective tax rate and non-GAAP diluted EPS in the presented periods. Business Strategy and COVID-19 Update In fiscal 2021 our Enterprise comparable sales grew 9.7% as we leveraged our unique capabilities, including our supply chain expertise, flexible store operating model and ability to shift quickly to digital, to meet what was clearly elevated demand for products that help customers work, learn, cook, entertain and connect in their homes. We provided customers with multiple options for how, when and where they shopped with us to ensure it satisfied their need for safety and convenience. The pandemic environment underscored our purpose to enrich lives through technology, and the capabilities we strengthened in fiscal 2021 will benefit us going forward as we execute our strategy. Our strong financial performance allowed us to share our success with the community, our shareholders, and, importantly, our employees. In the third quarter of fiscal 2021, we made a $40 million donation to the Best Buy Foundation to accelerate the progress towards our goal to reach 100 Teen Tech Centers across the U.S. We believe our Teen Tech Centers help to further our commitments towards economic and social justice in our communities by making a measurable difference in the lives of underserved teens who may not otherwise have access to technology. In addition, we resumed our share repurchase program during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and increased our quarterly dividend by 27% to $0.70 per share. For our employees, we provided hourly appreciation pay for those who were working on the frontlines, paid recognition bonuses to field employees and established multiple hardship funds for anyone impacted physically, emotionally or financially by COVID-19. Starting August 1, 2020, we also raised our starting wage to $15 per hour for all domestic employees and enhanced our employee benefits. Throughout the pandemic and across all the ways customers can shop, we adhered to safety protocols that limited store capacity, followed strict social distancing practices and used proper protective equipment, including requiring our employees and customers to wear masks. This COVID-19 pandemic and the shift in customer buying behavior underscores the importance of our strong multi-channel capabilities. In fiscal 2021 our Domestic online revenue grew 144% compared to last year. We believe it is essential to provide options that let customers choose what works best for them. To best serve our customers during the pandemic, we had to be innovative and flexible. Early in the year, we quickly rolled out enhanced curbside pick-up across our stores to provide our customers convenience when we made the difficult decision to close our stores in March 2020. In May 2020 we developed an in-store appointment model that provided our customers with an option to shop in our stores as we prepared to open stores back up to customer shopping. We developed solutions like virtual consultations with advisors and video chats with our store associates. In addition, we made significant improvements to the functionality and customer experience of our app to support shopping, support and fulfillment. We provided fulfillment options that customers have come to expect from all retailers like fast and free home delivery, in-store pick-up and curbside pick-up. As we look forward, the environment is still evolving, and our operating model and supporting cost structure are evolving as well. The pandemic has accelerated the evolution of retail and compelled us to change our operating model in the best interest of our employees and customers. We have also expedited some planned strategic changes that we believe will allow us to emerge from this time even stronger. During the third quarter of fiscal 2021 we made the difficult decision to exit our operations in Mexico and began taking other actions to more broadly align our organizational structure in support of our strategy. As a result, we recorded $144 million of charges in our International segment in fiscal 2021, including $23 million of inventory markdowns within cost of sales and $121 million within restructuring charges primarily comprised of asset impairments, currency translation adjustments and termination benefits. As of January 30, 2021, the exit was substantially complete and we do not expect to incur material future restructuring charges in fiscal 2022 related to the exit. We also recorded $133 million of restructuring charges in our Domestic segment in fiscal 2021, primarily related to termination benefits associated with field and corporate organizational changes in support of our strategy, as well as impairments of technology assets held in service of our Mexico operations. As we continue to evolve our Building the New Blue Strategy, it is possible that we will incur material future restructuring costs, but we are unable to forecast the timing and magnitude of such costs. Refer to Note 2, Restructuring , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 25 We believe the following will be permanent and structural implications of the pandemic relevant to Best Buy: • Customer shopping behavior will be permanently changed in a way that is even more digital and puts customers entirely in control to shop how they want. Our strategy is to embrace that reality, and lead, not follow. • Our workforce will need to evolve in a way that meets the needs of customers while also providing more flexible opportunities for our people. • Technology is playing an even more crucial role in people’s lives, and, as a result, our purpose to enrich lives through technology has never been more important. Said differently, people are using technology to address their needs in ways they never contemplated before, and we play a vital role in bringing technology to life for both customers and our vendor partners. These implications are extensive and interdependent, and we are, as quickly as possible, both implementing change today and assessing future changes across our entire business, including how we evolve our stores and labor model, and how we spend our investment dollars. ‌ In summary, during fiscal 2021 we managed through the challenging environment in a way that allowed us to accelerate many aspects of our strategy to deliver on our purpose. Our teams showed perseverance and commitment through the year and collectively changed the way we do business at a pace we never imagined. Results of Operations In order to align our fiscal reporting periods and comply with statutory filing requirements, we consolidate the financial results of our Mexico operations on a one-month lag. Consistent with such consolidation, the financial and non-financial information presented in our MD&A relative to these operations is also presented on a lag. Our policy is to accelerate the recording of events occurring in the lag period that significantly affect our consolidated financial statements. Other than the restructuring charges incurred related to our decision to exit our operations in Mexico, no such events were identified for the periods presented. Consolidated Results Selected consolidated financial data was as follows ($ in millions, except per share amounts): (1) Because retailers vary in how they record costs of operating their supply chain between cost of sales and SG&A, our gross profit rate and SG&A rate may not be comparable to other retailers' corresponding rates. For additional information regarding costs classified in cost of sales and SG&A, refer to Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In fiscal 2021 we generated $47.3 billion in revenue and our comparable sales increased 9.7%. The impact of the pandemic drove strong customer demand for products to help them work, learn, cook, entertain and connect in their homes. Our strong sales performance resulted in operating income rate expansion of 50 basis points compared to fiscal 2020. Revenue, gross profit rate, SG&A rate and operating income rate changes in fiscal 2021 were primarily driven by our Domestic segment. For further discussion of each segment's rate changes, see Segment Performance Summary, below. 26 Segment Performance Summary Domestic Segment Selected financial data for the Domestic segment was as follows ($ in millions): (1) Comparable online sales are included in the comparable sales calculation. The increase in revenue in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by the comparable sales growth across most of our product categories, partially offset by the loss of revenue from permanent store closures in the past year. Online revenue of $18.7 billion increased 144.4% on a comparable basis in fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher conversion rates and increased traffic as we saw a channel shift in our customer shopping behavior as a result of COVID-19. Domestic segment stores open at the end of each of the last three fiscal years, excluding stores that were temporarily closed as a result of COVID-19 in fiscal 2021, were as follows: We continuously monitor store performance. As we approach the expiration date of our leases, we evaluate various options for each location, including whether a store should remain open. Domestic segment revenue mix percentages and comparable sales percentage changes by revenue category were as follows: Continued strong demand in categories that help our customers work, learn, cook, entertain and connect from home contributed to our Domestic comparable sales changes across most of our categories. Notable comparable sales changes by revenue category were as follows: • Computing and Mobile Phones: The 13.0% comparable sales growth was driven primarily by computing, tablets and networking, partially offset by declines in mobile phones. • Consumer Electronics: The 0.2% comparable sales decline was driven primarily by headphones and digital imaging, partially offset by growth in home theater. • Appliances: The 23.2% comparable sales growth was driven by both large and small appliances. • Entertainment: The 17.9% comparable sales growth was driven primarily by gaming and virtual reality, partially offset by declines in movies. • Services: The 1.4% comparable sales decline was primarily driven by our repair, delivery and installation services. 27 Our gross profit rate decreased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to higher supply chain costs as a result of the increased mix of online revenue and lower profit-sharing revenue from our private label and co-branded credit card arrangement , partially offset by a more favorable promotional environment. Our SG&A decreased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to lower store payroll expense and other actions taken at the onset of the pandemic, such as the temporary suspension of the 401(k) employer match, reduced advertising and lower store overhead expenses. These decreases were partially offset by increases in variable costs associated with higher sales volume and a $40 million donation to the Best Buy Foundation. Lower store payroll expense was primarily due to fewer labor hours as a result of reduced store operating hours, lower store-generated revenue and efficiencies in our labor model, which was partially offset by increased wage rates. SG&A also includes $81 million of employee retention credits as a result of the Federal Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act. Restructuring charges in fiscal 2021 related to termination benefits associated with actions taken to more broadly align our organizational structure in support of our strategy. Refer to Note 2, Restructuring, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Our operating income rate increased in fiscal 2021 primarily driven by increased leverage from higher sales volume on our fixed expenses, which resulted in favorable SG&A rates, partially offset by the decrease in gross profit rate and restructuring charges described above. International Segment Selected financial data for the International segment was as follows ($ in millions): The increase in revenue in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by comparable sales growth across most of our product categories, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to our operations in Mexico and Canada, and lower revenue in Mexico as a result of our decision in the third quarter of fiscal 2021 to exit operations. International segment stores open at the end of each of the last three fiscal years, excluding stores that were temporarily closed as a result of COVID-19 in fiscal 2021, were as follows: International segment revenue mix percentages and comparable sales percentage changes by revenue category were as follows: 28 Similar to the Domestic segment, strong demand in categories that help our customers work, learn, cook, entertain and connect from home contributed to our International comparable sales changes across most of our categories. Notable comparable sales changes by revenue category were as follows: • Computing and Mobile Phones : The 23.8% comparable sales growth was driven primarily by computing, tablets and networking, partially offset by declines in mobile phones. • Consumer Electronics: The 0.3% comparable sales growth was driven primarily by home theater and health and fitness, partially offset by declines in smart home and digital imaging. • Appliances: The 20.9% comparable sales growth was driven by both small and large appliances. • Entertainment: The 52.1% comparable sales growth was driven primarily by gaming and virtual reality. • Services: The 11.0% comparable sales decline was driven primarily by warranty and repair services. • Other: The 9.4% comparable sales growth was driven primarily by baby products. Our gross profit rate declined in fiscal 2021 primarily due to operations in Canada, which was largely driven by higher supply chain costs as a result of the increased mix of online revenue and a lower mix of higher margin services revenue. Gross profit also decreased $23 million as a result of inventory markdowns associated with our decision to exit our operations in Mexico. Our SG&A decreased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to operations in Canada as a result of lower store payroll expense, partially offset by higher incentive compensation. Restructuring charges in fiscal 2021 primarily related to asset impairments, currency translation adjustments and termination benefits associated with our decision to exit our operations in Mexico. Refer to Note 2, Restructuring, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Our operating income rate decreased in fiscal 2021 primarily driven by restructuring charges and the lower gross profit rate described above, partially offset by a favorable SG&A rate driven by increased leverage from higher sales volume on our fixed expenses. Additional Consolidated Results Other Income (Expense) Our investment income and other decreased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to less favorable interest rates on our investments, partially offset by an increase in the fair value of a minority equity investment. Interest expense decreased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to more favorable interest rates related to our interest rate swap contracts, partially offset by an increase in interest expense as a result of our short-term draw on our $1.25 billion five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility. Refer to Note 8, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding our revolving credit facility. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense increased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in pre-tax earnings. Our effective tax rate increased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in losses for which tax benefits were not recognized, a decrease in the tax benefit from stock-based compensation and the impact of higher pre-tax earnings on discrete tax benefits, partially offset by an increase in the tax benefit from federal tax credits and the resolution of discrete tax matters. 29 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations of operating income, effective tax rate and diluted EPS (GAAP financial measures) to non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP effective tax rate and non-GAAP diluted EPS (non-GAAP financial measures) were as follows ($ in millions, except per share amounts): For additional information regarding the nature of charges discussed below, refer to Note 2, Restructuring ; Note 3, Acquisitions ; Note 4, Goodwill and Intangible Assets ; Note 6, Derivative Instruments ; and Note 11, Income Taxes , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (1) Represents inventory markdowns recorded within cost of sales associated with the decision to exit operations in Mexico. (2) Represents a price-fixing litigation settlement received in relation to products purchased and sold in prior fiscal years. (3) Represents charges associated with acquisitions, including: (1) the non-cash amortization of definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, tradenames and developed technology; and (2) acquisition-related transaction costs primarily comprised of professional fees. (4) Represents charges associated with actions taken to better align the company’s organizational structure with its strategic focus and the decision to exit operations in Mexico in fiscal 2021, charges and subsequent adjustments associated with U.S. retail operating model changes in fiscal 2020, and charges and subsequent adjustments primarily associated with the closure of Best Buy Mobile stand-alone stores in the U.S. in fiscal 2019. (5) Represents adjustments resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“tax reform”) enacted into law in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, including amounts associated with a deemed repatriation tax and the revaluation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, as well as a one-time bonus for certain employees in response to future tax savings created by tax reform. (6) Represents an increase in the fair value of a minority equity investment in fiscal 2021 and a gain on sale of investments in fiscal 2019. (7) Represents the summation of the calculated income tax charge related to each non-GAAP non-income tax adjustment. The non-GAAP adjustments primarily relate to the U.S. and Mexico. As such, the income tax charge is calculated using the statutory tax rate of 24.5% for all U.S. non-GAAP items for all periods presented. There is no income tax charge for Mexico non-GAAP items, as there was no tax benefit recognized on these expenses in the calculation of GAAP income tax expense. Our non-GAAP operating income rate increased in fiscal 2021 primarily driven by increased leverage from higher sales volume on our fixed expenses, which resulted in a favorable SG&A rate, partially offset by a decrease in gross profit rate. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate increased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to a decrease in the tax benefit from stock-based compensation and the impact of higher pre-tax earnings on discrete tax benefits, partially offset by an increase in the tax benefit from federal tax credits and the resolution of discrete tax matters. Our non-GAAP diluted EPS increased in fiscal 2021 primarily driven by increases in non-GAAP operating income and lower diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding from share repurchases. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources We closely manage our liquidity and capital resources. Our liquidity requirements depend on key variables, including the level of investment required to support our business strategies, the performance of our business, capital expenditures, credit facilities, short-term borrowing arrangements and working capital management. Capital expenditures and share repurchases are a component of our cash flow and capital management strategy which, to a large extent, we can adjust in response to economic and other changes in our business environment. We have a disciplined approach to capital allocation, which focuses on investing in key priorities that support our strategy. Cash and cash equivalents were as follows ($ in millions): The increase in cash and cash equivalents in fiscal 2021 was primarily driven by the increase in operating cash flows and a reduction in share repurchases, which were temporarily suspended from March to November of fiscal 2021. Cash Flows Cash flows from total operations were as follows ($ in millions): Operating Activities The increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to higher inventory turnover and the timing of inventory purchases and payments to meet continued higher demand. The increase was also driven by the timing of payments related to accrued compensation and benefits and higher earnings. Investing Activities The decrease in cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to the absence of acquisitions. Financing Activities The decrease in cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to lower share repurchases, which were temporarily suspended from March to November of fiscal 2021. Sources of Liquidity Funds generated by operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, our credit facilities and other debt arrangements are our most significant sources of liquidity. We believe our sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund operations and anticipated capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends and strategic initiatives, including business combinations. However, in the event our liquidity is insufficient, we may be required to limit our spending. There can be no assurance that we will continue to generate cash flows at or above current levels or that we will be able to maintain our ability to borrow under our existing credit facilities or obtain additional financing, if necessary, on favorable terms. We have a $1.25 billion five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Facility”) with a syndicate of banks. Refer to Note 8, Debt, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on the terms of the Facility. In light of the uncertainty surrounding the impact of COVID-19 and to maximize liquidity, we executed a short-term draw on the full amount of the Facility on March 19, 2020, which remained outstanding until July 27, 2020, when the amounts we had borrowed under the Facility were repaid in full. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Facility as of January 30, 2021, or February 1, 2020. Our ability to continue to access the Facility is subject to our compliance with its terms and conditions, including financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain certain financial ratios. As of January 30, 2021, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. If an event of default were to occur with respect to any of our other debt, it would likely constitute an event of default under the Facility as well. 31 Our credit ratings and outlook as of March 18, 2021, are summarized below. On February 26, 2021, Moody’s upgraded its rating to A3 and confirmed its outlook of Stable. Standard & Poor’s rating and outlook remained unchanged from the prior year. Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically, and, therefore, the credit rating assigned to us by each agency may be subject to revision at any time. Factors that can affect our credit ratings include changes in our operating performance, the economic environment, conditions in the retail and consumer electronics industries, our financial position and changes in our business strategy. If changes in our credit ratings were to occur, they could impact, among other things, interest costs for certain of our credit facilities, our future borrowing costs, access to capital markets, vendor financing terms and future new-store leasing costs. Restricted Cash Our liquidity is also affected by restricted cash balances that are primarily restricted to use for workers' compensation and general liability insurance claims. Restricted cash, which is included in Other current assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, was $131 million and $126 million as of January 30, 2021, and February 1, 2020, respectively. Capital Expenditures Our capital expenditures typically include investments in our information technology (including e-commerce), stores and distribution capabilities. Capital expenditures were as follows ($ in millions): (1) Store-related projects are primarily comprised of store remodels and various merchandising projects. (2) Total capital expenditures exclude non-cash capital expenditures of $32 million, $10 million and $53 million in fiscal 2021, fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively. Non-cash capital expenditures are comprised of finance leases, as well as additions to property and equipment included in accounts payable. Debt and Capital As of January 30, 2021, we had $500 million of principal amount of notes due October 1, 2028 (“2028 Notes”) and $650 million of principal amount of notes due October 1, 2030 (“2030 Notes”). Upon issuance of our 2030 Notes, we cash settled the associated Treasury Rate Lock ("T-Lock") contracts entered into in fiscal 2021 to hedge the base interest rate variability on a portion of our then-expected refinancing of our maturing $650 million of principal amount of notes due March 15, 2021 (“2021 Notes”). The net proceeds from the 2030 Notes were used to replace our 2021 Notes that we retired in December 2020 by exercising our option to redeem the notes at par. Refer to Note 6, Derivative Instruments , and Note 8, Debt , in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about our T-Lock contracts and outstanding debt. Share Repurchases and Dividends We repurchase our common stock and pay dividends pursuant to programs approved by our Board. The payment of cash dividends is also subject to customary legal and contractual restrictions. Our long-term capital allocation strategy is to first fund operations and investments in growth and then return excess cash over time to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases while maintaining investment-grade credit metrics. On February 23, 2019, the Board authorized a $3.0 billion share repurchase program. On February 16, 2021, the Board approved a new $5.0 billion share repurchase program, replacing the existing program which had $1.7 billion remaining available for repurchases as of January 30, 2021. There is no expiration date governing the period over which we can repurchase shares under this authorization. We temporarily suspended all share repurchases from March to November of fiscal 2021 to conserve liquidity in light of COVID-19-related uncertainties. Between the end of fiscal 2021 on January 30, 2021, and March 18, 2021, we repurchased an incremental 8.1 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $873 million. On February 25, 2021, we announced our plans to spend at least $2 billion on share repurchases in fiscal 2022. Share repurchase and dividend activity were as follows ($ and shares in millions, except per share amounts): 32 Dividends declared and paid increased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to an increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend per share. On February 25, 2021 , we announced the Board’s approval of a 27% increase in the regular quarterly dividend to $0.70 per share. Other Financial Measures Our current ratio, calculated as current assets divided by current liabilities, remained relatively unchanged at 1.2 as of January 30, 2021, compared to 1.1 as of February 1, 2020. Our debt to earnings ratio, calculated as total debt (including current portion) divided by net earnings, remained unchanged at 0.8 as of January 30, 2021, and February 1, 2020. Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We do not have outstanding off-balance-sheet arrangements. Contractual obligations as of January 30, 2021, were as follows ($ in millions): For additional information regarding the nature of contractual obligations discussed below, refer to Note 6, Derivative Instruments ; Note 7, Leases ; Note 8, Debt ; and Note 13, Contingencies and Commitments , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. (1) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable, are legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations do not include agreements that are cancelable without penalty. Additionally, although they do not contain legally binding purchase commitments, we included open purchase orders in the table above. Substantially all open purchase orders are fulfilled within 30 days. (2) Lease obligations exclude $56 million of legally binding fixed costs for leases signed but not yet commenced . (3) Operating lease obligations exclude payments to landlords covering real estate taxes and common area maintenance. These charges, if included, would increase total operating lease obligations by $0.7 billion as of January 30, 2021. (4) Represents principal amounts only and excludes interest rate swap valuation adjustments related to our long-term debt obligations. (5) Interest payments related to our 2028 Notes and 2030 Notes include the variable interest rate payments included in our interest rate swaps. Additionally, we have $1.25 billion in undrawn capacity on our Facility as of January 30, 2021, which if drawn upon, would be included as short-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors believed to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. Because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other than our adoption of Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2016-02, Leases , in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, and our adoption of ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , in the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we have not made any material changes to our accounting policies or methodologies during the past three fiscal years. We believe that the following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. These estimates require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments and generally incorporate significant uncertainty. Vendor Allowances Description We receive funds from our merchandise vendors through a variety of programs and arrangements for product advertising and product placement, primarily in the form of allowances based on purchases or sales volumes. We recognize allowances based on purchases and sales as a reduction of cost of sales when the associated inventory is sold. Allowances for advertising and placement are recognized as a reduction of cost of sales ratably over the corresponding performance period. Funds that are determined to be a reimbursement of specific, incremental and identifiable costs incurred to sell a vendor's products are recorded as an offset to the related expense when incurred. 33 Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate Due to the quantity and diverse nature of our vendor agreements, estimates are made to determine the amount of funding to be recognized in earnings or deferred as an offset to inventory. These estimates require a detailed analysis of complex factors, including (1) proper classification of the type of funding received; and (2) the methodology to estimate the portion of purchases-based funding that should be recognized in cost of sales in each period, which considers factors such as inventory turn by product category and actual sell-through of inventory. Effect if actual results differ from assumptions A 10% change in our vendor funding deferral as of January 30, 2021, would have affected net earnings by approximately $33 million in fiscal 2021. The overall level of deferral has remained relatively stable over the last three years. Goodwill Description Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment annually in the fiscal fourth quarter or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The impairment test involves a comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value. Fair value reflects the price a potential market participant would be willing to pay for the reporting unit in an arms-length transaction. Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate Determining fair value of a reporting unit is complex and typically requires analysis of discounted cash flows and other market information, such as trading multiples and other observable metrics. Cash flow analysis requires judgment regarding many factors, such as revenue growth rates, expenses and capital expenditures. Market information requires judgmental selection of relevant market comparables. We have goodwill in two reporting units – Best Buy Domestic and Best Buy Health – with carrying values of $444 million and $542 million, respectively, as of January 30, 2021. There is greater uncertainty surrounding the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of the Best Buy Health reporting unit and therefore a greater degree of complexity and judgment involved in our impairment analysis. Our valuation of Best Buy Health incorporates relatively higher levels of revenue growth than our valuation of Best Buy Domestic and, consequently, estimation of factors such as new customer growth, customer retention rates, capital expenditure requirements, advertising and cost to serve expenses and weighted-average cost of capital rates that incorporate significant judgment. Effect if actual results differ from assumptions A 10% change in the fair value of the Best Buy Health reporting unit as of January 30, 2021, would not have had a material effect on our net earnings in fiscal 2021. Since acquisition, our estimate of the fair value of Best Buy Health has remained relatively stable. Inventory Markdown Description Our merchandise inventories were $5.6 billion as of January 30, 2021. We value our inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value through the establishment of inventory markdown adjustments. Markdown adjustments reflect the excess of cost over the net recovery we expect to realize from the ultimate sale or other disposal of inventory and establish a new cost basis. No adjustment is recorded for inventory that we are able to return to our vendors for full credit. Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate Markdown adjustments involve uncertainty because the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment about the expected revenue and incremental costs we will generate for current inventory. Such estimates include the evaluation of historical recovery rates, as well as factors such as product type and condition, forecasted consumer demand, product lifecycles, promotional environment, vendor return rights and the expected sales channel of ultimate disposition. We also apply judgment in the assumptions about other components of net realizable value, such as vendor allowances and selling costs. Effect if actual results differ from assumptions A 10% change in our markdown adjustment as of January 30, 2021, would have affected net earnings by approximately $13 million in fiscal 2021. The level of markdown adjustments has remained relatively stable over the last three fiscal years. Tax Contingencies Description Our income tax returns are periodically audited by U.S. federal, state and local and foreign taxing authorities. Taxing authorities audit our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. At any one time, multiple tax years are subject to audit by the various taxing authorities. In evaluating the exposures associated with our various tax filing positions, we may record a liability for such exposures. A number of years may elapse before a particular matter, for which we have established a liability, is audited and fully resolved or clarified. We adjust our liability for unrecognized tax benefits and income tax provisions in the period in which an uncertain tax position is effectively settled, the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position or when more information becomes available. Our effective income tax rate is also affected by changes in tax law, the tax jurisdiction of new stores or business ventures, the level of earnings and the results of tax audits. 34 Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and apply judgment to estimate the exposures associated with our various tax filing positions. Such assumptions can include complex and uncertain external factors, such as changes in tax law, interpretations of tax law and the timing of such changes, and uncertain internal factors such as taxable earnings by jurisdiction, the magnitude and timing of certain transactions and capital spending. Effect if actual results differ from assumptions Although we believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established or are required to pay amounts in excess of our established liability, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement may reduce our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. Service Revenue Description We sell support plans as part of a bundled service offer which may include items such as technical support, price discounts on future purchases, anti-virus software and one-time service repairs. We allocate the transaction price to all performance obligations identified in the contract based on their relative fair value. For technical support services, we typically recognize revenue over time on a usage basis, an input method of measuring progress over the related contract term. This method involves the estimation of expected usage patterns, primarily derived from historical information. Judgments and uncertainties involved in the estimate There is judgment in (1) measuring the relative standalone selling price for bundled performance obligations, and (2) assessing the appropriate recognition and methodology for each performance obligation, and for those based on usage, estimating the expected pattern of consumption across a large portfolio of customers. When insufficient reliable and relevant history is available to estimate usage, we generally recognize revenue ratably over the life of the contract until such history has accumulated. Effect if actual results differ from assumptions A 10% change in the amount of services membership deferred revenue as of January 30, 2021, would have affected net earnings by approximately $13 million in fiscal 2021. The amount of services membership deferred revenue has remained relatively stable over the last three fiscal years. New Accounting Pronouncements For a description of new applicable accounting pronouncements, see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.