********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We believe the following discussion identifies the material risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additional risks not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial, could also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our business performance depends substantially on the continued health of the Jack Daniel's family of brands. The Jack Daniel's family of brands is the primary driver of our revenue and Jack Daniel's is an iconic global trademark with a loyal consumer fan base. We invest much effort and many resources to protect and preserve the brand's reputation for authenticity, craftsmanship, and quality. A brand's reputational value is based in large part on consumer perceptions, and even an isolated incident that causes harm – particularly one resulting in widespread negative publicity – could adversely influence these perceptions and erode consumer trust and confidence in the brand. Significant damage to the brand equity of the Jack Daniel's family of brands would adversely affect our business. Given the importance of Jack Daniel's to our overall success, a significant or sustained decline in volume or selling price of our Jack Daniel's products, as a result of negative publicity or otherwise, would have a negative effect on our financial results. Additionally, if we are not successful in our efforts to maintain or increase the relevance of the Jack Daniel's brand to current and future consumers, our business and operating results could suffer. For details on the importance of the Jack Daniel's family of brands to our business, see “Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Fiscal 2024 Brand Highlights.” Changes to our route-to-consumer models and consolidation among beverage alcohol producers, distributors, wholesalers, suppliers, and retailers, could hinder the marketing, sale, or distribution of our products. We use various business models to market and distribute our products in different countries around the world. In the United States, we sell our products either to distributors for resale to retail outlets or e-commerce retailers or, in those states that control alcohol sales, to state governments who then sell them to retail customers and consumers. In our non-U.S. markets, we use a variety of route-to-consumer models – including, in many markets, reliance on third parties to distribute, market, and sell our products. We own and operate distribution companies for 16 international markets. Transitioning from a third-party 15 distribution model to an owned-distribution model involves a significant undertaking, and subjects us to risks associated with that geographic region. If we are unsuccessful in our route-to-consumer strategies, including any transition to owned distribution, the sale and marketing of our products could be disrupted. Changes to any of our route-to-consumer models or distribution partners in important markets could result in temporary or longer-term sales disruption, higher costs, and harm to other business relationships we might have with that partner. Disruption of our distribution network or fluctuations in our product inventory levels at distributors, wholesalers, or retailers could negatively affect our results for a particular period. Moreover, other suppliers, as well as wholesalers and retailers of our brands, offer products that compete directly with ours for shelf space, promotional displays, and consumer purchases. Pricing (including price promotions, discounting, couponing, and free goods), marketing, new product introductions, entry into our distribution networks, and other competitive behavior by other suppliers, and by wholesalers and traditional and e-commerce retailers, could adversely affect our growth, business, and financial results. While we seek to take advantage of the efficiencies and opportunities that large retail customers can offer, they often seek lower pricing and increased purchase volume flexibility, offer competing private label products, and represent a large number of other competing products. If the buying power of these large retail customers continues to increase, it could negatively affect our financial results. Further, while we believe we have sufficient scale to succeed relative to our major competitors, we nevertheless face a risk that continuing consolidation of large beverage alcohol companies could put us at a competitive disadvantage. Consolidation, whether domestically or internationally, among spirits producers, distributors, wholesalers, suppliers, or retailers and the increased growth of the e-commerce environment across the consumer product goods market has created and could continue to create a more challenging competitive landscape for our products. Consolidation at any level could hinder the distribution and sale of our products as a result of reduced attention and resources allocated to our brands both during and after transition periods, because our brands might represent a smaller portion of the new business portfolio. Furthermore, consolidation of distributors may lead to the erosion of margins. Changes in distributors' strategies, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry, the allocation of shelf space for our competitors' brands, or private label products, may adversely affect our growth, business, financial results, and market share. Our competitors may respond to industry and economic conditions and shifts in consumer behaviors more rapidly or effectively than we do. To remain competitive, we must be agile and efficient in adopting digital technologies and building analytical capabilities, which our competitors may be able to achieve with more agility and resources. Changes in consumer preferences and purchases, any decline in the social acceptability of our products, or governmental adoption of policies disadvantageous to beverage alcohol could negatively affect our business results. We are a branded consumer products company in a highly competitive market, and our success depends substantially on our continued ability to offer consumers appealing, high-quality products. Consumer preferences and purchases may shift, often in unpredictable ways, as a result of a variety of factors, including health and wellness trends; changes in economic conditions, demographic, and social trends; public health policies and initiatives; changes in government regulation of beverage alcohol products; concerns or regulations related to product safety; legalization of cannabis and its use on a more widespread basis in the markets where we operate; and changes in trends related to travel, leisure, dining, gifting, entertaining, and beverage consumption. As a result, consumers may begin to shift their consumption and purchases from our premium and super-premium products, or away from alcoholic beverages entirely. This shift includes consumption at home as a result of various factors, including shifts in social trends, and shifts in the channels for the purchases of our products. These shifts in consumption and purchasing channels could adversely impact our profitability. Consumers also may begin to prefer the products of competitors or may generally reduce their demand for brands produced by larger companies. Over the past several decades, the number of small, local distilleries in the United States has grown significantly. This growth is being driven by a trend of consumers showing increasing interest in locally produced, regionally sourced products. As more brands enter the market, increased competition could negatively affect demand for our premium and super-premium American whiskey brands, including Jack Daniel’s. In addition, we could experience unfavorable business results if we fail to attract consumers from diverse backgrounds and ethnicities in all markets where we sell our products. Expansion into new product categories by other suppliers, or innovation by new entrants into the market, could increase competition in our product categories. For example, we have observed an increase in diversification by various consumer goods companies such as the entrance of both traditional beer and soft drink companies into the ready-to-drink market and the entrance of both beer and spirits companies into the cannabis market – expanding the potential for competition in the spirits market from various sectors of the consumer goods industry. Increased competition may, among other things, negatively impact our ability to maintain or gain market share; increase pricing pressure, which inhibits our ability to adequately respond to inflationary changes in commodities used in making our products; require increases in marketing and promotional activities; and negatively impact the market for our premium and super-premium products. To continue to succeed, we must anticipate or react effectively to shifts in demographics, our competition, consumer behavior, consumer preferences, drinking tastes, and drinking occasions. 16 Our long-term plans call for the continued growth of the Jack Daniel's family of brands. If these plans do not succeed, or if we otherwise fail to develop or implement effective business, portfolio, and brand strategies, our growth, business, or financial results could suffer. More broadly, if consumers shift away from spirits (particularly brown spirits such as American whiskey and bourbon), our premium-priced brands, or our ready-to-drink products, our financial results could be adversely affected. We believe that new products, line extensions, label and bottle changes, product reformulations, and similar product innovations by both our competitors and us will increase competition in our industry. Product innovation, particularly for our core brands, is a significant element of our growth strategy; however, there can be no assurance that we will continue to develop and implement successful line extensions, packaging, formulation or flavor changes, or new products. Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations could result in inventory write-offs and other costs, could reduce profits from one year to the next, and could also damage consumers' perception of our brands. Our inability to attract consumers to our product innovations relative to our competitors' products – especially over time – could negatively affect our growth, business, and financial results. Production facility disruption could adversely affect our business. Some of our largest brands, including Jack Daniel's and our tequilas, are distilled at single locations. A catastrophic event causing physical damage, disruption, or failure at any one of our major distillation or bottling facilities, including facilities that support the production of our premium brands such as Woodford Reserve and Old Forester, could adversely affect our business. Further, because whiskeys, rums, and some tequilas are aged for various periods, we maintain a substantial inventory of aged and maturing products in warehouses at a number of different sites. The loss of a substantial amount of aged inventory – through fire, other natural or man-made disaster, contamination, or otherwise – could significantly reduce the supply of the affected product or products. These and other supply (or supply chain) disruptions could prevent us from meeting consumer demand for the affected products in the short and medium term. In addition to catastrophic events identified above, supply disruptions could include the temporary inability to make our products at normal levels or at all. We could also experience disruptions if our suppliers are unable to deliver supplies. Our business continuity plans may not prevent business disruption, and reconstruction of any damaged facilities could require a significant amount of time and resources. The inherent uncertainty in supply/demand forecasting could adversely affect our business, particularly with respect to our aged products. There is an inherent risk of forecasting imprecision in determining the quantity of aged and maturing products to produce and hold in inventory in a given year for future sale. The forecasting strategies we use to balance product supply with fluctuations in consumer demand may not be effective for particular years or products. For example, in addition to our American and Irish whiskeys, rums, and some tequilas, which are aged for various periods, our Scotch whisky brands require long-term maturation – an average of 12 years with limited releases of 30 years or more – making forecasts of demand for such products in future periods subject to significant uncertainty. Our tequila supply also depends on the growth cycle of agave plants, which take approximately six to seven years to reach full maturity, requiring us to make forecasts of demand for our tequilas over a long-time horizon to determine in advance how much agave to plant or otherwise source. Factors that affect our ability to forecast accurately include changes in business strategy, market demand, consumer preferences, macroeconomic conditions, introductions of competing products, and other changes in market conditions. Additionally, our supply of aged products can deviate from expectations due to changes in forecasted maturation loss. Such forecasting errors could lead to our inability to meet the objectives of our business strategy, failure to meet future demand, or a future surplus of inventory and consequent write-down in value of such inventory. A failure to accurately forecast demand for our products or efficiently manage inventory could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in using various levers, such as pricing changes, to create the desired balance of available supply and consumer demand for particular years or products. As a consequence, we may be unable to meet consumer demand for the affected products for a period of time. Furthermore, not having our products in the market consistently may adversely affect our brand equity and future sales. Higher costs or unavailability of water, raw materials, product ingredients, or labor could adversely affect our financial results. Our products use materials and ingredients that we purchase from suppliers. Our ability to make and sell our products depends on the availability of the raw materials, product ingredients, finished products, wood, glass and PET bottles, cans, bottle closures, packaging, and other materials used to produce and package them. Without sufficient quantities of one or more key materials, our business and financial results could suffer. For instance, only a few glass producers make bottles on a scale sufficient for our requirements, and a single producer supplies most of our glass requirements. During the recent global supply chain challenges, our primary glass provider could not produce sufficient quantities to meet our needs, which increased our cost 17 to produce, constrained supply of some of our products, and adversely affected our financial results. In response to these events, we took action to diversify suppliers of our raw materials, including glass. Our glass supply, as well as global supply chains, have stabilized. However, similar supply chain challenges may occur in the future, making it difficult and more expensive to produce and deliver our products. For example, a disruption in the supply of American white oak logs, staves, heading, or steel it could constrain our ability to produce or procure the new charred oak barrels in which we age our whiskeys. If any of our key suppliers were no longer able to meet our timing, quality, or capacity requirements, ceased doing business with us, or significantly raised prices, and we could not promptly develop alternative cost-effective sources of supply or production, our operations and financial results could suffer. Higher costs or insufficient availability of suitable grain, agave, water, molasses, wood, glass, closures, and other input materials, or higher associated labor costs or insufficient availability of labor, may adversely affect our financial results. Similarly, when energy costs rise, our transportation, freight, and other operating costs, such as distilling and bottling expenses, also may increase. Our freight cost and the timely delivery of our products could be adversely affected by a number of factors, including driver or equipment shortages, higher fuel costs, weather conditions, traffic congestion, ocean freight lane disruptions, shipment container availability, rail shutdowns, increased government regulation, and other matters that could reduce the profitability of our operations. Our financial results may be adversely affected if we cannot pass along energy, freight, or other input cost increases through higher prices to our customers without reducing demand or sales. For example, during the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent economic recovery, we experienced supply chain disruptions in connection with the availability of timely modes of transportation to ship our products globally, which resulted in higher costs and delays in supplying some of our products. International or domestic geopolitical or other events, including the imposition of any tariffs or quotas by governmental authorities on any raw materials that we use in the production of our products, could adversely affect the supply and cost of these raw materials to us. While we do not currently expect our production operations to be directly impacted by conflicts around the world, changes in global grain and commodity pricing and availability may impact the markets where we operate. If we cannot offset higher raw material costs with higher selling prices, increased sales volume, or reductions in other costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. Weather, acute or chronic climate change impacts, fires, diseases, and other agricultural uncertainties that affect the health, yield, quality, or price of the various raw materials used in our products also present risks for our business, including in some cases potential impairment in the recorded value of our inventory. Increasing average temperatures could also affect the maturation and yield of our aged inventory over time. Changes in weather patterns or intensity can disrupt our supply chain as well, which may affect production operations, insurance costs and coverage, and the timely delivery of our products. Water is an essential component of our products, so the quality and quantity of available water is critical to our ability to operate our business. If extended droughts become more common or severe, or if our water supply is interrupted for other reasons, high-quality water could become scarce in some key production regions for our products,which in turn could adversely affect our business and financial results. We might not succeed in our strategies for investments, acquisitions, dispositions, and other strategic transactions. From time to time, we acquire or invest in additional brands or businesses. We expect to continue to seek acquisition and investment opportunities that we believe will increase long-term stockholder value, but we may not be able to find investment opportunities, or purchase brands or businesses, at acceptable prices and terms. Acquisitions and investments involve risks and uncertainties, including paying more than a brand or business is ultimately determined to be worth; potential difficulties integrating acquired brands and personnel; the possible loss of key customers or employees most knowledgeable about the acquired business; implementing and maintaining consistent U.S. public company standards, controls, procedures, policies, and information systems; exposure to unknown liabilities; business disruption; and management distraction or departure. We have in the past, and could in the future, incur restructuring charges or record impairment losses on the value of goodwill or other intangible assets resulting from previous acquisitions, or the risk of potential losses on equity investments which may also negatively affect our financial results. From time to time, we also consider disposing of assets or businesses that may no longer meet our financial or strategic objectives. In selling assets or businesses, we may not get prices or terms as favorable as we anticipated. We could also encounter difficulty in finding buyers on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay accomplishment of our strategic objectives. Expected cost savings from reduced overhead, relating to the sold assets, may not materialize. The overhead reductions could temporarily disrupt our other business operations. Any of these outcomes could negatively affect our financial results. 18 Our business faces various risks related to health epidemics and pandemics that could materially and adversely affect our business, our operations, our cash flows, and our financial results. Our business, operations, cash flows, and financial results have previously been, and in the future could be, impacted by health epidemics, pandemics, and similar outbreaks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Any future epidemic, pandemic, or other outbreak could cause negative impacts such as (a) a global or U.S. recession or other economic crisis; (b) credit and capital markets volatility (and access to these markets, including by our suppliers and customers); (c) volatility in demand for our products; (d) changes in accessibility to our products due to illness, quarantines, “stay at home” orders, travel restrictions, retail, restaurant, bar, and hotel closures, social distancing requirements, and other government action; (e) changes in consumer behavior and preferences; and (f) disruptions in raw material supply, in our manufacturing operations, or in our distribution and supply chain. In addition, we may incur increased costs and otherwise be negatively affected if a significant portion of our workforce (or the workforces within our distribution or supply chain) cannot work or work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, “stay at home” orders, social distancing requirements, other government action, facility closures, or other restrictions. Accordingly, a future widespread health epidemic or pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business, our operations, our cash flows, and our financial results. Unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect our operations and results. Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions may be triggered by numerous developments beyond our control, including geopolitical events, health crises, and other events that trigger economic volatility on a global or regional basis. Those types of unfavorable economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. In particular, a significant deterioration in economic conditions, including economic slowdowns or recessions, increased unemployment levels, inflationary pressures, or disruptions to credit and capital markets could lead to decreased consumer confidence in certain countries and consumer spending more generally, thus reducing consumer demand for our products. For example, since 2021, the United States and the European Union have experienced a rapid increase in inflation levels. Such heightened inflationary levels may negatively impact consumer disposable income and discretionary spending and, in turn, reduce consumer demand for our premium products and increase our costs. Unfavorable economic conditions could also cause governments to increase taxes on beverage alcohol to attempt to raise revenue, reducing consumers' willingness to make discretionary purchases of beverage alcohol products or pay for premium brands such as ours. Unfavorable economic conditions could also adversely affect our suppliers, distributors, customers, and retailers, who in turn could experience cash flow challenges, more costly or unavailable financing, credit defaults, and other financial hardships. Such financial hardships could lead to distributor or retailer destocking, disruption in raw material supply, increase in bad debt expense, or increased levels of unsecured credit that we may need to provide to customers. Other potential negative consequences to our business from unfavorable economic conditions include higher interest rates, an increase in the rate of inflation, deflation, exchange rate fluctuations, credit or capital market instability, or lower returns on pension assets or lower discount rates for pension obligations (possibly requiring higher contributions to our pension plans). Product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect our sales. The success of our brands depends on the positive image that consumers have of them. We could decide to or be required to recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, product tampering, spoilage, regulatory non-compliance, food safety issues, or other quality issues. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial results. Actual contamination, whether deliberate or accidental, could lead to inferior product quality and even illness, injury, or death of consumers, potential liability claims, and material loss. Should a product recall become necessary, or we voluntarily recall a product in the event of contamination, damage, or other quality issue, sales of the affected product or our broader portfolio of brands could be adversely affected. A significant product liability judgment or widespread product recall may negatively impact sales and our business and financial results. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, resulting negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential customers and our corporate and brand image. Negative publicity could affect our business performance. Unfavorable publicity, whether accurate or not, related to our industry or to us or our products, brands, marketing, executive leadership, employees, Board of Directors, family stockholders, operations, current or anticipated business performance, or environmental or social efforts could negatively affect our corporate reputation, stock price, ability to attract and retain high-quality talent, or the performance of our brands and business. Adverse publicity or negative commentary on social media, whether accurate or not, particularly any that go “viral,” could cause consumers or other stakeholders to react by disparaging or avoiding our brands or company, which could materially negatively affect our financial results. Additionally, investor advocacy groups, institutional investors, other market participants, stockholders, employees, consumers, customers, influencers, and policymakers have focused increasingly on the environmental, social, and governance or “sustainability” 19 positions and practices of companies. If our positions or practices do not meet investor or other stakeholder expectations and standards, which continue to evolve, our corporate reputation, stock price, ability to attract and retain high-quality talent, and the performance of our brands and business may be negatively affected. Stakeholders and others who disagree with our company's actions, positions, or statements may speak negatively or advocate against the company, with the potential to harm our reputation or business through negative publicity, adverse government treatment, or other means. Our failure to attract or retain key talent could adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team, other key employees, and our high-quality employee base, as well as our ability to attract, motivate, reward, develop, and retain them. Difficulties in hiring or retaining key executive or other employee talent, or the unexpected loss of experienced employees resulting in the depletion of our institutional knowledge base, could have an adverse impact on our business performance, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. Given changing demographics, immigration laws and policies, remote working trends, and demand for talent globally, we may not be able to find the people with the right skills, at the right time, and in the right location, to achieve our business objectives. Risks Related to Our Global Operations Our global business is subject to commercial, political, and financial risks. Our products are sold in more than 170 countries; accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally, including commercial, political, and financial risks. In addition, we are subject to potential business disruption caused by military conflicts; potentially unstable governments or legal systems; social, racial, civil, or political upheaval or unrest; local labor policies and conditions, including labor strikes and work stoppages; possible expropriation, nationalization, or confiscation of assets; problems with repatriation of foreign earnings; economic or trade sanctions; closure of markets to imports; anti-American sentiment; terrorism, kidnapping, extortion, or other types of violence in or outside the United States; and health crises. Violent crime is increasing in markets around the globe, including the United States. If a violent event should occur at one of our sites, it could disrupt business operations, impair brand reputation, increase insurance and security expenses, and adversely affect the price of our stock. Additionally, we may be subject to tariffs imposed on our products by other countries, such as the tariffs imposed in 2018 following the United States tariffs on steel and aluminum. In response to these U.S. tariffs, a number of countries imposed retaliatory tariffs on U.S. imports, including on American whiskey products, which negatively affected our business until they were removed or suspended in late fiscal 2022 and early fiscal 2023. The imposition of tariffs, custom duties, or other restrictions or barriers on imports and exports, or the deterioration of economic relations between the United States and other countries, could increase the cost of our products and, to the extent that we absorb the costs of tariffs, result in higher cost of goods sold and lower gross profit and margins. They could also limit the availability of our products and prompt consumers to seek alternative products. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to overcome the challenges we encounter with respect to these risks and other factors affecting U.S. export companies with a global business. A failure to comply with anti-corruption laws, trade sanctions and restrictions, or similar laws or regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Some of the countries where we do business have a higher risk of corruption than others. While we are committed to doing business in accordance with all applicable laws, including anti-corruption laws and global trade restrictions, we remain subject to the risk that an employee, or one of our many direct or indirect business partners, may take action determined to be in violation of international trade, money laundering, anti-corruption, or other laws, sanctions, or regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or equivalent local laws. Any determination that our operations or activities are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, particularly those related to anti-corruption and international economic or trade sanctions, could result in investigations, interruption of business, loss of business partner relationships, suspension or termination of credit agreements, licenses, and permits (our own or those of our partners), imposition of fines, legal or equitable sanctions, negative publicity, and management distraction or departure. Further, our obligation to comply with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, or other laws or regulations, our Code of Conduct, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, and our other policies could result in higher operating costs, delays, or even competitive disadvantages as compared to competitors based in different parts of the world. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The global scope of our business means that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar influence our financial results. In many markets outside the United States, we sell our products and pay for some goods, 20 services, and labor costs primarily in local currencies. Because our foreign currency revenues exceed our foreign currency expense, we have a net exposure to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to those currencies. Over time, our reported financial results will be negatively impacted by a stronger U.S. dollar and will be benefited by a weaker one. We hedge some of our foreign currency exposure through the use of foreign currency derivatives or other means. However, even in those cases, we do not fully eliminate our foreign currency exposure. For details on how foreign exchange affects our business, see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk - Foreign currency exchange rate risk.” Legal and Regulatory Risks National and local governments may adopt regulations or undertake investigations that could limit our business activities or increase our costs. Our business is subject to extensive regulatory requirements regarding production, exportation, importation, marketing and promotion, labeling, distribution, pricing, and trade practices, among others. Changes in laws, regulatory measures, or governmental policies, or the manner in which current ones are interpreted, could subject us to governmental investigations, cause us to incur material additional costs or liabilities, and jeopardize the growth of our business in the affected market. Specifically, governments could prohibit, impose, or increase limitations on advertising and promotional activities, or times or locations where beverage alcohol may be sold or consumed, or adopt other measures that could limit our opportunities to reach consumers or sell our products. Some countries historically have banned all television, newspaper, magazine, and digital commerce/advertising for beverage alcohol products. Additional regulation of this nature could substantially reduce consumer awareness of our products in the affected markets and make the introduction of new products more challenging. Additional regulation in the United States and other countries addressing the risks and impacts of climate change, use of water, and other environmental and social issues could increase our operating costs. Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the production, distribution, and supply chain costs associated with our products. Tax increases and changes in tax rules could adversely affect our financial results. Our business is sensitive to changes in both direct and indirect taxes. New tax rules, accounting standards or pronouncements, and changes in interpretation of existing rules, standards, or pronouncements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. As a multinational company based in the United States, we are more exposed to the impact of changes in U.S. tax legislation and regulations than most of our major competitors, especially changes that affect the effective corporate income tax rate. For example, in August 2022, the U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 which, among other provisions, implemented a 15% minimum tax on book income of certain large corporations. Additional tax proposals sponsored by the current U.S. presidential administration could lead to U.S. tax changes, including significant increases to the U.S. corporate income tax rate and the minimum tax rate on certain earnings of foreign subsidiaries. While we are unable to predict whether any of these changes will ultimately be enacted, if these or similar proposals are enacted into law, they could negatively impact our effective tax rate and reduce net earnings. At the global level, potential changes in tax rules or the interpretation of tax rules arising out of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) include increased residual profit allocations to market jurisdictions and the implementation of a global minimum tax rate. In December 2021, the OECD issued Pillar Two model rules which would establish a global per-country minimum tax of 15%, and the European Union has approved a directive requiring member states to incorporate similar provisions into their respective domestic laws. The directive requires the rules to initially become effective for fiscal years starting on or after December 31, 2023. While it is uncertain whether the United States will enact legislation to adopt Pillar Two, numerous countries have enacted legislation, or have indicated their intent to adopt legislation, to implement certain aspects of Pillar Two effective January 1, 2024, with general implementation of the remaining global minimum tax rules by January 1, 2025. The OECD and implementing countries are expected to continue to revise their legislation and release additional guidance. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the developments on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures and based on our preliminary calculations, we do not expect the impact to be material. The adoption of these or other proposals could have a material adverse impact on our net income and cash flows in the future. Furthermore, changes in the earnings mix or applicable foreign tax laws could also negatively impact our net income and tax flows. Our business operations are also subject to numerous duties or taxes not based on income, sometimes referred to as “indirect taxes.” These indirect taxes include excise taxes, sales or value-added taxes, property taxes, payroll taxes, import and export duties, and tariffs. Increases in or the imposition of new indirect taxes on our operations or products would increase the cost of our products or materials used to produce our products or, to the extent levied directly on consumers, make our products less affordable, which could negatively affect our financial results by reducing purchases of our products and encouraging consumers to switch to lower-priced or lower-taxed product categories. As governmental entities look for increased sources of 21 revenue, they may increase taxes on beverage alcohol products. In fiscal 2024, we have observed excise tax increases in markets that include France, Portugal, Romania and Türkiye. Additionally in fiscal 2024, Australia has continued to make an annual increase in excise taxes based on the consumer price index. Our ability to market and sell our products depends heavily on societal attitudes toward drinking and governmental policies that both flow from and affect those attitudes. Increased social and political attention has been directed at the beverage alcohol industry. For example, there remains continued attention focused largely on public health concerns related to alcohol abuse, including drunk driving, underage drinking, and the negative health impacts of the abuse and misuse of beverage alcohol. While most people who drink alcoholic beverages do so in moderation, it is commonly known and well reported that excessive levels or inappropriate patterns of drinking can lead to increased risk of a range of health conditions and, for certain people, can result in alcohol dependence. Some academics, public health officials, and critics of the alcohol industry in the United States, Europe, and other parts of the world continue to seek governmental measures to make beverage alcohol more expensive, less available, or more difficult to advertise and promote. If future scientific research indicates more widespread serious health risks associated with alcohol consumption – particularly with moderate consumption – or if for any reason the social acceptability of beverage alcohol declines significantly, sales of our products could be adversely affected. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the availability of our products could inhibit sales of affected products. Various jurisdictions have adopted or may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements or impose limitations on the availability of our products relating to the content or perceived adverse health consequences of some of our products. Several such labeling regulations or laws require warnings on any product with substances that the jurisdiction lists as potentially associated with cancer or birth defects. Our products already raise health and safety concerns for some regulators, and heightened requirements could be imposed. For example, in February 2021, the European Union published its Europe Beating Cancer Plan. The European Union is ultimately expected to issue a proposal for mandatory health warnings on beverage alcohol product labels. Such campaigns could result in additional governmental regulations concerning the production, marketing, labeling, or availability of our products, any of which could damage our reputation, make our premium brands unrecognizable, or reduce demand for our products, which could adversely affect our profitability. If additional or more severe requirements of this type are imposed on one or more of our major products under current or future health, environmental, or other laws or regulations, they could inhibit sales of such products. Further, we cannot predict whether our products will become subject to increased rules and regulations, which, if enacted, could increase our costs or adversely impact sales. Counterfeiting or inadequate protection of our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business prospects. Our brand names, trademarks, and related intellectual property rights are critical assets, and our business depends on protecting them online and in the countries where we do business. We may not succeed in protecting our intellectual property rights in a given market or in challenging those who infringe our rights or imitate or counterfeit our products. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights are legally protected in the markets where we do business, the ability to register and enforce intellectual property rights varies from country to country. In some countries, for example, it may be more difficult to successfully stop counterfeiting or look-alike products, either because the law is inadequate or, even though satisfactory legal options may exist, it may be difficult to obtain and enforce sanctions against counterfeiters. We may not be able to register our trademarks in every country where we want to sell a particular product, and we may not obtain favorable decisions by courts or trademark offices. Many global spirits brands, including some of our brands, experience problems with product counterfeiting and other forms of trademark infringement. We combat counterfeiting by working with other companies in the spirits industry through our membership in the Alliance Against Counterfeit Spirits (AACS) and with brand owners in other industries via our membership in React, an anti-counterfeiting network organization. While we believe AACS and React are effective organizations, they are not active in every market, and their efforts are subject to obtaining the cooperation of local authorities and courts in the markets where they are active. Despite the efforts of AACS, React, and our own teams, lower-quality and counterfeit products that could be harmful to consumers could reach the market and adversely affect our intellectual property rights, brand equity, corporate reputation, and financial results. In addition, the industry as a whole could suffer negative effects related to the manufacture, sale, and consumption of illegally produced beverage alcohol. Litigation and legal disputes could expose our business to financial and reputational risk. Major private or governmental litigation challenging the production, marketing, promotion, distribution, or sale of beverage alcohol or specific brands could affect our ability to sell our products. Because litigation and other legal proceedings 22 can be costly to defend, even actions that are ultimately decided in our favor could have a negative impact on our business reputation or financial results. Lawsuits have been brought against beverage alcohol companies alleging problems related to alcohol abuse, negative health consequences from drinking, problems from alleged marketing or sales practices, and underage drinking. While these lawsuits have been largely unsuccessful in the past, others may succeed in the future. We could also experience employment-related or cybersecurity-related class actions, environmental claims, commercial disputes, product liability actions stemming from a beverage or container production defect, a whistleblower suit, or other major litigation that could adversely affect our business results, particularly if there is negative publicity. As discussed throughout these risk factors, governmental actions around the world are a continuing compliance risk for global companies such as ours. In addition, as a U.S. public company, we are exposed to the risk of securities-related class action suits, particularly following a precipitous drop in the share price of our stock. Adverse developments in major lawsuits concerning these or other matters could result in management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and Data Privacy We rely on information technology (IT) systems to manage our business operations. A cyber breach, a failure or corruption of one or more of our key information technology systems, networks, processes, associated sites, or service providers, or a failure to comply with personal data protection laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. As a company with complex IT systems, we have been a target of cyberattacks and other hacking activities in the past, and we expect to continue to be a target in the future. While past cyberattacks and hacking activities have not materially impacted our business or disrupted our operations, increased IT security threats and more sophisticated cybercrimes and cyberattacks, including computer viruses and other malicious codes, ransomware, unauthorized access attempts, denial-of-service attacks, phishing, social engineering, hacking, and other types of attacks, pose a risk to the security and availability of our IT systems, networks, and services, including those that are managed, hosted, provided, or used by third parties, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data and the data of our customers, partners, consumers, employees, stockholders, suppliers, and others. As a result, we may experience material disruptions or suffer material adverse effects in the future from cyberattacks or other hacking activities. Furthermore, our increasingly mobile, hybrid, and global workforce further increases our attack surface. In the ordinary course of our business, we receive, process, transmit, and store information relating to identifiable individuals (personal data), primarily employees and former employees, beneficiaries of employees or former employees, customers, and consumers. As a result, we are subject to various U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations relating to personal data. Such laws and regulations include the California Consumer Protection Act, the California Privacy Rights Act, data protection and AI regulations in the European Union, and other similar regulations that may change or be added to frequently. Unauthorized access to our IT network, or that of our service providers, suppliers, customers, or other direct or indirect business partners, could result in failure of our IT systems, networks, or services to function properly. This could lead to the loss or unauthorized disclosure of our business strategy or other confidential information; disruptions to our business operations; misappropriation of personal data; and reputational, competitive, or business harm. Each of these events may adversely affect our business operations or financial results, or may cause financial and reputational damage, undermine consumer confidence, subject us to government enforcement actions (including fines), or result in private litigation against us, which could result in loss of revenue, increased costs, liability for monetary damages, fines, or criminal prosecution. Risks Related to Our Ownership and Corporate Governance Structure The Brown family has the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder approval. We are a “controlled company” under New York Stock Exchange rules. Controlled companies are exempt from New York Stock Exchange listing standards that require a board composed of a majority of independent directors, a fully independent nominating/corporate governance committee, and a fully independent compensation committee. We may avail ourselves of the exemption from having a board composed of a majority of independent directors, and we utilize the exemption from having a fully independent nominating/corporate governance committee. Notwithstanding the available exemption, our Compensation Committee is composed exclusively of independent directors. As a result of our use of some “controlled company” exemptions, our corporate governance practices differ from those of non-controlled companies, which are subject to all of the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements. We have two classes of common stock. Our Class A common stock is entitled to full voting powers, including in the elections of directors, while our Class B common stock may not vote except as provided by the laws of Delaware. We have had two classes of common stock since 1959, when our stockholders approved the issuance of two shares of Class B non-voting 23 common stock to every holder of our voting common stock. Dual-class share structures have come under the scrutiny of major indices, institutional investors, and proxy advisory firms, with some calling for the reclassification of non-voting common stock. A majority of our voting stock is controlled by members of the Brown family, and, collectively, they have the ability to control the outcome of stockholder votes, including the election of all of our directors and the approval or rejection of any merger, change of control, or other significant corporate transactions. We believe that having a long-term-focused, committed, and engaged stockholder base provides us with a distinct strategic advantage, particularly in a business with aged products and multi-generational brands. This advantage could be eroded or lost, however, should Brown family members cease, collectively, to be controlling stockholders of the Company. We believe that it is in the interests of all stockholders that we remain independent and family-controlled, and we believe the Brown family stockholders share these interests. Thus, our common stock dual-class share structure, as it has existed since 1959, is perpetual, and we do not have a sunset provision in our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws that provides for the eventual reclassification of the non-voting common stock to voting common stock. However, the Brown family's interests may not always be aligned with other stockholders' interests. By exercising their control, the Brown family could cause the Company to take actions that are at odds with the investment goals or interests of institutional, short-term, non-voting, or other non-controlling investors, or that have a negative effect on our stock price. Further, because the Brown family controls the majority of our voting stock, Brown-Forman might be a less attractive takeover target, which could adversely affect the market price of both our voting and our non-voting common stock. And the difference in voting rights for our common stock could also adversely and disproportionately affect the value of our Class B non-voting common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our Company views, the superior voting rights and control represented by the Class A common stock to have value.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Introduction This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader better understand Brown-Forman, our operations, our financial results, and our current business environment. Please read this MD&A in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes contained in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” (Consolidated Financial Statements). Our MD&A is organized as follows: Presentation Basis Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use some financial measures in this report that are not measures of financial performance under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These non-GAAP measures, defined below, should be viewed as supplements to (not substitutes for) our results of operations and other measures reported under GAAP. Other companies may not define or calculate these non-GAAP measures in the same way. “Organic change” in measures of statements of operations . We present changes in certain measures, or line items, of the statements of operations that are adjusted to an “organic” basis. We use “organic change” for the following measures of the statements of operations: (a) organic net sales; (b) organic cost of sales; (c) organic gross profit; (d) organic advertising expenses; (e) organic selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses; (f) organic other expense (income) net; (g) organic operating expenses 1 ; and (h) organic operating income. To calculate these measures, we adjust, as applicable, for (1) acquisitions and divestitures, (2) impairment charges, (3) other items, and (4) foreign exchange. We explain these adjustments below. • “Acquisitions and divestitures.” This adjustment removes (a) the gain or loss recognized on sale of divested brands, (b) any non-recurring effects related to our acquisitions and divestitures (e.g., transaction, transition, and integration costs or income), and (c) the effects of operating activity related to acquired and divested brands for periods not comparable year over year (non-comparable periods). Excluding non-comparable periods allows us to include the effects of acquired and divested brands only to the extent that results are comparable year over year. During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we acquired Gin Mare Brand, S.L.U. and Mareliquid Vantguard, S.L.U., which owned the Gin Mare brand (Gin Mare). This adjustment removes (a) the transaction, transition, and integration costs related to the acquisition, (b) operating activity for the non-comparable periods, which is activity in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2024, and (c) fair value adjustments to Gin Mare’s earn-out contingent consideration liability that is payable in cash no earlier than July 2024 and no later than July 2027. During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we acquired (a) International Rum and Spirits Distributors Unipessoal, Lda., (b) Diplomático Branding Unipessoal Lda., (c) International Bottling Services, S.A., (d) International Rum & Spirits Marketing Solutions, S.L., and (e) certain assets of Destilerias Unidas Corp., which collectively own the Diplomático Rum brand and related assets (Diplomático). This adjustment removes (a) the transaction, transition, and integration costs related to the acquisition, and (b) operating activity for the non-comparable periods, which is primarily activity in the first three quarters of fiscal 2024. During the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we sold the Finlandia vodka business, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $92 million, and entered into a related transition services agreement (TSA) for this business. This adjustment removes the (a) transaction costs related to the divestiture, (b) the gain on sale of the Finlandia vodka business, (c) operating activity for the 1 Operating expenses include advertising expense, SG&A expense, and other expense (income), net. 29 non-comparable period, which is activity in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2023, and (d) net sales, cost of sales, and operating expenses recognized pursuant to the TSA related to distribution services in certain markets. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we sold the Sonoma-Cutrer wine business in exchange for an ownership percentage of 21.4% in The Duckhorn Portfolio Inc. (Duckhorn) along with $50 million cash and entered into a related TSA for this business. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $175 million. This adjustment removes the transaction costs related to the divestiture and the gain on sale of the Sonoma-Cutrer wine business. During the second quarter of fiscal 2024, we recognized a gain of $7 million on the sale of certain fixed assets. This adjustment removes the gain from our other expense (income), net and operating income. We believe that these adjustments allow for us to better understand our organic results on a comparable basis. See Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. • “Impairment Charges.” This adjustment removes the impact of impairment charges from our results of operations. During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $96 million for the Finlandia brand name. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $7 million for an immaterial discontinued brand name. We believe that these adjustments allow for us to understand our organic results on a comparable basis. • “Other Items.” Other Items include the additional items outlined below. “ Foundation .” During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we committed $23 million to the Brown-Forman Foundation and Dendrifund (the Foundation and Dendrifund) to support the communities where our employees live and work. This adjustment removes the commitment to the Foundation from our organic SG&A expenses and organic operating income to present our organic results on a comparable basis. “Jack Daniel’s Country Cocktails business model change (JDCC).” In fiscal 2021, we entered into a partnership with the Pabst Brewing Company for the supply, sales, and distribution of Jack Daniel's Country Cocktails in the United States while Brown-Forman continued to produce certain products. During fiscal 2024, this production fully transitioned to Pabst Brewing Company for the Jack Daniel’s Country Cocktails products. This adjustment removes the non-comparable operating activity related to the sales of Brown-Forman-produced Jack Daniel’s Country Cocktails products during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024. • “Foreign exchange.” We calculate the percentage change in certain line items of the statements of operations in accordance with GAAP and adjust to exclude the cost or benefit of currency fluctuations. Adjusting for foreign exchange allows us to understand our business on a constant-dollar basis, as fluctuations in exchange rates can distort the organic trend both positively and negatively. (In this report, “dollar” always means the U.S. dollar unless stated otherwise.) To eliminate the effect of foreign exchange fluctuations when comparing across periods, we translate current-year results at prior-year rates and remove transactional and hedging foreign exchange gains and losses from current- and prior-year periods. We use the non-GAAP measure “organic change”, along with other metrics, to: (a) understand our performance from period to period on a consistent basis; (b) compare our performance to that of our competitors; (c) calculate components of management incentive compensation; (d) plan and forecast; and (e) communicate our financial performance to the Board of Directors, stockholders, and investment community. We provide reconciliations of the “organic change” in certain line items of the statements of operations to their nearest GAAP measures in the tables under “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2024 Highlights” and “Results of Operations - Year-Over-Year Comparisons.” We have consistently applied the adjustments within our reconciliations in arriving at each non-GAAP measure. We believe these non-GAAP measures are useful to readers and investors because they enhance the understanding of our historical financial performance and comparability between periods. When we provide guidance for organic change in certain measures of the statements of operations we do not provide guidance for the corresponding GAAP change, as the GAAP measure will include items that are difficult to quantify or predict with reasonable certainty, such as foreign exchange, which could have a significant impact to our GAAP income statement measures. “Return on average invested capital .” This measure refers to the sum of net income and after-tax interest expense, divided by average invested capital. Average invested capital equals assets less liabilities, excluding interest-bearing debt, and is calculated using the average of the most recent five quarter-end balances. After-tax interest expense equals interest expense multiplied by one minus our effective tax rate. We use this non-GAAP measure because we consider it to be a meaningful indicator of how effectively and efficiently we invest capital in our business. 30 In fiscal 2023, we changed the methodology used to determine average invested capital. Previously, average invested capital was computed using the average of the most recent 13 month-end balances. Average invested capital is now calculated using the average of the most recent five quarter-end balances, which are disclosed in the relevant quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K. Return on average invested capital computed using the new methodology does not materially differ from the result computed using the previous methodology for fiscal 2023. The new methodology was consistently applied to return on average invested capital for each period presented. Definitions Aggregations . From time to time, to explain our results of operations or to highlight trends and uncertainties affecting our business, we aggregate markets according to stage of economic development as defined by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and we aggregate brands by beverage alcohol category. Below, we define the geographic and brand aggregations used in this report. Geographic Aggregations. In “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2024 Market Highlights,” we provide supplemental information for our top markets ranked by percentage of reported net sales. In addition to markets listed by country name, we include the following aggregations: • “Developed International” markets are “advanced economies” as defined by the IMF, excluding the United States. Our top developed international markets were Germany, Australia, the United Kingdom, France, Canada, and Spain. This aggregation represents our net sales of branded products to these markets. • “ Spain” includes Spain and certain other surrounding territories. • “Emerging” markets are “emerging and developing economies” as defined by the IMF. Our top emerging markets were Mexico, Poland, and Brazil. This aggregation represents our net sales of branded products to these markets. • “Brazil” includes Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay, and certain other surrounding territories. • “Travel Retail” represents our net sales of branded products to global duty-free customers, other travel retail customers, and the U.S. military, regardless of customer location. • “Non-branded and bulk” includes net sales of used barrels, contract bottling services, and non-branded bulk whiskey and wine, regardless of customer location . Brand Aggregations. In “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2024 Brand Highlights,” we provide supplemental information for our top brands ranked by percentage of reported net sales. In addition to brands listed by name, we include the aggregations outlined below. In fiscal 2023, we began presenting “Ready-to-Drink” products as a separate aggregation due to its more significant contribution to our growth in recent years and industry-wide category growth trends. “Whiskey” no longer contains Jack Daniel’s ready-to-drink (RTD) and ready-to-pour (RTP), and “Tequila” no longer includes New Mix. These brands are now included in the “Ready-to-Drink” brand aggregation. • “Whiskey” includes all whiskey spirits and whiskey-based flavored liqueurs. The brands included in this category are the Jack Daniel’s family of brands (excluding the “Ready-to-Drink” products defined below), the Woodford Reserve family of brands (Woodford Reserve), the Old Forester family of brands (Old Forester), The Glendronach, Glenglassaugh, Benriach, Slane Irish Whiskey, and Coopers’ Craft. • “American whiskey” includes the Jack Daniel’s family of brands (excluding the “Ready-to-Drink” products defined below) and premium bourbons (defined below). • “Premium bourbons” includes Woodford Reserve, Old Forester, and Coopers’ Craft. • “Super-premium American whiskey” includes Woodford Reserve, Gentleman Jack, and other super-premium Jack Daniel's expressions. • “Ready-to-Drink” includes all ready-to-drink (RTD) and ready-to-pour (RTP) products. The brands included in this category are Jack Daniel’s RTD and RTP products (JD RTD/RTP), New Mix, and other RTD/RTP products. 31 • “Jack Daniel’s RTD/RTP” products include all RTD line extensions of Jack Daniel’s, such as Jack Daniel’s & Cola, Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD, Jack Daniel’s Country Cocktails, Jack Daniel’s Double Jack, and other malt- and spirit-based Jack Daniel’s RTDs, along with Jack Daniel’s Winter Jack RTP. • “Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD” includes all Jack Daniel’s and Coca-Cola RTD products and Jack Daniel’s bulk whiskey shipments for the production of this product. • “Tequila” includes el Jimador, the Herradura family of brands (Herradura), and other tequilas. • “Wine” includes Korbel California Champagnes and Sonoma-Cutrer wines (which was divested on April 30, 2024). See Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details. • “Vodka” includes Finlandia, which was divested on November 1, 2023. See Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for details. • “Rest of Portfolio” includes Diplomático, Chambord, Gin Mare, Korbel Brandy, and Fords Gin. • “Non-branded and bulk” includes net sales of used barrels, contract bottling services, and non-branded bulk whiskey and wine. • “Jack Daniel’s family of brands” includes Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Whiskey (JDTW), JD RTD/RTP, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Honey (JDTH), Gentleman Jack, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Apple (JDTA), Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Fire (JDTF), Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Collection (JDSB), Jack Daniel’s Bonded Tennessee Whiskey, Jack Daniel’s Sinatra Select, Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Rye Whiskey (JDTR), Jack Daniel’s Triple Mash Blended Straight Whiskey, Jack Daniel’s Bottled-in-Bond, Jack Daniel’s American Single Malt, Jack Daniel’s 12 Year Old, Jack Daniel’s 10 Year Old, and other Jack Daniel’s expressions. Other Metrics . • “Shipments.” We generally record revenues when we ship or deliver our products to our customers. In this report, unless otherwise specified, we refer to shipments when discussing volume. • “Depletions.” This is a term commonly used in the beverage alcohol industry to describe volume. Depending on the context, depletions usually means either (a) where Brown-Forman is the distributor, shipments directly to retail or wholesale customers or (b) where Brown-Forman is not the distributor, shipments from distributor customers to retailers and wholesalers. We believe that depletions measure volume in a way that more closely reflects consumer demand than our shipments to distributor customers do. • “Consumer takeaway.” When discussing trends in the market, we refer to consumer takeaway, a term commonly used in the beverage alcohol industry that refers to the purchase of product by consumers from retail outlets, including products purchased through e-commerce channels, as measured by volume or retail sales value. This information is provided by third parties, such as Nielsen and the National Alcohol Beverage Control Association (NABCA). Our estimates of market share or changes in market share are derived from consumer takeaway data using the retail sales value metric. We believe consumer takeaway is a leading indicator of consumer demand trends. • “Estimated net change in distributor inventories.” We generally recognize revenue when our products are shipped or delivered to customers. In the United States and certain other markets, our customers are distributors that sell downstream to retailers and consumers. We believe that our distributors’ downstream sales more closely reflect actual consumer demand than do our shipments to distributors. Our shipments increase distributors’ inventories, while distributors’ depletions (as described above) reduce their inventories. Therefore, it is possible that our shipments do not coincide with distributors’ downstream depletions and merely reflect changes in distributors’ inventories. Because changes in distributors’ inventories could affect our trends, we believe it is useful for investors to understand those changes in the context of our operating results. We perform the following calculation to determine the “estimated net change in distributor inventories”: • For both the current-year period and the comparable prior-year period, we calculate a “depletion-based” amount by (a) dividing the organic dollar amount (e.g. organic net sales) by the corresponding shipment volumes to arrive at a shipment per case amount, and (b) multiplying the resulting shipment per case amount by the corresponding depletion volumes. We subtract the year-over-year percentage change of the “depletion-based” amount from the year-over-year percentage change of the organic amount to calculate the “estimated net change in distributor inventories.” 32 • A positive difference is interpreted as a net increase in distributors’ inventories, which implies that organic trends could decrease as distributors reduce inventories; whereas, a negative difference is interpreted as a net decrease in distributors’ inventories, which implies that organic trends could increase as distributors rebuild inventories. 33 Significant Developments Below, we discuss the significant developments in our business during fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024. These developments relate to acquisitions and divestitures, Finlandia brand name impairment, tariffs, supply chain disruptions, innovation, and capital deployment. Acquisitions and Divestitures During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we acquired the Gin Mare brand and the Diplomático brand and related assets for a combined purchase price of $1.2 billion. In fiscal 2023, these brands positively contributed to our reported net sales growth and negatively impacted our reported operating income growth. The negative effect on fiscal 2023 reported operating income was largely driven by transaction expenses of $44 million related to the termination of certain distribution contracts (certain post-closing costs and expenses). In fiscal 2024, these brands positively contributed to our reported net sales growth and reported operating income. During the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we sold the Finlandia vodka business for $196 million cash and entered into a related TSA for this business. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $92 million. The TSA negatively impacted our reported gross margin during fiscal 2024. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we sold the Sonoma-Cutrer wine business in exchange for an ownership percentage of 21.4% in Duckhorn along with $50 million cash and entered into a related TSA for this business. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain of $175 million. Finlandia Impairment During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge of $96 million for the Finlandia brand name, largely due to macroeconomic conditions including rising interest rates and increasing costs. Tariffs The removal of the European Union and United Kingdom tariffs on American whiskey (tariffs) positively affected our results during fiscal 2023. Tariffs include the combined effect of tariff-related costs, whether arising as a reduction of reported net sales or as an increase in reported cost of sales. For fiscal 2023, we estimated that lower costs associated with tariffs (a) reduced our reported cost of sales growth by approximately four percentage points, and (b) increased gross margin by approximately one and a half percentage points. Supply Chain Disruptions Supply chain disruptions negatively impacted our business during fiscal 2023 due to global logistics and transportation challenges that constrained product movement and increased transportation costs. We further discuss the effects of these developments on our results where relevant below. Innovation • Jack Daniel’s family of brands . Innovation within the Jack Daniel’s family of brands has contributed to our growth in the last two fiscal years as described below. ◦ In fiscal 2023, we announced our global relationship with The Coca-Cola Company to introduce the Jack Daniel's & Coca-Cola RTD to select markets around the world. We discuss the impact of the continued product launch on our fiscal 2024 results where relevant below. ◦ In fiscal 2023, we launched Jack Daniel’s Bonded Tennessee Whiskey and Jack Daniel’s Triple Mash Blended Straight Whiskey in the United States and certain developed international and emerging markets. ◦ In fiscal 2023, we launched Jack Daniel’s 12 Year Old in the United States. ◦ In fiscal 2023, we launched Jack Daniel's Tennessee Travelers Whiskey in Travel Retail. ◦ In fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024, we continued the international launch of Jack Daniel’s Tennessee Apple, expanding to certain developed international and emerging markets. ◦ In fiscal 2024, we launched Jack Daniel’s Bonded Rye and Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel Rye Barrel Proof in the United States. 34 ◦ In fiscal 2024, we launched Jack Daniel’s American Single Malt in Travel Retail. ◦ In fiscal 2024, we introduced the Glenglassaugh old and rare cask program. Capital Deployment We have focused our capital deployment initiatives on (a) investing fully in our existing business, (b) continuing our acquisitions and divestitures strategy, and (c) returning cash to our stockholders. • Investments . During fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024, our capital expenditures totaled $411 million and focused on enabling the growth of our premium whiskey, tequila, and rum brands: ◦ During fiscal 2021, our Board of Directors approved a $125 million capital investment to expand our bourbon-making capacity in Kentucky. We completed this project in fiscal 2024. We also built two additional barrel warehouses at our Woodford Reserve distillery during fiscal 2024 to support the continued growth of Woodford Reserve. ◦ During fiscal 2022, our Board of Directors approved a $50 million capital investment to expand our scotch-making capacity in Scotland. We expect to complete this project in fiscal 2026. We also built an additional barrel warehouse at our The Glendronach distillery during fiscal 2023 and two additional barrel warehouses at our Glenglassaugh distillery during fiscal 2024 to support the continued growth of those brands. ◦ During fiscal 2023, our Board of Directors approved an $85 million capital investment to expand our JDTW capacity in Tennessee. We also built four additional barrel warehouses at our Jack Daniel’s distillery during fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024 to support the continued growth of JDTW. ◦ During fiscal 2023, our Board of Directors approved a $200 million capital investment to expand our tequila-making capacity in Mexico. ◦ During fiscal 2024, we built an additional barrel warehouse in Panamá to support the continued growth of Diplomático rum. • Acquisitions and divestitures . During fiscal 2023, we acquired the Gin Mare brand and the Diplomático brand and related assets. During fiscal 2024, we sold the Finlandia vodka business and Sonoma-Cutrer wine business. See Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. • Cash returned to stockholders . During fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2024, we returned a total of $1.2 billion to our stockholders through $782 million in regular dividends and $400 million in share repurchases. 35 Executive Summary Fiscal 2024 Highlights • We delivered reported net sales of $4.2 billion, a decrease of 1% compared to fiscal 2023. The decline in reported net sales was driven by lower volumes, largely offset by favorable price/mix and the positive effect of acquisitions and divestitures. An estimated net decrease in distributor inventories negatively impacted reported net sales. ◦ From a brand perspective, the decline in reported net sales was driven by JDTW, partially offset by growth from our recently acquired brands, Diplomático and Gin Mare. ◦ From a geographic perspective, the decline in reported net sales was driven by the United States and Japan, partially offset by growth in Mexico and Germany. • We delivered reported gross profit of $2.5 billion, an increase of 1% compared to fiscal 2023. Gross margin increased to 60.5% in fiscal 2024, up 1.5 percentage points from 59.0% in fiscal 2023. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by favorable price/mix and lower supply chain disruption related costs, partially offset by higher input costs and the negative effect of foreign exchange. • We delivered reported operating income of $1.4 billion, an increase of 25% compared to fiscal 2023, driven primarily by the positive effect of acquisitions and divestitures (the gains on sale of the Finlandia vodka business and the Sonoma-Cutrer wine business), favorable price/mix, the absence of the prior year period Finlandia non-cash impairment, and lower supply chain disruption related costs, partially offset by operating expense growth, the negative effect of foreign exchange, and the $23 million commitment to the Foundation and Dendrifund. • We delivered diluted earnings per share of $2.14, an increase of 32% compared to fiscal 2023, driven primarily by the increase in reported operating income. • Our return on average invested capital increased to 17.3% in fiscal 2024, compared to 15.3% in fiscal 2023. This increase was driven by higher reported operating income and the benefit of a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by higher invested capital. 36 Summary of Operating Performance Fiscal 2023 and Fiscal 2024 1 See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for details on our use of “organic change” and “return on average invested capital,” including how we calculate these measures and why we think this information is useful to readers. 2 Operating expenses include advertising expense, SG&A expense, and other expense (income), net. 3 Year-over-year changes in percentages are reported in percentage points (pp). 4 Percentage change is not meaningful. 37 Results of Operations Fiscal 2024 Market Highlights The following table shows net sales results for our top markets, summarized by geographic area, for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. We discuss results of the markets most affecting our performance below the table. 1 See “Definitions” above for definitions of market aggregations presented here. 2 "JDCC” is included in the Other Items Non-GAAP Financial Measure. See Presentation Basis above for additional details. 3 See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for details on our use of “organic change” in net sales, including how we calculate this measure and why we believe this information is useful to readers. The United States’ reported net sales declined 4%, driven by lower volumes largely reflecting an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories. The decline was partially offset by higher prices across our portfolio, led by el Jimador and Woodford Reserve, and the growth of our super-premium Jack Daniel’s expressions. Developed International • Germany’s reported net sales increased 10%, led by the launch of the Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD, the positive effect of foreign exchange, and the acquisitions of Diplomático and Gin Mare, partially offset by lower volumes of Jack Daniel’s & Cola. • Australia’s reported net sales declined 8%, led by lower volumes of JD RTDs and the negative effect of foreign exchange, partially offset by higher prices for JD RTDs. • The United Kingdom’s reported net sales declined 11%, driven by lower volumes of Jack Daniel’s & Cola, which we previously distributed, due to the introduction of the Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD that we do not distribute in this market, as well as lower JDTW volumes. The decline was partially offset by the positive effect of foreign exchange. • France’s reported net sales were flat due to JDTW declines, offset by the acquisition of Diplomático and the positive effect of foreign exchange. 38 • Reported net sales in the Rest of Developed International declined 4%, primarily driven by lower volumes across our portfolio in Japan due to an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories in preparation for the transition to owned distribution beginning April 1, 2024. This decline was partially offset by the acquisitions of Gin Mare and Diplomático . Emerging • Mexico’s reported net sales increased 19%, driven by the positive effect of foreign exchange and higher prices of New Mix. • Poland’s reported net sales increased 15%, led by favorable price/mix and higher volumes of JDTW, as well as the positive effect of foreign exchange. • Brazil’s reported net sales increased 5%, driven by higher volumes of JDTA along with the positive effect of foreign exchange. These gains were partially offset by lower volumes of JDTW, reflecting an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories, and JD RTD declines. • Reported net sales in the Rest of Emerging declined 6%, driven by the negative effect of foreign exchange, reflecting the strengthening of the dollar primarily against the Turkish lira, and lower JDTW volumes in the United Arab Emirates due to a net decrease in distributor inventories. These declines were partially offset by JDTW growth in Türkiye. Travel Retail’s reported net sales increased 8%, driven by growth of our super-premium American whiskey portfolio and the acquisitions of Gin Mare and Diplomático. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. 39 Fiscal 2024 Brand Highlights The following table highlights the global results of our top brands for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. We discuss results of the brands most affecting our performance below the table. 1 See “Definitions” above for definitions of brand aggregations presented here. 2 "JDCC” is included in the Other Items Non-GAAP Financial Measure. See Presentation Basis above for additional details. 3 See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for details on our use of “organic change” in net sales, including how we calculate this measure and why we believe this information is useful to readers. Whiskey • Reported net sales for JDTW decreased 6%, led by declines in Japan, the United States, the United Arab Emirates, and Sub-Saharan Africa, along with the negative effect of foreign exchange, primarily reflecting the strengthening of the dollar against the Turkish lira. These declines were partially offset by higher prices and volumes in Türkiye. An estimated net decrease in distributor inventories negatively impacted reported net sales. • Reported net sales for JDTH declined 8%, driven by lower volumes in the United States largely reflecting an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories. • Reported net sales for Gentleman Jack declined 10%, driven by lower volumes in the United States, largely due to an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories, and the negative effect of foreign exchange. The decline was partially offset by higher prices in Türkiye. • Reported net sales for JDTA increased 32%, led by higher volumes in Brazil and the continued product launch in South Korea. • Reported net sales for JDTF declined 11%, driven by lower volumes in the United States largely reflecting an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories. 40 • Woodford Reserve reported net sales increased 2%, driven by favorable price/mix, partially offset by lower volumes in the United States reflecting an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories. • Old Forester reported net sales increased 11%, driven by favorable price/mix and higher volumes in the United States.    An estimated net decrease in distributor inventories negatively impacted reported net sales. • Reported net sales for Rest of Whiskey increased 15%, led by the growth of our other super-premium Jack Daniel's expressions and Glenglassaugh old and rare cask sales. Ready-to-Drink • The JD RTD/RTP brands reported net sales declined 6%, led by lower volumes of Jack Daniel’s & Cola RTD, partially offset by the continued launch of the Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD. An estimated net decrease in distributor inventories in the United States negatively impacted reported net sales. • New Mix grew reported net sales 32%, driven by the positive effect of foreign exchange and higher prices in Mexico. Tequila • el Jimador’s reported net sales were flat, driven by lower volumes in Mexico and the United States, offset by higher prices led by the United States and the positive effect of foreign exchange. • Herradura reported net sales declined 10%, driven by lower volumes in the United States and Mexico, partially offset by the positive effect of foreign exchange. An estimated net decrease in distributor inventories negatively impacted reported net sales. Wine reported net sales were flat as Korbel California Champagne declines in the United States were offset by higher volumes of Sonoma-Cutrer. An estimated net increase in distributor inventories positively impacted reported net sales. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we sold our Sonoma-Cutrer wine business. See Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Non-GAAP Financial Measures above for details. Vodka (Finlandia) reported net sales declined 16%, due to lower volumes. During the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we sold our Finlandia vodka business. See Note 14 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Non-GAAP Financial Measures above for details. Rest of Portfolio reported net sales increased 61%, largely driven by the acquisitions of Diplomático and Gin Mare. 41 Year-Over-Year Comparisons Commentary below compares fiscal 2024 to fiscal 2023 results. A comparison of fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2022 results may be found in “Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023 (2023 Form 10-K). 1 “JDCC” is included in the Other Items Non-GAAP Financial Measure. See Presentation Basis above for additional details. Reported net sales of $4.2 billion decreased 1%, or $50 million, in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, driven by lower volumes, largely offset by favorable price/mix and the positive effect of acquisitions and divestitures. Lower volumes were led by Jack Daniel’s & Cola, due to the introduction of the Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD, and JDTW, reflecting an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories. Price/mix largely reflects higher prices across much of our portfolio, led by JDTW, most notably in Türkiye in response to high inflation and currency devaluation. See “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2024 Market Highlights” and “Results of Operations - Fiscal 2024 Brand Highlights” above for details on the factors contributing to the change in reported net sales for fiscal 2024. 1 “JDCC” is included in the Other Items Non-GAAP Financial Measure. See Presentation Basis above for additional details. Reported cost of sales of $1.7 billion decreased $82 million, or 5%, in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, driven by lower volumes partially offset by cost/mix. Lower volumes were led by Jack Daniel’s & Cola, due to the introduction of the Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD, and JDTW, reflecting an estimated net decrease in distributor inventories. Cost/mix reflects (a) higher input costs, (b) the negative effect of foreign exchange, and (c) the negative effect of acquisitions and divestitures, partially offset by the absence of the significant prior year supply chain disruption related costs. 42 1 “JDCC” is included in the Other Items Non-GAAP Financial Measure. See Presentation Basis above for additional details. 1 “Other” comprises the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, tariffs, and JDCC, which is included in the Other Items Non-GAAP Financial Measure (see Presentation Basis above for additional details). Reported gross profit of $2.5 billion increased $32 million, or 1%, in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Gross margin increased to 60.5% in fiscal 2024, up 1.5 percentage points from 59.0% in fiscal 2023. The increase in gross margin was primarily driven by favorable price/mix and lower supply chain disruption related costs, partially offset by higher input costs and the negative effect of foreign exchange. 1 “Foundation” is included in the Other Items Non-GAAP Financial Measure. See Presentation Basis above for additional details. 2 Operating expenses include advertising expense, SG&A expense, and other expense (income), net. Reported operating expenses totaled $1.4 billion, an increase of $12 million, or 1%, in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. The increase in reported operating expenses was driven by elevated SG&A expense, advertising expense growth, and the negative effect of foreign exchange. The increase was largely offset by the absence of a non-cash impairment charge for the Finlandia brand name in the prior year, as well as the absence of post-closing costs and expenses in connection with the acquisitions of Diplomático and Gin Mare in the prior year. • Reported advertising expenses increased 4% in fiscal 2024, driven by increased investment in JDTW, advertising expense for the recently acquired Gin Mare and Diplomático brands, and advertising expense associated with the launch of Jack Daniel’s & Coca-Cola RTD. • Reported SG&A expenses increased 11% in fiscal 2024, led by higher compensation and benefit-related expenses and the commitment to the Foundation and Dendrifund. 43 1 Other Items include “JDCC” and “Foundation”. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for additional details. Reported operating income was $1.4 billion in fiscal 2024, an increase of $287 million, or 25%, compared to fiscal 2023. Operating margin increased 7.2 percentage points to 33.8% in fiscal 2024 from 26.7% in fiscal 2023, driven primarily by the positive effect of acquisitions and divestitures (gains on sale of the Finlandia vodka business and the Sonoma-Cutrer wine business), favorable price/mix, the absence of the prior year period Finlandia non-cash impairment, and lower supply chain disruption related costs, partially offset by operating expense growth, the negative effect of foreign exchange, and the commitment to the Foundation and Dendrifund. Interest expense (net) increased $32 million, or 40%, in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, due to a higher average debt balances and higher average interest rates on borrowings.. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2024 was 21.2% compared to 23.0% in fiscal 2023. The decrease in our effective tax rate was driven primarily by the decreased impact of foreign operations and state taxes and the beneficial impact of tax rate differences on the sale of the Finlandia vodka business, which was partially offset by the absence of the net benefit from the reversal of the valuation allowances and the impact of the prior fiscal year tax true-ups in fiscal 2024. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details. Diluted earnings per share were $2.14 in fiscal 2024, an increase of 32% compared to fiscal 2023, driven primarily by the increase in reported operating income. Fiscal 2025 Outlook Below we discuss our outlook for fiscal 2025, which reflects the trends, developments, and uncertainties (including those described above) that we expect to affect our business. We anticipate a return to growth for organic net sales and organic operating income in fiscal 2025 driven by gains in international markets and the benefit of normalizing inventory trends. This outlook is tempered by our belief that global macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties will continue to create a challenging operating environment. Accordingly, we expect the following in fiscal 2025: • Organic net sales growth in the 2% to 4% range. • Organic operating income growth in the 2% to 4% range. • Our effective tax rate to be in the range of approximately 21% to 23%. • Capital expenditures planned to be in the range of $195 to $205 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources We generate strong cash flows from operations, which enable us to meet current obligations, fund capital expenditures, and return cash to our stockholders through regular dividends and, from time to time, through share repurchases and special dividends. We believe our investment-grade credit ratings (A1 by Moody's and A- by S&P) provide us with financial flexibility when accessing global debt capital markets and allow us to reserve adequate debt capacity for investment opportunities and unforeseen events. Our operating cash flows are supplemented by cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as access to other liquidity sources. Cash and cash equivalents were $374 million at April 30, 2023, and $446 million at April 30, 2024. As of April 30, 2024, approximately 50% of our cash and cash equivalents were held by our foreign subsidiaries whose earnings we expect to 44 reinvest indefinitely outside of the United States. We continue to evaluate our future cash deployment and may decide to repatriate additional cash held by our foreign subsidiaries. This may require us to provide for and pay additional taxes. We have a $900 million commercial paper program that we use, together with our cash flow from operations, to fund our short-term operational needs. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for outstanding commercial paper balances, interest rates, and days to maturity at April 30, 2023 and April 30, 2024. The average balances, interest rates, and original maturities during 2023 and 2024 are presented below. Our commercial paper program is supported by available commitments under our undrawn $900 million bank credit facility that expires on May 26, 2028. Although unlikely, under extreme market conditions, one or more participating banks may not be able to fund its commitments under our credit facility. To manage this counterparty credit risk, we partner with banks that have investment grade credit ratings, limit the amount of exposure we have with each bank, and monitor each bank’s financial conditions. Our most significant short-term cash requirements relate primarily to funding our operations (such as expenditures for raw materials, production and distribution, advertising and promotion, and current taxes), dividend payments, and capital investments. Our most significant longer-term cash requirements primarily include payments related to our long-term debt, employee benefit obligations, and deferred tax liabilities (see Notes 7, 10, and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). While we expect to meet our planned short-term liquidity needs largely through cash generated from operations and borrowings under our commercial paper program, a sustained market deterioration resulting in declines in net sales and profit could require us to evaluate alternative sources of liquidity. If we have additional liquidity needs, we believe that we could access financing in the debt capital markets. We believe our current liquidity position, supplemented by our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations in the future, and our ample debt capacity enabled by our strong short-term and long-term credit ratings, will be sufficient to meet all of our future financial commitments. 45 Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for each of the last two fiscal years: Cash provided by operations of $647 million during fiscal 2024 increased $7 million from fiscal 2023, primarily reflecting a smaller increase in cash used for working capital compared to the prior fiscal year. Cash provided by investing activities was $49 million during fiscal 2024, compared to $1,355 million used for investing activities during fiscal 2023. The $1,404 million change largely reflects $1,195 million in cash used to acquire Gin Mare and Diplomático during fiscal 2023 and proceeds of $246 million received from the divestitures of Finlandia and Sonoma-Cutrer during fiscal 2024. The change also reflects a $45 million increase in capital expenditures, due largely to additional capital spending on projects to expand the capacity of our whiskey and tequila production facilities during fiscal 2024. Cash used for financing activities was $618 million during fiscal 2024, compared to $239 million in cash provided by financing activities during fiscal 2023. The $857 million change largely reflects a $400 million increase in share repurchases, a $398 million decrease in net proceeds from long-term debt, a $42 million decrease in net proceeds from short-term borrowings, and a $26 million increase in dividend payments. A discussion of our cash flows for fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 may be found in “Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of our 2023 Form 10-K. Dividends In November 2023, our Board of Directors approved a 6% increase in the quarterly cash dividend on our Class A and Class B common stock from $0.2055 per share to $0.2178 per share, effective with the regular quarterly dividend paid on January 2, 2024. As a result, the indicated annual cash dividend increased from $0.8220 per share to $0.8712 per share. On May 23, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly cash dividend on our Class A and Class B common stock of $0.2178 per share. The dividend is payable on July 1, 2024, to stockholders of record on June 7, 2024. Share Repurchases In October 2023, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $400 million (excluding brokerage fees and excise taxes) of outstanding shares of Class A and Class B common stock from October 2, 2023, through October 1, 2024 (the Repurchase Program), subject to market and other conditions. Under the Repurchase Program, we repurchased 175,632 Class A shares at an average price of $59.35 per share and 6,736,658 Class B shares at an average price of $57.83 per share, for a total cost of $400 million. The program was completed in December 2023. 46 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements reflect some estimates involved in applying the following critical accounting policies that entail uncertainties and subjectivity. Using different estimates or policies could have a material effect on our operating results and financial condition. Brand Names and Trademarks When we acquire a business, we allocate the purchase price to the assets and liabilities of the acquired business, including intangible brand names and trademarks (“brand names”), based on estimated fair value. We do not amortize our brand names, all of which we consider to have indefinite lives. We assess our brand names for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. A brand name is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its estimated fair value, in which case we write down the brand name to its estimated fair value. We estimate the fair value of a brand name using the relief-from-royalty method. We also consider market values for similar assets when available. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value, including making assumptions about future cash flows, net sales, discount rates, and royalty rates. We have the option, before quantifying the fair value of a brand name, to evaluate qualitative factors to assess whether it is more likely than not that the brand name is impaired. If we determine that is not the case, then we are not required to quantify the fair value. That assessment also takes considerable management judgment. Based on our assumptions, we believe none of our brand names are impaired as of April 30, 2024. The carrying amounts of the recently-acquired Gin Mare and Diplomático brand names approximate their fair values, based on the relief-from-royalty method, using current assumptions. Reasonably possible changes in those assumptions could result in future impairment of either of those brand names. For example, we estimate that, all else equal, a 15% decline in projected net sales would result in an impairment charge of $25 million for the Gin Mare brand name and $35 million for the Diplomático brand name. We also estimate that, all else equal, a 1 percentage point increase in the discount rate would result in an impairment charge of $29 million for the Gin Mare brand name and $44 million for the Diplomático brand name. We estimate that the fair values of our other brand names substantially exceed their carrying amounts. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits We sponsor various defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans providing retiree health care and retiree life insurance benefits. Benefits are based on factors such as years of service and compensation level during employment. We expense the benefits expected to be paid over employees' expected service. This requires us to make assumptions to determine the net benefit costs and obligations, such as discount rates, return on plan assets, the rate of salary increases, expected service, and health care cost trend rates. We review these assumptions annually and modify them based on current rates and trends when appropriate. The assumptions also reflect our historical experience and management's best judgment regarding future expectations. We believe the discount rates and expected return on plan assets are the most significant assumptions. The discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations is determined at the beginning of each fiscal year using a yield curve based on the interest rates of high-quality debt securities with maturities corresponding to the expected timing of our benefit payments. The service cost and interest cost components are measured by applying the specific spot rates along that yield curve. The expected return on pension plan assets reflects expected capital market returns for each asset class that are based on historical returns, adjusted for the expected effects of diversification. The following table compares the assumed discount rates and expected return on assets used in determining net periodic benefit cost for fiscal 2024 to those to be used in determining that cost for fiscal 2025. Using these assumptions, we estimate our pension and other postretirement benefit cost for fiscal 2025 will be approximately $18 million, compared to $21 million for fiscal 2024. Decreasing the assumed discount rates by 50 basis points would increase the total fiscal 2025 cost by approximately $4 million. Increasing the assumed discount rates by 50 basis points 47 would decrease the total fiscal 2025 cost by approximately $2 million. Decreasing/increasing the assumed return on plan assets by 50 basis points would increase/decrease the total fiscal 2025 cost by approximately $3 million. Income Taxes Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions. We establish liabilities when some positions are likely to be challenged and may not succeed, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these liabilities in light of changing circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit. We believe current liabilities are appropriate for all known contingencies, but this situation could change. Years can elapse before we can resolve a particular matter for which we may have established a tax liability. Although predicting the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular tax matter can be difficult, we believe our liabilities reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies. Unfavorable settlement of any particular issue could require use of our cash and increase our effective tax rate. Conversely, a favorable resolution could result in reduced cash tax payments, the reversal of previously established liabilities, or some combination of these results, which could reduce our effective tax rate. 48