********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent on revenue from our products. Our revenue depends upon continued sales of our products as well as the financial rights we have in our anti-CD20 therapeutic programs. A significant portion of our revenue is concentrated on sales of our products in increasingly competitive markets. Any of the following negative developments relating to any of our products or any of our anti-CD20 therapeutic programs may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations or could cause a decline in our stock price: • the introduction, greater acceptance or more favorable reimbursement of competing products, including new originator therapies, generics, prodrugs and biosimilars of existing products and products approved under abbreviated regulatory pathways; • safety or efficacy issues; • limitations and additional pressures on product pricing or price increases, including those relating to inflation and those resulting from governmental or regulatory requirements, including those relating to any future potential drug price negotiation under the IRA; increased competition, including from generic or biosimilar versions of our products; or changes in, or implementation of, reimbursement policies and practices of payors and other third-parties; • adverse legal, administrative, geopolitical events, regulatory or legislative developments; or • our ability to maintain a positive reputation among patients, healthcare providers and others, which may be impacted by our pricing and reimbursement decisions. LEQEMBI and SKYCLARYS are in the early stages of commercial launch in the U.S. In addition to risks associated with new product launches and the other factors described in these Risk Factors, Biogen’s and Eisai’s ability to successfully commercialize LEQEMBI and our ability to successfully commercialize SKYCLARYS may be adversely affected due to: • Eisai’s ability to obtain and maintain adequate reimbursement for LEQEMBI; • the effectiveness of Eisai's and Biogen’s commercial strategy for marketing LEQEMBI; • requirements such as participation in a registry and the use of imaging or other diagnostics for LEQEMBI; • our ability to obtain approval in other markets; • the approval of other new products for the same or similar indications; • Eisai’s and Biogen’s ability to maintain a positive reputation among patients, healthcare providers and others in the Alzheimer’s disease community, which may be impacted by pricing and reimbursement decisions relating to LEQEMBI, which are made by Eisai; • Biogen's ability to obtain and maintain adequate reimbursement for SKYCLARYS; and • the effectiveness of Biogen's commercial strategy for marketing SKYCLARYS. Our long-term success depends upon the successful development of new products and additional indications for our existing products. Our long-term success will depend upon the successful development of new products from our research and development activities or our licenses or acquisitions from third-parties, as well as additional indications for our existing products. Product development is very expensive and involves a high degree of uncertainty and risk and may not be successful. Only a small number of research and development programs result in the commercialization of a product. It is difficult to predict the success and the time and cost of product development of novel approaches for the treatment of diseases. The development of novel approaches for the treatment of diseases, including development efforts in new modalities such as those based on the antisense oligonucleotide platform and gene therapy, may present additional challenges and risks, including obtaining approval from regulatory authorities that have limited experience with the development of such therapies. For example, we are currently seeking approval of SKYCLARYS in Europe and any delays or challenges regarding its approval in Europe may adversely impact our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the Reata acquisition. 40 Clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations and even if we view data as sufficient to support the safety, effectiveness and/or approval of an investigational therapy, regulatory authorities may disagree and may require additional data, limit the scope of the approval or deny approval altogether. Furthermore, the approval of a product candidate by one regulatory agency does not mean that other regulatory agencies will also approve such product candidate. Success in preclinical work or early-stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical trials will be successful. Clinical trials may indicate that our product candidates lack efficacy, have harmful side effects, result in unexpected adverse events or raise other concerns that may significantly reduce or delay the likelihood of regulatory approval. This may result in terminated programs, significant restrictions on use and safety warnings in an approved label, adverse placement within the treatment paradigm or significant reduction in the commercial potential of the product candidate. Even if we could successfully develop new products or indications, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of a product candidate or indication if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to the standard of care or we prioritize other opportunities in our pipeline. Sales of new products or products with additional indications may not meet investor expectations. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and market position would suffer. The biopharmaceutical industry and the markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We compete in the marketing and sale of our products, the development of new products and processes, the acquisition of rights to new products with commercial potential and the hiring and retention of personnel. We compete with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies that have a greater number of products on the market and in the product pipeline, substantially greater financial, marketing, research and development and other resources and other technological or competitive advantages. Our products continue to face increasing competition from the introduction of new originator therapies, generics, prodrugs and biosimilars of existing products and products approved under abbreviated regulatory pathways. Some of these products are likely to be sold at substantially lower prices than our branded products. The introduction of such products as well as other lower-priced competing products has reduced, and may in the future, significantly reduce both the price that we are able to charge for our products and the volume of products we sell, which will negatively impact our revenue. For instance, demand and price for TECFIDERA declined significantly as a result of multiple TECFIDERA generic entrants entering the U.S. market in 2020. In addition, in some markets, when a generic or biosimilar version of one of our products is commercialized, it may be automatically substituted for our product and significantly reduce our revenue in a short period of time. Our ability to compete, maintain and grow our business may also be adversely affected due to a number of factors, including: • the introduction of other products, including products that may be more efficacious, safer, less expensive or more convenient alternatives to our products, including our own products and products of our collaborators; • the off-label use by physicians of therapies indicated for other conditions to treat patients; • patient dynamics, including the size of the patient population and our ability to identify, attract and maintain new and current patients to our therapies; • the reluctance of physicians to prescribe, and patients to use, our products without additional data on the efficacy and safety of such products; • damage to physician and patient confidence in any of our products, generic or biosimilars of our products or any other product from the same class as one of our products, or to our sales and reputation as a result of label changes, pricing and reimbursement decisions or adverse experiences or events that may occur with patients treated with our products or generic or biosimilars of our products; • inability to obtain and maintain appropriate pricing and adequate reimbursement for our products compared to our competitors in key markets; or • our ability to obtain and maintain patent, data or market exclusivity for our products. Our business may be adversely affected if we do not successfully execute or realize the anticipated benefits of our strategic and growth initiatives. The successful execution of our strategic and growth initiatives may depend upon internal development projects, commercial initiatives and external opportunities, which may include the acquisition and in-licensing of products, 41 technologies, companies, the entry into strategic alliances and collaborations or our Fit for Growth program, as well as our ability to execute on previously-announced initiatives such as the exploration of strategic options for our biosimilars business. While we believe we have a number of promising programs in our pipeline, failure or delay of internal development projects to advance or difficulties in executing on our commercial initiatives could impact our current and future growth, resulting in additional reliance on external development opportunities for growth. Supporting the further development of our existing products and potential new products in our pipeline will require significant capital expenditures and management resources, including investments in research and development, sales and marketing, manufacturing capabilities and other areas of our business. We have made, and may continue to make, significant operating and capital expenditures for potential new products prior to regulatory approval with no assurance that such investment will be recouped, which may adversely affect our financial condition, business and operations. The availability of high quality, fairly valued external product development is limited and the opportunity for their acquisition is highly competitive. As such, we are not certain that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for acquisition or if we will be able to reach agreement to make any such acquisition if suitable candidates are identified. We may fail to initiate or complete transactions for many reasons, including failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals as well as a result of disputes or litigation. Furthermore, we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from transactions, or the benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. We may also face additional costs or liabilities in completed transactions that were not contemplated prior to completion. Any failure in the execution of a transaction, in the integration of an acquired asset or business or in achieving expected synergies could result in slower growth, higher than expected costs, the recording of asset impairment charges and other actions which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, we recently acquired Reata and are in the process of integrating Reata into our Company. The ultimate success of our acquisition of Reata and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, including the SKYCLARYS product and anticipated synergies, depends on, among other things, how effective we are in integrating the Biogen and Reata operations. We face risks associated with our Fit for Growth program that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated savings and operational efficiencies or that may otherwise harm our business. These risks include delays in implementation of cost optimization actions, loss of workforce capabilities, higher than anticipated separation expenses, litigation and the failure to meet financial and operational targets. In addition, the calculation of the anticipated cost savings and other benefits resulting from our Fit for Growth program are subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant business, economic, competitive and other uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. if these estimates and assumptions are incorrect or if we experience delays or unforeseen events, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Sales of our products depend, to a significant extent, on adequate coverage, pricing and reimbursement from third-party payors, which are subject to increasing and intense pressure from political, social, competitive and other sources. Our inability to obtain and maintain adequate coverage, or a reduction in pricing or reimbursement, could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenue and results of operations. Sales of our products depend, to a significant extent, on adequate coverage, pricing and reimbursement from third-party payors. When a new pharmaceutical product is approved, the availability of government and private reimbursement for that product, diagnosis of the condition it treats and the cost to administer it may be uncertain, as is the pricing and amount for which that product will be reimbursed. Pricing and reimbursement for our products may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including: • changes in, and implementation of, federal, state or foreign government regulations or private third-party payors’ reimbursement policies; • pressure by employers on private health insurance plans to reduce costs; • consolidation and increasing assertiveness of payors seeking price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies and, in some cases, the imposition of restrictions on access or coverage of particular drugs or pricing determined based on perceived value; • our ability to receive reimbursement for our products or our ability to receive comparable reimbursement to that of competing products; and 42 • our value-based contracting program pursuant to which we aim to tie the pricing of our products to their clinical values by either aligning price to patient outcomes or adjusting price for patients who discontinue therapy for any reason, including efficacy or tolerability concerns. Our ability to set the price for our products varies significantly from country to country and, as a result, so can the price of our products. Governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing and reference pricing (i.e., referencing prices in other countries and using those reference prices to set a price). Drug prices are under significant scrutiny in the markets in which our products are prescribed; for example the IRA has certain provisions related to drug pricing. We expect drug pricing and other health care costs to continue to be subject to intense political and societal pressures on a global basis. Certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. Our inability to obtain and maintain adequate prices in a particular country may not only limit the revenue from our products within that country but may also adversely affect our ability to secure acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets, which may limit market growth and result in reductions in revenue. This may create the opportunity for third-party cross-border trade or influence our decision to sell or not to sell a product, thus adversely affecting our geographic expansion plans and revenue. Additionally, in certain jurisdictions governmental health agencies may adjust, retroactively and/or prospectively, reimbursement rates for our products. Reimbursement for our products by governments, including the timing of any reimbursements, may also be affected by budgetary or political constraints, particularly in challenging economic environments. Government agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore, have limited control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which they spend money. There can be no assurance that the economic, budgeting or political issues will not worsen and adversely impact sales or reimbursements of our products. Competition from current and future competitors may negatively impact our ability to maintain pricing and our market share. New products marketed by our competitors could cause our revenue to decrease due to potential price reductions and lower sales volumes. Additionally, the introduction of generic or biosimilar versions of our products, follow-on products, prodrugs or products approved under abbreviated regulatory pathways may significantly reduce the price that we are able to charge for our products and the volume of products we sell. Many payors continue to adopt benefit plan changes that shift a greater portion of prescription costs to patients, including more limited benefit plan designs, higher patient co-pay or co-insurance obligations and limitations on patients' use of commercial manufacturer co-pay payment assistance programs (including through co-pay accumulator adjustment or maximization programs). Significant consolidation in the health insurance industry has resulted in a few large insurers and pharmacy benefit managers exerting greater pressure in pricing and usage negotiations with drug manufacturers, significantly increasing discounts and rebates required of manufacturers and limiting patient access and usage. Further consolidation among insurers, pharmacy benefit managers and other payors would increase the negotiating leverage such entities have over us and other drug manufacturers. Additional discounts, rebates, coverage or plan changes, restrictions or exclusions as described above could have a material adverse effect on sales of our affected products. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate coverage, pricing or reimbursement for our products could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, revenue and results of operations. We depend on relationships with collaborators and other third-parties for revenue, and for the development, regulatory approval, commercialization and marketing of certain of our products and product candidates, which are outside of our full control. We rely on a number of collaborative and other third-party relationships for revenue and the development, regulatory approval, commercialization and marketing of certain of our products and product candidates. We also outsource certain aspects of our regulatory affairs and clinical development relating to our products and product candidates to third-parties. Reliance on third-parties subjects us to a number of risks, including: • we may be unable to control the resources our collaborators or third-parties devote to our programs, products or product candidates, which may affect our ability to achieve development goals or milestones; • disputes may arise under an agreement, including with respect to the achievement and payment of milestones, payment of development or commercial costs, ownership of rights to technology developed, and the underlying agreement may fail to provide us with significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if the collaborators or third-parties fail to perform; • the interests of our collaborators or third-parties may not always be aligned with our interests, and such parties may not pursue regulatory approvals or market a product in the same manner or to the same extent 43 that we would, which could adversely affect our revenue, or may adopt tax strategies that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition; • third-party relationships require the parties to cooperate, and failure to do so effectively could adversely affect product sales or the clinical development or regulatory approvals of product candidates under joint control, could result in termination of the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or could result in litigation or arbitration; • any failure on the part of our collaborators or third-parties to comply with applicable laws, including tax laws, regulatory requirements and/or applicable contractual obligations or to fulfill any responsibilities they may have to protect and enforce any intellectual property rights underlying our products could have an adverse effect on our revenue or reputation as well as involve us in possible legal proceedings; and • any improper conduct or actions on the part of our collaborators or third-parties could subject us to civil or criminal investigations and monetary and injunctive penalties, require management attention, impact the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting and/or adversely impact our ability to conduct business, our operating results and our reputation. Given these risks, there is considerable uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. If these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed, revenue from products could decline and/or we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these arrangements. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by current and potential future healthcare reforms. In the U.S., federal and state legislatures, health agencies and third-party payors continue to focus on containing the cost of health care. Legislative and regulatory proposals, enactments to reform health care insurance programs (including those contained in the IRA) and increasing pressure from social sources could significantly influence the manner in which our products are prescribed, purchased and reimbursed. For example, provisions of the PPACA have resulted in changes in the way health care is paid for by both governmental and private insurers, including increased rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, the requirement that manufacturers participate in a discount program for certain outpatient drugs under Medicare Part D and the expansion of the number of hospitals eligible for discounts under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act. These changes have had and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our business. We may face uncertainties as a result of efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the PPACA. There is no assurance that the PPACA, as currently enacted or as amended in the future, will not adversely affect our business and financial results, and we cannot predict how future federal or state legislative or administrative changes relating to healthcare reform will affect our business. There is substantial public attention on the costs of prescription drugs and we expect drug pricing and other health care costs to continue to be subject to intense political and societal pressures on a global basis. In addition, there have been (including elements of the IRA), and are expected to continue to be, legislative proposals to address prescription drug pricing. Some of these proposals could have significant effects on our business, including an executive order issued in September 2020 to test a “most favored nation” model for Part B and Part D drugs that tie reimbursement rates to international drug pricing metrics. These actions and the uncertainty about the future of the PPACA and healthcare laws may put downward pressure on pharmaceutical pricing and increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. There is also significant economic pressure on state budgets, that may result in states increasingly seeking to achieve budget savings through mechanisms that limit coverage or payment for our drugs. In recent years, some states have considered legislation and ballot initiatives that would control the prices of drugs, including laws to allow importation of pharmaceutical products from lower cost jurisdictions outside the U.S. and laws intended to impose price controls on state drug purchases. State Medicaid programs are requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. Government efforts to reduce Medicaid expense may lead to increased use of managed care organizations by Medicaid programs. This may result in managed care organizations influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the population and a corresponding limitation on prices and reimbursement for our products. In the E.U. and some other international markets, the government provides health care at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored health care system. Many countries have announced or implemented measures, and may in the future implement new or additional measures, to reduce health care costs to limit the overall level of government 44 expenditures. These measures vary by country and may include, among other things, patient access restrictions, suspensions on price increases, prospective and possible retroactive price reductions and other recoupments and increased mandatory discounts or rebates, recoveries of past price increases and greater importation of drugs from lower-cost countries. These measures have negatively impacted our revenue and may continue to adversely affect our revenue and results of operations in the future. Our success in commercializing biosimilars is subject to risks and uncertainties inherent in the development, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilars. If we are unsuccessful in such activities, our business may be adversely affected. The development, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products require specialized expertise and are very costly and subject to complex regulation. Our success in commercializing biosimilars is subject to a number of risks, including: • Reliance on Third-Parties. We are dependent, in part, on the efforts of collaboration partners and other third-parties over whom we have limited or no control in the development and manufacturing of biosimilars products. For example, a recently announced potential acquisition of a contract development and manufacturing organization by a third party. If these third-parties fail to perform successfully, or reduce their third party manufacturing production, our biosimilar product development or commercialization of biosimilar products could be delayed, revenue from biosimilar products could decline and/or we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these arrangements; • Regulatory Compliance. Biosimilar products may face regulatory hurdles or delays due to the evolving and uncertain regulatory and commercial pathway of biosimilars products in certain jurisdictions; • Ability to Provide Adequate Supply. Manufacturing biosimilars is complex. If we encounter any manufacturing or supply chain difficulties we may be unable to meet demand. We are dependent on a third-party for the manufacture of our biosimilar products and such third-party may not perform its obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner or in compliance with applicable regulations and may be unable or unwilling to increase production capacity commensurate with demand for our existing or future biosimilar products; • Intellectual Property and Regulatory Challenges. Biosimilar products may face extensive intellectual property clearances and infringement litigation, injunctions or regulatory challenges, which could prevent the commercial launch of a product or delay it for many years or result in imposition of monetary damages, penalties or other civil sanctions and damage our reputation; • Failure to Gain Market and Patient Acceptance. Market success of biosimilar products will be adversely affected if patients, physicians and/or payors do not accept biosimilar products as safe and efficacious products offering a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies; and • Competitive Challenges. Biosimilar products face significant competition, including from innovator products and biosimilar products offered by other companies that may receive greater acceptance or more favorable reimbursement. Local tendering processes may restrict biosimilar products from being marketed and sold in some jurisdictions. The number of competitors in a jurisdiction, the timing of approval and the ability to market biosimilar products successfully in a timely and cost-effective manner are additional factors that may impact our success in this business area. The decision to explore strategic options related to our biosimilars business could adversely affect our operations related to our biosimilars business. Risks Related to Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate protection for our data, intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business may be harmed. Our success, including our long-term viability and growth, depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and defend patent and other intellectual property rights, including certain regulatory forms of exclusivity, that are important to the commercialization of our products and product candidates. Patent protection and/or regulatory exclusivity in the U.S. and other important markets remains uncertain and depends, in part, upon decisions of the patent offices, courts, administrative bodies and lawmakers in these countries. We may fail to obtain, defend or preserve patent and other intellectual property rights, including certain regulatory forms of exclusivity, or the protection we obtain may not be of sufficient breadth and degree to protect our commercial interests in all countries where we conduct business, which could result in financial, business or reputational harm to us or could cause a decline or volatility in our stock price. In addition, settlements of such proceedings often result in reducing the period of exclusivity and other protections, resulting in a reduction in revenue from affected products. 45 In many markets, including the U.S., manufacturers may be allowed to rely on the safety and efficacy data of the innovator's product and do not need to conduct clinical trials before marketing a competing version of a product after there is no longer patent or regulatory exclusivity. In such cases, manufacturers often charge significantly lower prices and a major portion of the company's revenue may be reduced in a short period of time. In addition, manufacturers of generics and biosimilars may choose to launch or attempt to launch their products before the expiration of our patent or other intellectual property protections. Furthermore, our products may be determined to infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by third-parties. Legal proceedings, administrative challenges or other types of proceedings are and may in the future be necessary to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third-parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. Legal proceedings may also be necessary to determine the rights, obligations and payments claimed during and after the expiration of intellectual property license agreements we have entered with third parties. Such proceedings are unpredictable and are often protracted and expensive. Negative outcomes of such proceedings could hinder or prevent us from manufacturing and marketing our products, require us to seek a license for the infringed product or technology or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. A failure to obtain necessary licenses for an infringed product or technology could prevent us from manufacturing or selling our products. Furthermore, payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain could reduce our profits from the covered products and services. Any of these circumstances could result in financial, business or reputational harm to us or could cause a decline or volatility in our stock price. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulation of Our Products and Product Candidates Successful preclinical work or early stage clinical trials does not ensure success in later stage trials, regulatory approval or commercial viability of a product. Positive results in a clinical trial may not be replicated in subsequent or confirmatory trials. Additionally, success in preclinical work or early stage clinical trials does not ensure that later stage or larger scale clinical trials will be successful or that regulatory approval will be obtained. Even if later stage clinical trials are successful, regulatory authorities may delay or decline approval of our product candidates. Regulatory authorities may disagree with our view of the data, require additional studies, disagree with our trial design or endpoints or not approve adequate reimbursement. Regulatory authorities may also fail to approve the facilities or processes used to manufacture a product candidate, our dosing or delivery methods or companion devices. Regulatory authorities may grant marketing approval that is more restricted than anticipated, including limiting indications to narrow patient populations and the imposition of safety monitoring, educational requirements, requiring confirmatory trials and risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. The occurrence of any of these events could result in significant costs and expense, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. Clinical trials and the development of biopharmaceutical products is a lengthy and complex process. If we fail to adequately manage our clinical activities, our clinical trials or potential regulatory approvals may be delayed or denied. Conducting clinical trials is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process. Our ability to complete clinical trials in a timely fashion depends on a number of key factors, including protocol design, regulatory and institutional review board approval, patient enrollment rates and compliance with current Good Clinical Practices. If we or our third-party clinical trial providers or third-party CROs do not successfully carry out these clinical activities, our clinical trials or the potential regulatory approval of a product candidate may be delayed or denied. We have opened clinical trial sites and are enrolling patients in a number of countries where our experience is limited. In most cases, we use the services of third-parties to carry out our clinical trial related activities and rely on such parties to accurately report their results. Our reliance on third-parties for these activities may impact our ability to control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. One CRO has responsibility for a substantial portion of our activities and reporting related to our clinical trials and if such CRO does not adequately perform, many of our trials may be affected, including adversely affecting our expenses associated with such trials. We may need to replace our CROs, which may result in the delay of the affected trials or otherwise adversely affect our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates. Adverse safety events or restrictions on use and safety warnings for our products can negatively affect our business, product sales and stock price. Adverse safety events involving our marketed products, generic or biosimilar versions of our marketed products or products from the same class as one of our products may have a negative impact on our business. Discovery of safety issues with our products could create product liability and could cause additional regulatory scrutiny and 46 requirements for additional labeling or safety monitoring, withdrawal of products from the market and/or the imposition of fines or criminal penalties. Adverse safety events may also damage physician, patient and/or investor confidence in our products and our reputation. Any of these could result in adverse impacts on our results of operations. Regulatory authorities are making greater amounts of stand-alone safety information directly available to the public through periodic safety update reports, patient registries and other reporting requirements. The reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or products similar to ours and public rumors about such events may increase claims against us and may also cause our product sales to decline or our stock price to experience periods of volatility. Restrictions on use or safety warnings that may be required to be included in the label of our products may significantly reduce expected revenue for those products and require significant expense and management time. Risks Related to Our Operations A breakdown or breach of our information systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. We are increasingly dependent upon information systems and data to operate our business. Changes in how we operate have caused us to modify our business practices in ways that heighten this dependence, including changing the requirement that most of our office-based employees in the U.S. and our other key markets work from the office, with many of our employees now working in hybrid or full-remote positions. As a result, we are increasingly dependent upon our information systems to operate our business and our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and adequacy of our information systems and data, which includes use of cloud technologies, including Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS) and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS). Breakdowns, invasions, corruptions, destructions and/or breaches, which impact may include, but not limited to, comprising the capacity, reliability or security of our information systems or those of our business partners, including our cloud tech nologies, and/or unauthorized access to our data and information could subject us to significant liability, negatively impact our business operations, and/or require replacement of technology and/or sizeable ransom payments. Our information systems, including our cloud technologies, continue to increase in multitude and complexity, increasing our vulnerability when breakdowns, malicious intrusions and random attacks occur. Data privacy or security breaches also pose a risk that sensitive data, including intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information belonging to us, patients, customers or other business partners, may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Cybersecurity threats and incidents are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect, particularly when they impact vendors, customers or suppliers, and other companies in our supply chain. Cybersecurity threats and incidents are often carried out by motivated, well-resourced, skilled and persistent actors, including nation states, organized crime groups, “hacktivists” and may include or target employees or contractors acting with careless or malicious intent. Recent developments in the threat landscape include use of AI and machine learning, as well as an increased number of cyber extortion attacks, with higher financial ransom demand amounts and increasing sophistication and variety of ransomware techniques and methodology. Geopolitical instability, including that related to Russia's invasion of Ukraine or the conflict in the Middle East, may increase the risk of cybersecurity threats. Cybersecurity threats or incidents may include deployment of harmful malware and key loggers, ransomware, a denial-of-service attack, a malicious website, the use of social engineering and other means to affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information systems and data. Cybersecurity threats and incidents also include manufacturing, hardware or software supply chain attacks, which could cause a delay in the manufacturing of products or products produced for contract manufacturing or lead to a data privacy or security breach. Our key business partners face similar risks and any security breach of their systems could adversely affect our security posture. In addition, our increased use of cloud technologies heightens these and other operational risks, and any failure by cloud or other technology service providers to adequately safeguard their systems and prevent cyber-attacks could disrupt our operations and result in misappropriation, corruption or loss of confidential or propriety information. While we continue to build and improve our systems and infrastructure, including our business continuity plans, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent cybersecurity threats or incidents in our systems and any such incidents could materially adversely affect our business and operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive information, which could result in material financial, legal, operational or reputational harm to us, loss of competitive advantage or loss of consumer confidence. Our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related breaches. 47 Regulations continue to change as regulators worldwide consider new rules. For example, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure rules regarding cyber security risk management, strategy, governance and incident reporting by public companies. These new regulations or other regulations being considered in Europe and around the world may impact the manner in which we operate. Regulators are imposing new data privacy and security requirements, including new and greater monetary fines for privacy violations. For example, the E.U.’s General Data Protection Regulation established regulations regarding the handling of personal data, and provides an enforcement authority and imposes large penalties for noncompliance. New U.S. data privacy and security laws, such as the CCPA, and others that may be passed, similarly introduce requirements with respect to personal information, and non-compliance with the CCPA may result in liability through private actions (subject to statutorily defined damages in the event of certain data breaches) and enforcement. Failure to comply with these current and future laws, policies, industry standards or legal obligations or any security incident resulting in the unauthorized access to, or acquisition, release or transfer of personal information may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Manufacturing issues could substantially increase our costs, limit supply of our products and/or reduce our revenue. The process of manufacturing our products is complex, highly regulated and subject to numerous risks, including: • Risks of Reliance on Third-Parties and Single Source Providers. We rely on third-party suppliers and manufacturers for many aspects of our manufacturing process for our products and product candidates. In some cases, due to the unique manner in which our products are manufactured, we rely on single source providers of raw materials and manufacturing supplies. These third-parties are independent entities subject to their own unique operational and financial risks that are outside of our control. For example, a recently announced potential acquisition of a contract development and manufacturing organization by a third party. These third-parties may not perform their obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner or in compliance with applicable regulations, and they may be unable or unwilling to increase production capacity commensurate with demand for our existing or future products. Finding alternative providers could take a significant amount of time and involve significant expense due to the specialized nature of the services and the need to obtain regulatory approval of any significant changes to our suppliers or manufacturing methods. We cannot be certain that we could reach agreement with alternative providers or that the FDA or other regulatory authorities would approve our use of such alternatives. • Global Bulk Supply Risks. We rely on our manufacturing facilities for the production of drug substance for our large molecule products and product candidates. Our global bulk supply of these products and product candidates depends on the uninterrupted and efficient operation of these facilities, which could be adversely affected by equipment failures, labor or raw material shortages, geopolitical instability, public health epidemics, natural disasters, power failures, cyber-attacks and many other factors. • Risks Relating to Compliance with current GMP (cGMP). We and our third-party providers are generally required to maintain compliance with cGMP and other stringent requirements and are subject to inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities to confirm compliance. Any delay, interruption or other issues that arise in the manufacture, fill-finish, packaging or storage of our products as a result of a failure of our facilities or operations or those of third-parties to receive regulatory approval or pass any regulatory agency inspection could significantly impair our ability to develop and commercialize our products. Significant noncompliance could also result in the imposition of monetary penalties or other civil or criminal sanctions and damage our reputation. • Risk of Product Loss. The manufacturing process for our products is extremely susceptible to product loss due to contamination, oxidation, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment or vendor or operator error. Even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. If microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our products or manufacturing facilities, we may need to close our manufacturing facilities for an extended period of time to investigate and remediate the contaminant. Any adverse developments affecting our manufacturing operations or the operations of our third-party suppliers and manufacturers may result in shipment delays, inventory shortages, lot failures, product withdrawals or recalls or other interruptions in the commercial supply of our products. Furthermore, factors such as geopolitical events, global health outbreaks, weather events, labor or raw material shortages and other supply chain disruptions could result in difficulties and delays in manufacturing our products, which could have an adverse impact on our results in operations or result in product shortages. We may also have to take inventory write-offs and incur other charges and expense for products that fail to meet specifications, undertake costly remediation efforts or seek more costly manufacturing alternatives. Such developments could increase our 48 manufacturing costs, cause us to lose revenue or market share as patients and physicians turn to competing therapeutics, diminish our profitability or damage our reputation. In addition, although we have business continuity plans to reduce the potential for manufacturing disruptions or delays and reduce the severity of a disruptive event, there is no guarantee that these plans will be adequate, which could adversely affect our business and operations. Management, personnel and other organizational changes may disrupt our operations, and we may have difficulty retaining personnel or attracting and retaining qualified replacements on a timely basis for the management and other personnel who may leave the Company. Changes in management, other personnel and our overall retention rate may disrupt our business, and any such disruption could adversely affect our operations, programs, growth, financial condition or results of operations. New members of management may have different perspectives on programs and opportunities for our business, which may cause us to focus on new opportunities or reduce or change emphasis on our existing programs. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel in a highly competitive environment. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract or retain them. We may face difficulty in attracting and retaining talent for a number of reasons, including management changes, integration related to the Reata acquisition, the underperformance or discontinuation of one or more marketed, pre-clinical or clinical programs, recruitment by competitors or changes in the overall labor market. In addition, changes in our organizational structure or in our flexible working arrangements could impact employees' productivity and morale as well as our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees. We cannot ensure that we will be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary for our operations or that the loss of any personnel will not have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. Our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, distributors and other third-party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, and are subject to change and evolving interpretations, which could require us to incur substantial costs associated with compliance or to alter one or more of our business practices. The FDA and comparable foreign agencies directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting, product risk management and our compliance with good practice quality guidelines and regulations. Our interactions with physicians and other health care providers that prescribe or purchase our products are also subject to laws and government regulation designed to prevent fraud and abuse in the sale and use of products and place significant restrictions on the marketing practices of health care companies. Health care companies are facing heightened scrutiny of their relationships with health care providers and have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of laws and government regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of health care business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations or violations related to environmental matters. There is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including testing, insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. The U.S. government has challenged some of our donations to third-party charities that provide patient assistance. If we, or our vendors or donation recipients, are found to fail to comply with relevant laws, regulations or government guidance in the operation of these or other patient assistance programs, we could be subject to significant fines or penalties. Risks relating to compliance with laws and regulations may be heightened as we continue to expand our global operations and enter new therapeutic areas with different patient populations, which may have different product distribution methods, marketing programs or patient assistance programs from those we currently utilize or support. Conditions and regulations governing the health care industry are subject to change, with possible retroactive effect, including: • new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or judicial decisions, related to health care availability, pricing or marketing practices, compliance with employment practices, method of delivery, payment for health care products and services, compliance with health information and data privacy and security laws and regulations, tracking and reporting payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, extensive anti-bribery and anti-corruption prohibitions, product serialization and labeling requirements and used product take-back requirements; 49 • changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes or perspectives that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; • government shutdowns or relocations may result in delays to the review and approval process, slowing the time necessary for new drug candidates to be reviewed and/or approved, which may adversely affect our business; • requirements that provide for increased transparency of clinical trial results and quality data, such as the EMA's clinical transparency policy, which could impact our ability to protect trade secrets and competitively-sensitive information contained in approval applications or could be misinterpreted leading to reputational damage, misperception or legal action, which could harm our business; and • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products. Violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as against executives overseeing our business. We could also be required to repay amounts we received from government payors or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we submitted to the government. In addition, legal proceedings and investigations are inherently unpredictable, and large judgments or settlements sometimes occur. While we believe that we have appropriate compliance controls, policies and procedures in place to comply with the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, there is a risk that acts committed by our employees, agents, distributors, collaborators or third-party providers might violate such laws or regulations. Whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation or litigation related to alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expense, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. We are increasing our presence in international markets, subjecting us to many risks that could adversely affect our business and revenue. There is no guarantee that our efforts and strategies to expand sales in international markets will succeed. Emerging market countries may be especially vulnerable to periods of global and local political, legal, regulatory and financial instability and may have a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices. Certain countries may require local clinical trial data as part of the drug registration process in addition to global clinical trials, which can add to overall drug development and registration timelines. We may also be required to increase our reliance on third-party agents or distributors and unfamiliar operations and arrangements previously utilized by companies we collaborate with or acquire in emerging markets. Our sales and operations are subject to the risks of doing business internationally, including: • the impact of public health epidemics on the global economy and the delivery of healthcare treatments; • less favorable intellectual property or other applicable laws; • the inability to obtain necessary foreign regulatory approvals of products in a timely manner; • limitations and additional pressures on our ability to obtain and maintain product pricing, reimbursement or receive price increases, including those resulting from governmental or regulatory requirements; • increased cost of goods due to factors such as inflation and supply chain disruptions; • additional complexity in manufacturing internationally, including materials manufactured in China; • delays in clinical trials relating to geopolitical instability related to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the military conflict in the Middle East; • the inability to successfully complete subsequent or confirmatory clinical trials in countries where our experience is limited; • longer payment and reimbursement cycles and uncertainties regarding the collectability of accounts receivable; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may adversely impact our revenue, net income and value of certain of our investments; • the imposition of governmental controls; 50 • diverse data privacy and protection requirements; • increasingly complex standards for complying with foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations; • the far-reaching anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation in the U.K., including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, and elsewhere and escalation of investigations and prosecutions pursuant to such laws; • compliance with complex import and export control laws; • changes in tax laws; and • the imposition of tariffs or embargoes and other trade restrictions. In addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under U.S. law. For example, the U.S. FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising to pay or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA's definition of a foreign government official. Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, disruption in the supply or availability of our products or suspension of export or import privileges, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and damage to our reputation. Any significant impairment of our ability to sell products outside of the U.S. could adversely impact our business and financial results. In addition, while we believe that we have appropriate compliance controls, policies and procedures in place to comply with the FCPA, there is a risk that acts committed by our employees, agents, distributors, collaborators or third-party providers might violate the FCPA and we might be held responsible. If our employees, agents, distributors, collaborators or third-party providers are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We built a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility and are building a gene therapy manufacturing facility, which will result in the incurrence of significant investment with no assurance that such investment will be recouped. In order to support our future growth and drug development pipeline, we have expanded our large molecule production capacity by building a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Solothurn, Switzerland with no assurance that the additional capacity will be required or this investment will be recouped. Although the Solothurn facility was approved by the FDA for ADUHELM and LEQEMBI, there can be no assurance that the regulatory authorities will approve the Solothurn facility for the manufacturing of other products. Additionally, we are building a new gene therapy manufacturing facility in RTP, North Carolina with no assurance that this investment will be fully utilized. If we are unable to fully utilize this gene therapy manufacturing facility, charges from excess capacity may occur and would have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to fully utilize our manufacturing facilities, our business may be harmed. Charges resulting from excess capacity may continue to occur and would have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The illegal distribution and sale by third-parties of counterfeit or unfit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business. Third-parties might illegally distribute and sell counterfeit or unfit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing, distribution and testing standards. A patient who receives a counterfeit or unfit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or unfit drugs sold under our brand name. Inventory that is stolen from warehouses, plants or while in-transit, and that is subsequently improperly stored and sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business. The increasing use of social media platforms and artificial intelligence based software presents new risks and challenges. Social media is increasingly being used to communicate about our products and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. Social media practices in the biopharmaceutical industry continue to evolve and regulations relating to such use are not always clear and create uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. For example, patients may use social media channels to comment on the effectiveness 51 of a product or to report an alleged adverse event. When such disclosures occur, there is a risk that we fail to monitor and comply with applicable adverse event reporting obligations or we may not be able to defend the company or the public's legitimate interests in the face of the political and market pressures generated by social media due to restrictions on what we may say about our products. There is also a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on social media. We may also encounter criticism on social media regarding our company, management, product candidates or products. The immediacy of social media precludes us from having real-time control over postings made regarding us via social media, whether matters of fact or opinion. Our reputation could be damaged by negative publicity or if adverse information concerning us is posted on social media platforms or similar mediums, which we may not be able to reverse. If any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business. Additionally, the use of AI based software is increasingly being used in the biopharmaceutical industry. Use of AI based software may lead to the release of confidential proprietary information which may impact our ability to realize the benefit of our intellectual property. Risks Related to Holding Our Common Stock Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly revenue, expense and net income (loss) have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to the risks described in these Risk Factors as well as the timing of charges and expense that we may take. We have recorded, or may be required to record, charges that include: • the cost of restructurings or other initiatives to streamline our operations and reallocate resources; • the costs associated with decisions to terminate research and development programs; • impairments with respect to investments, fixed assets and long-lived assets, including IPR&D and other intangible assets; • inventory write-downs for failed quality specifications, charges for excess capacity, charges for excess or obsolete inventory and charges for inventory write-downs relating to product suspensions, expirations or recalls; • changes in the fair value of contingent consideration or our equity investments; • bad debt expense and increased bad debt reserves; • outcomes of litigation and other legal or administrative proceedings, regulatory matters and tax matters; • payments in connection with acquisitions, divestitures and other business development activities and under license and collaboration agreements; • failure to meet certain contractual commitments; and • the impact of public health epidemics, on employees, the global economy and the delivery of healthcare treatments. Our revenue and certain assets and liabilities are also subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. Our efforts to mitigate the impact of fluctuating currency exchange rates may not be successful. As a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, and other currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. Our net income may also fluctuate due to the impact of charges we may be required to take with respect to foreign currency hedge transactions. In particular, we may incur higher than expected charges from early termination of a hedge relationship. Our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the anticipated results of future periods. Our investments in properties may not be fully realized. We own or lease real estate primarily consisting of buildings that contain research laboratories, office space and manufacturing operations. We may decide to consolidate or co-locate certain aspects of our business operations or dispose of one or more of our properties, some of which may be located in markets that are experiencing high vacancy rates and decreasing property values. If we determine that the fair value of any of our owned properties is lower than their book value, we may not realize the full investment in these properties and incur significant impairment charges or additional depreciation when the expected useful lives of certain assets have been shortened due to the anticipated closing of facilities. If we decide to fully or partially vacate a property, we may incur significant cost, including facility closing costs, employee separation and retention expense, lease termination fees, rent expense in excess of sublease income and impairment of leasehold improvements and accelerated depreciation of assets. Any of these events may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 52 Our investment portfolio is subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its value. We maintain a portfolio of marketable securities for investment of our cash as well as investments in equity securities of certain biotechnology companies. Changes in the value of our investment portfolio could adversely affect our earnings. The value of our investments may decline due to, among other things, increases in interest rates, downgrades of the bonds and other securities in our portfolio, negative company-specific news, biotechnology market sentiment, instability in the global financial markets that reduces the liquidity of securities in our portfolio, declines in the value of collateral underlying the securities in our portfolio and other factors. Each of these events may cause us to record charges to reduce the carrying value of our investment portfolio or sell investments for less than our acquisition cost. Although we attempt to mitigate these risks through diversification of our investments and continuous monitoring of our portfolio's overall risk profile, the value of our investments may nevertheless decline. There can be no assurance that we will continue to repurchase shares or that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices. From time to time our Board of Directors authorizes share repurchase programs. The amount and timing of share repurchases are subject to capital availability and our determination that share repurchases are in the best interest of our shareholders and are in compliance with all respective laws and our applicable agreements. Our ability to repurchase shares will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, our results of operations, our financial condition and other factors beyond our control that we may deem relevant. Additionally, the recently enacted IRA includes an excise tax on share repurchases, which will increase the cost of share repurchases. A reduction in repurchases under, or the completion of, our share repurchase programs could have a negative effect on our stock price. We can provide no assurance that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices, if at all. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us. We may seek access to the capital and credit markets to supplement our existing funds and cash generated from operations for working capital, capital expenditure and debt service requirements and other business initiatives. The capital and credit markets are experiencing, and have in the past experienced, extreme volatility and disruption, which leads to uncertainty and liquidity issues for both borrowers and investors. In the event of adverse market conditions, we may be unable to obtain capital or credit market financing on favorable terms which could significantly increase our financing costs. Changes in credit ratings issued by nationally recognized credit rating agencies could also adversely affect our cost of financing and the market price of our securities. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. Our indebtedness, together with our significant contingent liabilities, including milestone and royalty payment obligations, could have important consequences to our business; for example, such obligations could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to access capital markets and incur additional debt in the future; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development, research and development and mergers and acquisitions; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Some of our collaboration agreements contain change in control provisions that may discourage a third-party from attempting to acquire us. Some of our collaboration agreements include change in control provisions that could reduce the potential acquisition price an acquirer is willing to pay or discourage a takeover attempt that could be viewed as beneficial to shareholders. Upon a change in control, some of these provisions could trigger reduced milestone, profit or royalty payments to us or give our collaboration partner rights to terminate our collaboration agreement, acquire operational control or force the purchase or sale of the programs that are the subject of the collaboration. General Risk Factors Our effective tax rate fluctuates, and we may incur obligations in tax jurisdictions in excess of accrued amounts. As a global biopharmaceutical company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates, including 53 withholding taxes, in the various places that we operate. In preparing our financial statements, we estimate the amount of tax that will become payable in each of such places. Our effective tax rate may be different than experienced in the past or our current expectations due to many factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of examinations and audits of our tax filings, adjustments to the value of our uncertain tax positions, interpretations by tax authorities or other bodies with jurisdiction, the result of tax cases, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws and regulations either prospectively or retrospectively and the effects of the integration of Reata. Our inability to secure or sustain acceptable arrangements with tax authorities and future changes in the tax laws, among other things, may result in tax obligations in excess of amounts accrued in our financial statements. The enactment of some or all of the recommendations set forth or that may be forthcoming in the OECD’s project on “Base Erosion and Profit Shifting” by tax authorities and economic blocs in the countries in which we operate, could unfavorably impact our effective tax rate. These initiatives focus on common international principles for the entitlement to taxation of global corporate profits and minimum global tax rates. Many countries have or are in the process of enacting legislation intended to implement the OECD GloBE Model Rules effective on January 1, 2024. The impact on the Company will depend on the timing of implementation, the exact nature of each country's GloBE legislation, guidance and regulations thereon and their application by tax authorities either prospectively or retrospectively. Our business involves environmental risks, which include the cost of compliance and the risk of contamination or injury. Our business and the business of several of our strategic partners involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals, biologics and radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of such materials comply with state, federal and foreign standards, there will always be the risk of accidental contamination or injury. If we were to become liable for an accident, or if we were to suffer an extended facility shutdown, we could incur significant costs, damages and penalties that could harm our business. Manufacturing of our products and product candidates also requires permits from government agencies for water supply and wastewater discharge. If we do not obtain appropriate permits, including permits for sufficient quantities of water and wastewater, we could incur significant costs and limits on our manufacturing volumes that could harm our business. Additionally, regulators are considering new environmental disclosure rules. For example, the SEC and other regulators are considering environmental disclosure rules and California enacted new environmental disclosure laws in October 2023 that will generally require additional disclosure and reporting by 2026. The new California laws, the Climate Corporate Data Accountability Act and the Climate-Related Financial Risk Act, each impose additional climate-related reporting requirements on large companies conducting business in the state of California. We expect to be subject to these new laws, which impose extensive reporting obligations about greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related financial risks. These recently enacted and proposed regulations may require us to incur compliance and disclosure costs and require management attention.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes beginning on page F-1 of this report. For our discussion of the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, please read Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY INTRODUCTION Biogen is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing and delivering innovative therapies for people living with serious and complex diseases worldwide. We have a broad portfolio of medicines to treat MS, have introduced the first approved treatment for SMA, co-developed treatments to address a defining pathology of Alzheimer’s disease and launched the first approved treatment to target a genetic cause of ALS. Through our 2023 acquisition of Reata we market the first and only drug approved in the U.S. and the E.U. for the treatment of Friedreich's Ataxia in adults and adolescents aged 16 years and older. We are focused on advancing our pipeline in neurology, specialized immunology and rare diseases. We support our drug discovery and development efforts through internal research and development programs and external collaborations. Our marketed products include TECFIDERA, VUMERITY, AVONEX, PLEGRIDY, TYSABRI and FAMPYRA for the treatment of MS; SPINRAZA for the treatment of SMA; SKYCLARYS for the treatment of Friedreich's Ataxia; QALSODY for the treatment of ALS; and FUMADERM for the treatment of severe plaque psoriasis. We also have collaborations with Eisai on the commercialization of LEQEMBI for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and Sage on the commercialization of ZURZUVAE for the treatment of PPD and we have certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, CLL and other conditions; RITUXAN HYCELA for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and CLL; GAZYVA for the treatment of CLL and follicular lymphoma; OCREVUS for the treatment of PPMS and RMS; LUNSUMIO for the treatment of relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma; COLUMVI, a bispecific antibody for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; and have the option to add other potential anti-CD20 therapies, pursuant to our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group. We commercialize a portfolio of biosimilars of advanced biologics including BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, and FLIXABI, an infliximab biosimilar referencing REMICADE, in certain countries in Europe, as well as BYOOVIZ, a ranibizumab biosimilar referencing LUCENTIS, in the U.S. and certain international markets. We also have exclusive rights to commercialize TOFIDENCE, a tocilizumab biosimilar referencing ACTEMRA. We continue to develop potential biosimilar product SB15, a proposed aflibercept biosimilar referencing EYLEA. In February 2023 we announced that we are exploring strategic options for our biosimilars business. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. We seek to ensure an uninterrupted supply of medicines to patients around the world. To that end, we continually review our manufacturing capacity, capabilities, processes and facilities. In order to support our future growth and drug development pipeline, we expanded our large molecule production capacity and built a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Solothurn, Switzerland. In the second quarter of 2021 a portion of the facility (the first manufacturing suite) received a GMP multi-product license from the SWISSMEDIC and was placed into service. The second manufacturing suite became operational in January 2024. Solothurn has been approved for the manufacture of ADUHELM and LEQEMBI by the FDA. We believe that the Solothurn facility will support our anticipated near to mid-term needs for the manufacturing of biologic assets, including the commercial launch of LEQEMBI. The plant represents a significant increase in our overall manufacturing capacity and is not yet being fully utilized, resulting in our recording of excess capacity charges. If we are unable to fully utilize our manufacturing facilities, we will incur additional excess capacity charges which would have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the longer term, our revenue growth will depend upon the successful clinical development, regulatory approval and launch of new commercial products as well as additional indications for our existing products, our ability to obtain 60 and maintain patents and other rights related to our marketed products, assets originating from our research and development efforts and/or successful execution of external business development opportunities. BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT For a detailed discussion on our business environment, please read Item 1. Business, included in this report. For additional information on our competition and pricing risks that could negatively impact our product sales, please read Item 1A. Risk Factors, included in this report. TECFIDERA Multiple TECFIDERA generic entrants are now in North America, Brazil and certain E.U. countries and have deeply discounted prices compared to TECFIDERA. The generic competition for TECFIDERA has significantly reduced our TECFIDERA revenue and we expect that TECFIDERA revenue will continue to decline in the future. Following a favorable March 2023 decision of the CJEU affirming TECFIDERA's right to regulatory data and marketing protection and the EC determination in May 2023 that TECFIDERA is entitled to an additional year of market protection for its pediatric indication, we believe that TECFIDERA is entitled to regulatory marketing protection in the E.U. until at least February 2, 2025, and are seeking to enforce this protection. In December 2023, the EC revoked all centralized marketing authorizations for generic versions of TECFIDERA. As of December 31, 2023, some of the TECFIDERA generics have not yet fully exited some E.U. markets and we expect removal of all generics from the market will take additional time. We are closely monitoring this situation and working to enforce our legal right to market protection. In addition, we will continue to enforce our EP 2 653 873 patent related to TECFIDERA, which expires in 2028. For additional information, please read Note 21, Litigation , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. BUSINESS UPDATE REGARDING MACROECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND OTHER DISRUPTIONS Significant portions of our business are conducted in Europe, Asia and other international geographies. Factors such as global health outbreaks, adverse weather events, geopolitical events, inflation, labor or raw material shortages and other supply chain disruptions could result in product shortages or other difficulties and delays or increased costs in manufacturing our products. Additionally, global disputes and interruptions in international relationships, including tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements and the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the U.S. or other governments, affect our ability to do business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and China have led to a series of tariffs and sanctions being imposed by the U.S. on imports from China mainland, as well as other business restrictions. CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Economic conditions remain vulnerable as markets continue to be impacted in part by elevated inflation, rising interest rates, global supply chain constraints and recent bank failures. During 2023 concerns arose with respect to the financial condition of certain banking institutions in the U.S., in particular those with exposure to certain types of depositors and large portfolios of investment securities. In March 2023 two such banks were closed and taken over by the FDIC, which created significant market disruption. While we did not have any direct exposure to these institutions, we do maintain our cash at financial institutions, often in balances that exceed the current FDIC insurance limits, and will continue to monitor our cash, cash equivalents and investments and take steps to identify any potential impact and minimize any disruptions on our business. If other banks and financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future due to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and investments, including transferring funds, making payments or receiving funds, may be threatened and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. GEOPOLITICAL TENSIONS The ongoing geopolitical tensions related to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the recent military conflict in the Middle East have resulted in global business disruptions and economic volatility. For example, sanctions and other restrictions have been levied on the government and businesses in Russia. Although we do not have affiliates or employees, in either Russia or Ukraine, we do provide various therapies to patients in Russia through a distributor. In addition, new government sanctions on the export of certain 61 manufacturing materials to Russia may delay or limit our ability to get new products approved. The impact of the conflict on our operations and financial performance remains uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the severity and duration of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, its impact on regional and global economic conditions and whether the conflict spreads or has effects on countries outside Ukraine and Russia. We will continue to monitor the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine as well as the military conflict in the Middle East and assess any potential impacts on our business, supply chain, partners or customers, as well as any factors that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Revenue generated from sales in Russia and Ukraine represent less than 2.0% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Revenue generated from sales in the broader Middle East region represents less than 2.0% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. INFLATION REDUCTION ACT OF 2022 In August 2022 the IRA was signed into law in the U.S. The IRA introduced new tax provisions, including a 15.0% corporate alternative minimum tax and a 1.0% excise tax on stock repurchases. The provisions of the IRA are effective for periods after December 31, 2022. The IRA did not result in any material adjustments to our income tax provision or other income tax balances as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. Preliminary guidance has been issued by the IRS and we expect additional guidance and regulations to be issued in future periods. We will continue to assess its potential impact on our business and results of operations as further information becomes available. The IRA also contains substantial drug pricing reforms that may have a significant impact on the pharmaceutical industry in the U.S. This includes allowing CMS to negotiate a maximum fair price for certain high-priced single source Medicare drugs, as well as redesigning Medicare Part D to reduce out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for beneficiaries, potentially resulting in higher contributions from plans and manufacturers. The IRA also establishes drug inflationary rebate requirements to penalize manufacturers from raising the prices of Medicare covered single-source drugs and biologics beyond the inflation-adjusted rate. Further, to incentivize biosimilar development, the IRA provides an 8.0% Medicare Part B add-on payment for qualifying biosimilar products for a five-year period. The IRA's drug pricing controls and Medicare redesign may have an adverse impact on our sales (particularly for our products that are more substantially reliant on Medicare reimbursement), our business and our results of operations. However, the degree of impact from this legislation on our business depends on a number of implementation decisions. We will continue to assess as further information becomes available. 62 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS As described below under Results of Operations , our net income and diluted earnings per share attributable to Biogen Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, reflects the following: Decreased $337.8 million or 3.3% Decreased $12.90 or 61.8% Decreased $741.1 million or 9.3% • MS revenue decreased $768.3 million, or 14.1% • Rare disease revenue increased $9.5 million, or 0.5% • Biosimilars revenue increased $18.9 million, or 2.5% • The decrease in MS product revenue was primarily due to a decrease in TECFIDERA demand as a result of multiple TECFIDERA generic entrants in North America, Brazil and certain E.U. countries, a decrease in Interferon demand due to competition as patients transition to higher efficacy therapies and a decrease in U.S. TYSABRI revenue primarily driven by increased competition and pricing pressure. • The increase in rare disease revenue was primarily due to revenue from SKYCLARYS, which we began recognizing in the fourth quarter of 2023 as a result of our acquisition of Reata in September 2023. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in rest of world SPINRAZA revenue primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange, increased competition, a decrease in pricing and the timing of shipments. Increased $1,957.2 million or 29.7% • Cost of sales increased $255.1 million, or 11.2% • R&D expense increased $230.9 million, or 10.3% • SG&A expense increased $146.1 million, or 6.1% • Restructuring expense increased $87.7 million, or 66.9% • Other income decreased $423.7 million, net • The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to unfavorable product mix from increased contract manufacturing revenue, MS product mix and higher idle capacity charges, partially offset by a decrease in excess and obsolescence inventory charges in 2023. • The increase in research and development expense was primarily due to clinical trial close out costs incurred in 2023 of approximately $125.4 million and the recognition of $197.0 million in equity-based compensation expense related to our acquisition of Reata. • The increase in selling, general and administrative expense was primarily due to the recognition of $196.4 million in equity-based compensation expense related to our acquisition of Reata . • The increase in restructuring expense was primarily due to higher severance benefits associated with the 2023 cost savings initiatives as compared to 2022. • The decrease in other income, net was primarily due to the pre-tax gain of $1.5 billion recorded in 2022 related to the sale of our equity interest in Samsung Bioepis, partially offset by a pre-tax charge of $900.0 million, plus settlement fees and expenses, related to a litigation settlement agreement • Additionally, total cost and expense in 2022 was reduced by a pre-tax gain of approximately $503.7 million related to a sale of a building. 63 • We generated $1,547.2 million of net cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2023. Net cash flow from operations includes $393.4 million of equity-based compensation expense related to our acquisition of Reata in September 2023. • Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled approximately $1.0 billion as of December 31, 2023, compared to approximately $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to consideration paid for our acquisition of Reata in September 2023. • There were no share repurchases of our common stock during 2023 under our 2020 Share Repurchase Program. Approximately $2.1 billion remained available under our 2020 Share Repurchase Program as of December 31, 2023. DEVELOPMENTS IN KEY COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS LEQEMBI (lecanemab) United States In July 2023 the FDA granted traditional approval of LEQEMBI, an anti-amyloid antibody for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, which was previously granted accelerated approval by the FDA in January 2023. Following the FDA's traditional approval of LEQEMBI, CMS confirmed broader coverage of LEQEMBI. Additionally, in March 2023 Eisai announced that the U.S. Veteran's Health Administration will be providing coverage of LEQEMBI to veterans living with early stages of Alzheimer's disease. Rest of World Key developments related to LEQEMBI (lecanemab) in rest of world markets during 2023 consisted of the following: • In January 2024 we and Eisai announced that the SAG will convene at the request of the CHMP to discuss the MAA of lecanemab that is currently under review by the EMA. The meeting of the SAG is expected to take place during the first quarter of 2024 and the EC decision for the MAA of lecanemab is expected during the first half of 2024. • In January 2024 the NMPA approved LEQEMBI in China, with an expected launch date in 2024. • In December 2023 we and Eisai announced that LEQEMBI intravenous infusion was launched in Japan. • In September 2023 the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare approved LEQEMBI in Japan. • In January 2023 the EMA accepted for review the MAA for lecanemab. • In February 2023 the BLA for lecanemab was granted Priority Review by the NMPA of China. • In May 2023 we and Eisai announced the submission of a MAA for lecanemab to the U.K. MHRA in Great Britain, which has been designated by the MHRA for the Innovative Licensing and Access Pathway. Additionally, in May 2023 Health Canada accepted for review the NDS for lecanemab. • In June 2023 we and Eisai announced the submission of a MAA for lecanemab to the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety in South Korea. ZURZUVAE (zuranolone) In August 2023 the FDA approved ZURZUVAE for adults with PPD, pending DEA scheduling, which was completed in October 2023. Upon approval, ZURZUVAE for PPD became the first and only oral, once-daily, 14-day treatment that can provide rapid improvements in depressive symptoms by day 15 for women with PPD. ZURZUVAE for PPD became commercially available in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2023. Additionally, the FDA issued a CRL for the NDA for zuranolone in the treatment of adults with MDD. The CRL stated that the application did not provide substantial evidence of effectiveness to support the approval of zuranolone for the treatment of MDD and that an additional study or studies would be needed. We and Sage are continuing to seek feedback from the FDA and evaluating next steps. 64 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS REATA ACQUISITION On September 26, 2023,  we completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding shares of Reata, a  biopharmaceutical company focused on developing therapeutics that regulate cellular metabolism and inflammation in serious neurologic diseases. As a result of this transaction we acquired SKYCLARYS (omaveloxolone), the first and only drug approved in the U.S. and the E.U. for the treatment of Friedreich's Ataxia in adults and adolescents aged 16 years and older, as well as other clinical and preclinical pipeline programs. Under the terms of this acquisition, we paid Reata shareholders $172.50 in cash for each issued and outstanding Reata share, which totaled approximately $6.6 billion. In addition, we agreed to pay approximately $983.9 million in cash for Reata's outstanding equity awards, inclusive of employer taxes, of which approximately $590.5 million was attributable to pre-acquisition services and is therefore reflected as a component of total purchase price paid. Of the $983.9 million paid to Reata's equity award holders, we recognized approximately $393.4 million as compensation attributable to the post-acquisition service period, of which $196.4 million was recognized as a charge to selling, general and administrative expense with the remaining $197.0 million as a charge to research and development expense within our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2023 . These amounts were associated with the accelerated vesting of stock options and RSUs previously granted to Reata employees that required no future services to vest. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. OTHER KEY DEVELOPMENTS SKYCLARYS (omaveloxolone) In February 2024 the EC approved SKYCLARYS in the E.U. for the treatment of FA in adults and adolescents aged 16 years and older. SKYCLARYS is the first treatment approved within the E.U. for this rare, genetic, progressive neurodegenerative disease. QALSODY (tofersen) In April 2023 the FDA approved QALSODY for the treatment of ALS in adults who have a mutation in the SOD1 gene. This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on reduction in plasma neurofilament light chain observed in patients treated with QALSODY. Continued approval for this indication may be contingent upon verification of clinical benefit in confirmatory trial(s). TECFIDERA Following a favorable March 2023 decision of the CJEU affirming TECFIDERA's right to regulatory data and marketing protection and the EC determination in May 2023 that TECFIDERA is entitled to an additional year of market protection for its pediatric indication, we believe that TECFIDERA is entitled to regulatory marketing protection in the E.U. until at least February 2, 2025, and are seeking to enforce this protection. In December 2023, the EC revoked all centralized marketing authorizations for generic versions of TECFIDERA. As of December 31, 2023, some of the TECFIDERA generics have not yet fully exited some E.U. markets and we expect removal of all generics from the market will take additional time. We are closely monitoring this situation and working to enforce our legal right to market protection. In addition, we will continue to enforce our EP 2 653 873 patent related to TECFIDERA, which expires in 2028. CORPORATE MATTERS FIT FOR GROWTH In 2023 we initiated additional cost saving measures as part of our Fit for Growth program to reduce operating costs, while improving operating efficiency and effectiveness. The Fit for Growth program is expected to generate approximately $1.0 billion in gross operating expense savings and $800.0 million in net operating expense savings by 2025, some of which will be reinvested in various initiatives. The Fit for Growth program is currently estimated to include net headcount reductions of approximately 1,000 employees and we expect to incur restructuring charges ranging from approximately $260.0 million to $280.0 million. For additional information on our Fit for Growth program, please read Note 4, Restructuring , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 65 DISCONTINUED PROGRAMS AND STUDIES ENVISION STUDY In November 2023 we notified Neurimmune of our decision to terminate our collaboration and license agreement with Neurimmune, to discontinue the development and commercialization of ADUHELM and to terminate the ENVISION clinical study. In connection with this termination, we recorded close-out costs of approximately $60.0 million in research and development expense within our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2023. EMBARK STUDY In September 2023 we discontinued our EMBARK study for aducanumab. In connection with this discontinuation we recorded termination costs of approximately $43.0 million in research and development expense within our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2023 . ACORDA COLLABORATION In January 2024 we notified Acorda of our decision to terminate our collaboration and license agreement, effective January 1, 2025. As a result of this termination, Acorda will regain global commercialization rights to FAMPYRA. BIIB122 In June 2023 we and Denali announced plans to terminate the Phase 3 LIGHTHOUSE study for BIIB122, a small molecule inhibitor of LRRK2 in Parkinson's disease. The protocol for the Phase 2b LUMA study for BIIB122 in patients with early-stage Parkinson’s disease was amended to now include eligible patients with a LRRK2 genetic mutation in addition to continuing to enroll eligible patients with early-stage idiopathic Parkinson’s disease. BIIB093 In April 2023 we announced that we would terminate the development of BIIB093 (glibenclamide IV), currently in a Phase 3 study for LHI and a Phase 2 study for brain contusion, due to operational challenges and other strategic considerations. In connection with this termination, we recorded close-out costs of approximately $13.2 million in research and development expense within our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2023. BIIB131 In April 2023 we announced that we will be pausing the initiation of a Phase 2b study for BIIB131 (TMS-007) for acute ischemic stroke and will continue to assess whether to initiate this study. We sold the rights to BIIB131 to a third-party biopharmaceutical company in exchange for an upfront with potential milestones and future royalties on global sales. BIIB132 In April 2023 we announced that we would discontinue further development of BIIB132 in spinocerebellar ataxia type 3, as part of our ongoing research and development prioritization initiative. 66 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS REVENUE The following revenue discussion should be read in conjunction with Note 5, Revenue , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Revenue is summarized as follows: PRODUCT REVENUE Product revenue is summarized as follows: (1) Other includes FUMADERM, ADUHELM and ZURZUVAE, which became commercially available in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2023. 67 • Global TECFIDERA revenue decreased $431.4 million, from $1,443.9 million in 2022 to $1,012.5 million in 2023, or 29.9%, driven by a decrease in demand as a result of multiple TECFIDERA generic entrants in North America, Brazil and certain E.U. countries. • Global Interferon revenue decreased $199.7 million, from $1,305.4 million in 2022 to $1,105.7 million in 2023, or 15.3%, driven by a decrease in sales volumes as patients transition to higher efficacy therapies. • Global VUMERITY revenue increased $22.9 million, from $553.4 million in 2022 to $576.3 million in 2023, or 4.1%, primarily due to an increase in global demand, partially offset by higher discounts and allowances in the U.S. driven by a favorable Medicaid-related sales adjustment in the first quarter of 2022. • Global TYSABRI revenue decreased $154.0 million, from $2,030.9 million in 2022 to $1,876.9 million in 2023, or 7.6%, primarily due to a decrease in U.S. TYSABRI revenue driven by a decrease in demand, higher discounts and unfavorable channel dynamics. MS revenue includes sales from TECFIDERA, VUMERITY, AVONEX, PLEGRIDY, TYSABRI and FAMPYRA. In 2024 we expect total MS revenue will continue to decline as a result of increasing competition for many of our MS products in both the U.S. and rest of world markets. We are also aware of a biosimilar entrant of TYSABRI that was approved in the U.S. in August 2023 and the E.U. in September 2023. We believe that future sales of TYSABRI may be adversely affected by the entrance of this biosimilar. We believe that we have resolved previously reported manufacturing issues at our VUMERITY contract manufacturer. In addition, we are in the process of securing regulatory approval for a secondary source of supply. We do not anticipate a supply shortage in 2024 and are currently focused on rebuilding adequate inventory. 68 • U.S. SPINRAZA revenue increased $10.3 million, from $600.2 million in 2022 to $610.5 million in 2023, or 1.7%, primarily due to an increase in pricing, partially offset by higher discounts and allowances. • Rest of world SPINRAZA revenue decreased $62.6 million, from $1,193.3 million in 2022 to $1,130.7 million in 2023, or 5.2%, primarily due to the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange, a decrease in demand in certain European markets driven by increased competition, a decrease in pricing and the timing of shipments in certain Asian markets. • U.S. SKYCLARYS revenue was $55.9 million in 2023, which we began recognizing during the fourth quarter of 2023, subsequent to our acquisition of Reata. Rare disease revenue includes sales from SPINRAZA, QALSODY, which became commercially available in the U.S. during the second quarter of 2023, and SKYCLARYS (omaveloxolone), which was obtained as part of our acquisition of Reata in September 2023. SKYCLARYS became commercially available in the U.S. during the second quarter of 2023 and we began recognizing revenue from SKYCLARYS in the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2023, subsequent to our acquisition of Reata. In February 2024 the EC approved SKYCLARYS in the E.U. for the treatment of FA in adults and adolescents aged 16 years and older. In 2024 we expect growth in rare disease revenue as we continue to launch SKYCLARYS in the U.S. Despite competition from a gene therapy product and an oral product, we anticipate SPINRAZA revenue to be relatively flat in 2024. We expect moderate growth in SPINRAZA in the U.S. as well as continued access expansion in emerging markets to offset increased competition and the impact of loading dose dynamics. 69 • For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in biosimilar revenue was primarily due to an increase in sales volumes related to the continued launch of BYOOVIZ in the U.S. and rest of world, partially offset by unfavorable BYOOVIZ pricing and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency exchange. Biosimilars revenue includes sales from BENEPALI, IMRALDI, FLIXABI and BYOOVIZ. BYOOVIZ launched in the U.S. in June 2022 and became commercially available in July 2022 through major distributors in the U.S. In 2023 BYOOVIZ became commercially available in certain international markets. During the third quarter of 2023 the FDA approved TOFIDENCE, a tocilizumab biosimilar referencing ACTEMRA, which we expect to become commercially available during 2024. In 2024 we anticipate modest growth in revenue from our biosimilars business driven by the continued launch of BYOOVIZ in the U.S. and rest of world, offset in part by lower pricing in certain markets. We continue to work with our third-party contract manufacturers for IMRALDI and BENEPALI to address supply constraints. If not resolved these supply constraints could have an adverse impact on 2024 sales. In addition, one of our contract manufacturers for IMRALDI and BENEPALI entered into a proposed acquisition by a third party, which is expected to close at the end of 2024. We are currently evaluating the impact this will have on our biosimilars business. In February 2023 we announced that we are exploring strategic options for our biosimilars business. 70 REVENUE FROM ANTI-CD20 THERAPEUTIC PROGRAMS Our share of RITUXAN, including RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA and LUNSUMIO collaboration operating profits in the U.S., royalty revenue on sales of OCREVUS and other revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs are summarized in the table below. For purposes of this discussion, we refer to RITUXAN and RITUXAN HYCELA collectively as RITUXAN. (1) LUNSUMIO became commercially available in the U.S. during the first quarter of 2023. ROYALTY REVENUE ON SALES OF OCREVUS For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in royalty revenue on sales of OCREVUS was primarily due to sales growth of OCREVUS in the U.S. OCREVUS royalty revenue is based on our estimates from third party and market research data of OCREVUS sales occurring during the corresponding period. Differences between actual and estimated royalty revenue will be adjusted for in the period in which they become known, which is generally expected to be the following quarter. BIOGEN'S SHARE OF PRE-TAX PROFITS IN THE US. FOR RITUXAN, GAZYVA AND LUNSUMIO The following table provides a summary of amounts comprising our share of pre-tax profits in the U.S. for RITUXAN, GAZYVA and LUNSUMIO: For 2023 compared to 2022, the decrease in U.S. product revenue, net was primarily due to a decrease in sales volumes of RITUXAN in the U.S. of 15.2%, resulting from competition from multiple biosimilar products, partially offset by an increase in sales volumes of GAZYVA of 17.9%. For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in collaboration costs and expense was primarily due to higher expense related to LUNSUMIO, which became commercially available in the first quarter of 2023. In April 2023 our pre-tax profit share for RITUXAN, GAZYVA and LUNSUMIO decreased from 37.5% to 35.0%. Prior to regulatory approval, we record our share of the expense incurred by the collaboration for the development of anti-CD20 products in research and development expense and pre-commercialization costs within selling, general and administrative expense in our consolidated statements of income. After an anti-CD20 product is approved, we record our share of the development and sales and marketing expense related to that product as a reduction of our share of pre-tax profits in revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs. We are aware of several other anti-CD20 molecules, including biosimilar products, that have been approved and are competing with RITUXAN and GAZYVA in the oncology and other markets. B i osimilar products referencing RITUXAN have launched in the U.S and are being offered at lower prices. This competition has had a significant adverse impact on the pre-tax profits of our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, as the sales of RITUXAN have decreased substantially compared to prior periods. We expect that biosimilar competition will continue to increase as these products capture additional market share and that this will have a significant adverse impact on our co-promotion profits in the U.S. in future years. 71 OTHER REVENUE FROM ANTI-CD20 THERAPEUTIC PROGRAMS Other revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs consists of our share of pre-tax co-promotion profits from RITUXAN in Canada, royalty revenue on sales of LUNSUMIO outside the U.S. and royalty revenue on net sales of COLUMVI in the U.S, which became commercially available during the second quarter of 2023. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, including information regarding the pre-tax profit-sharing formula and its impact on future revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. CONTRACT MANUFACTURING, ROYALTY AND OTHER REVENUE Contract manufacturing, royalty and other revenue is summarized as follows: CONTRACT MANUFACTURING REVENUE We record contract manufacturing revenue primarily from amounts earned under contract manufacturing agreements with our strategic customers. For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in contract manufacturing revenue was primarily driven by higher volumes due to the timing of batch production, which includes batches related to LEQEMBI that we began recognizing in the first quarter of 2023 upon the accelerated approval of LEQEMBI in the U.S. As part of the 2020 sale of our Hillerød, Denmark manufacturing operations to FUJIFILM, we provided FUJIFILM with certain minimum batch production commitment guarantees, including batches related to our contract manufacturing arrangements. As of December 31, 2023, these batch commitments have been satisfied and we expect that our contract manufacturing revenue will be lower in 2024, compared to 2023, as we are no longer supplying contract manufacturing customers in this manner. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Eisai, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. ROYALTY AND OTHER REVENUE Royalty and other revenue primarily reflects the royalties we receive from net sales on products related to patents that we have out-licensed, as well as royalty revenue on biosimilar products from our license arrangements with Samsung Bioepis and our 50.0% share of LEQEMBI product revenue, net and cost of sales, including royalties, as we are not the principal. For additional information on our collaborative arrangements with Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. RESERVES FOR DISCOUNTS AND ALLOWANCES Revenue from product sales is recorded net of reserves established for applicable discounts and allowances, including those associated with the implementation of pricing actions in certain international markets where we operate. These reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales and are classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if the amount is payable to our customer) or a liability (if the amount is payable to a party other than our customer). These estimates reflect our historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. Actual amounts may ultimately differ from our estimates. If actual results vary, we adjust these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the period of adjustment. 72 Reserves for discounts, contractual adjustments and returns that reduced gross product revenue are summarized as follows: For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, reserves for discounts and allowances as a percentage of gross product revenue were 32.0%, 30.1% and 28.6%, respectively. CONTRACTUAL ADJUSTMENTS Contractual adjustments primarily relate to Medicaid and managed care rebates in the U.S., pharmacy rebates, co-payment (copay) assistance, VA, 340B discounts, specialty pharmacy program fees and other government rebates or applicable allowances. For 2023 compared to 2022, the decrease in contractual adjustments was primarily due to lower government rebates in the U.S. as a result of a contract pharmacy change made during the first quarter of 2023 related to our Interferons, partially offset by higher managed care and Medicaid rebates in the U.S. and higher government rebates in rest of world. DISCOUNTS Discounts include trade term discounts and wholesaler incentives. For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in discounts was primarily driven by higher purchase and volume discounts for biosimilars. RETURNS Product return reserves are established for returns made by wholesalers. In accordance with contractual terms, wholesalers are permitted to return product for reasons such as damaged or expired product. The majority of wholesaler returns are due to product expiration. Provisions for estimated product returns are recognized in the period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to product sales. For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in returns was primarily driven by higher return rates in the U.S. For additional information on our revenue reserves, please read Note 5, Revenue, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 73 COST AND EXPENSE A summary of total cost and expense is as follows: nm Not meaningful COST OF SALES, EXCLUDING AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Cost of sales, as a percentage of total revenue, were 25.8%, 22.4% and 19.2% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. PRODUCT COST OF SALES For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in product cost of sales was primarily due to unfavorable product mix from increased contract manufacturing revenue, MS product mix and higher idle capacity charges, partially offset by a decrease in excess and obsolescence inventory charges in 2023. Contract manufacturing revenue includes LEQEMBI inventory produced for Eisai, beginning in the first quarter of 2023 upon the accelerated approval of LEQEMBI in the U.S. Cost of sales as a percentage of revenue was adversely affected by LEQEMBI batches due to minimal margins. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in excess and obsolescence inventory charges as 2022 included a write-off of approximately $275.0 million during the first quarter of 2022 of excess inventory and contractual commitments related to ADUHELM. As a result of our acquisition of Reata in September 2023 we recorded a fair value step-up adjustment related to the acquired inventory of SKYCLARYS of approximately $1.3 billion. This fair value step-up adjustment will be amortized to cost of sales within our consolidated statements of income when the inventory is sold, which is expected to be within approximately 3 years from the acquisition date. For the year ended December 31, 2023, amortization from the fair value step-up adjustment as a result of inventory sold during the fourth quarter was approximately $31.5 million. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Write Downs and Other Charges Inventory amounts written down as a result of excess, obsolescence or unmarketability totaled $124.4 million, $336.2 million and $167.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 74 For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded approximately $286.0 million of charges associated with the write-off of ADUHELM inventory and contractual commitments in excess of forecasted demand. We also recognized approximately $197.0 million related to Eisai's 45.0% share of inventory, idle capacity charges and contractual commitments in collaboration profit sharing/(loss reimbursement) within our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2022. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recorded approximately $165.2 million and $119.0 million, respectively, of aggregate gross idle capacity charges. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Eisai, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. ROYALTY COST OF SALES For 2023 compared to 2022, the decrease in royalty cost of sales was primarily due to lower royalties payable on lower sales of TYSABRI, partially offset by an increase in royalty cost of sales due to higher royalties payable on higher sales of VUMERITY and SKYCLARYS, which we began recognizing in the fourth quarter of 2023, subsequent to our acquisition of Reata. 75 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expense, as a percentage of total revenue, was 25.0%, 21.9% and 22.8% for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For 2023 compared to 2022, the increase in research and development was primarily due to approximately $197.0 million of equity-based compensation expense incurred as a result of our acquisition of Reata in 2023, an increase in spending for the development of LEQEMBI for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, litifilimab for the treatment of CLE and SLE, and TOFIDENCE, a tocilizumab biosimilar referencing ACTEMRA, as well as clinical trial close out costs incurred in 2023 of approximately $125.4 million. EARLY STAGE PROGRAMS 2023 vs. 2022 The increase in early stage programs was driven by an increase in costs associated with: • development of BIIB121 for the treatment of Angelman syndrome; • development of litifilimab for the treatment of CLE; • development of BIIB115 for the treatment of SMA; • development of BIIB091 for the treatment of MS; and • development of BIIB080 for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in costs associated with: • discontinuation of BIIB104 for the treatment of cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia; and • discontinuation of BIIB078 for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. LATE STAGE PROGRAMS 2023 vs. 2022 The decrease in late stage programs was driven by a decrease in costs associated with: • advancement of LEQEMBI from late stage to marketed upon the accelerated approval of LEQEMBI in the U.S.; • advancement of ZURZUVAE from late stage to marketed upon the approval of ZURZUVAE for PPD in the U.S.; • advancement of QALSODY from late stage to marketed upon the accelerated approval of QALSODY in the U.S.; and • advancement of LUNSUMIO from late stage to marketed upon the accelerated approval of LUNSUMIO in the U.S. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in costs associated with: • development of litifilimab for the treatment of SLE into late stage; and • development of TOFIDENCE, a tocilizumab biosimilar referencing ACTEMRA. MARKETED PROGRAMS 2023 vs. 2022 The increase in marketed programs was driven by an increase in costs associated with: • advancement of LEQEMBI from late stage to marketed upon the accelerated approval of LEQEMBI in the U.S.; • increased spend in ADUHELM primarily due to the change in our cost sharing arrangement with Eisai and clinical trial close out costs of approximately $103.0 million from the termination of our EMBARK and ENVISION studies; • advancement of ZURZUVAE from late stage to marketed upon the approval of ZURZUVAE for PPD in the U.S.; • increased spend in SKYCLARYS as a result of our acquisition of Reata in September 2023; and • advancement of QALSODY from late stage to marketed upon the accelerated approval of QALSODY in the U.S. 76 MILESTONE AND UPFRONT EXPENSE Research and development expense for 2023 includes: • $7.5 million charge to research and development expense in connection with a milestone payment to Ionis; and • $5.0 million charge to research and development expense in connection with exercising our option with Denali to license the ATV-enabled anti-amyloid beta program. Research and development expense for 2022 includes: • $37.0 million in charges to research and development expense in connection with milestone payments to Ionis; • $15.0 million charge to research and development expense in connection with the upfront payment associated with entering into our collaboration with Alectos Therapeutics Inc. in the second quarter of 2022; and • $10.0 million charge to research and development expense in connection with the upfront payment associated with entering into our collaboration with Alcyone Therapeutics in the fourth quarter of 2022. Research and development expense is reported above based on the following classifications. The development stage reported is based upon the program status when incurred. Therefore, the same program could be reflected in different development stages in the same year. • Research and discovery: represents costs incurred to support our discovery research and translational science efforts. • Early stage programs: are programs in Phase 1 or Phase 2 development. • Late stage programs: are programs in Phase 3 development or in registration stage. • Marketed products: includes costs associated with product lifecycle management activities including, if applicable, costs associated with the development of new indications for existing products. • Other research and development costs: A significant amount of our research and development costs consist of indirect costs incurred in support of overall research and development activities and non-specific programs, including activities that benefit multiple programs, such as management costs, as well as depreciation, information technology and facility-based expenses. These costs are considered other research and development costs in the table above and are not allocated to a specific program or stage. For several of our programs, the research and development activities are part of our collaborative and other relationships. Our costs reflect our share of the total costs incurred. For the year ended December 31, 2023, other research and development costs also includes approximately $197.0 million of equity-based compensation expense incurred as a result of our acquisition of Reata in September 2023. Excluding any milestone and upfront payments, we expect our core research and development expense to decrease in 2024, while continuing to invest in our pipeline. This is primarily due to the continued realization of our cost savings initiatives and the one-time costs incurred from our acquisition of Reata in September 2023 of approximately $197.0 million. We intend to continue committing significant resources to targeted research and development opportunities where there is a significant unmet need and where a drug candidate has the potential to be highly differentiated. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 77 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE For 2023 compared to 2022, selling, general and administrative expense increased by approximately 6.1% primarily due to the recognition of approximately $196.4 million in equity-based compensation expense related to our acquisition of Reata in September 2023. Additionally, we incurred transaction and integration-related expense of approximately $34.6 million related to this acquisition. The increase in selling, general and administrative expense was also due to a $31.0 million obligation to Eisai related to the termination of the co-promotion agreement for our MS products in Japan during 2023 and approximately $11.5 million of accelerated depreciation, associated with exiting a leased property, recognized during the second quarter of 2023. The increases were partially offset by the impact of cost-reduction measures realized during 2023. We expect selling, general and administrative costs to continue to decline in 2024 due to the continued realization of our cost savings initiatives and the one-time costs incurred from our acquisition of Reata in 2023 of approximately $196.4 million. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Eisai, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS Our amortization expense is based on the economic consumption and impairment of intangible assets. Our most significant amortizable intangible assets are related to TYSABRI, AVONEX, SPINRAZA, VUMERITY and SKYCLARYS, which was obtained as part of our acquisition of Reata in September 2023. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For 2023 compared to 2022, the decrease i n amortization and impairment of acquired intangible assets was primarily due to higher impairment charges in 2022 of approximately $119.6 million, compared to no impairment charges in 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2022 , amortization and impairment of acquired intangible assets reflects the impact of a $119.6 million impairment charge related to vixotrigi ne (BIIB074) for the potential treatment of DPN. Amortization of acquired intangible assets, excluding impairment charges, totaled $240.6 million, $246.3 million and $252.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease in amortization of acquired intangible assets, excluding impairment charges, over the three years was primarily due to a lower rate of amortization for acquired intangible assets. For additional information on the amortization and impairment of our acquired intangible assets, please read Note 7, Intangible Assets and Goodwill , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. COLLABORATION PROFIT SHARING/(LOSS REIMBURSEMENT) Collaboration profit sharing/(loss reimbursement) primarily includes Samsung Bioepis' 50.0% share of the profit or loss related to our biosimilars 2013 commercial agreement with Samsung Bioepis. In the third quarter of 2023 we began recognizing collaboration profit sharing/(loss reimbursement) related to Sage's 50.0% share of income and expense in the U.S. related to ZURZUVAE for PPD. During 2022 we recognized Eisai's 45.0% share of income and expense in the U.S. related to the ADUHELM Collaboration Agreement. Beginning January 1, 2023, Eisai receives only a tiered royalty based on net sales of ADUHELM, and will no longer share global profits and losses. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recognized net profit-sharing expense of $223.5 million and $217.4 million, respectively, to reflect Samsung Bioepis' 50.0% sharing of the net collaboration profits. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recognized net reductions to our operating expense of approximately $4.7 million to reflect Sage's 50.0% share of net collaboration losses in the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized net reductions to our operating expense of approximately $224.7 million to reflect Eisai's 45.0% share of net collaboration losses in the U.S. for ADUHELM. For additional information on our collaboration and license arrangements with Samsung Bioepis, Sage and Eisai, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 78 (GAIN) LOSS ON FAIR VALUE REMEASUREMENT OF CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION For the year ended December 31, 2022, the changes in fair value of our contingent consideration obligations were primarily due to the discontinuation of further development efforts related to vixotrigine for the potential treatment of TGN and DPN, resulting in a reduction of our contingent consideration obligations of approximatel y $195.4 million, reducing the remaining fair value of vixotrigine to zero, as well as changes in the interest rates used to revalue our contingent consideration liabilities. For additional information on our IPR&D intangible assets, please read Note 7, Intangible Assets and Goodwill , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. RESTRUCTURING CHARGES 2023 FIT FOR GROWTH RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM In 2023 we initiated additional cost saving measures as part of our Fit for Growth program to reduce operating costs, while improving operating efficiency and effectiveness. The Fit for Growth program is expected to generate approximately $1.0 billion in gross operating expense savings and $800.0 million in net operating expense savings by 2025, some of which will be reinvested in various initiatives. The Fit for Growth program is currently estimated to include net headcount reductions of approximately 1,000 employees and we expect to incur restructuring charges ranging from approximately $260.0 million to $280.0 million. Total charges incurred from our 2023 cost saving initiatives are summarized as follows: Other Costs: includes costs associated with items such as asset abandonment and write-offs, facility closure costs, pretax gains and losses resulting from the termination of certain leases, employee non-severance expense, consulting fees and other costs. REATA INTEGRATION Following the close of our Reata acquisition, we implemented an integration plan designed to realize operating synergies through cost savings and avoidance. These amounts are primarily related to severance and are expected to be paid by the end of 2024. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we recognized approximately $30.4 million of net pre-tax restructuring charges related to employee severance costs. 2022 COST SAVING INITIATIVES In December 2021 and May 2022 we announced our plans to implement a series of cost-reduction measures during 2022. These savings are being achieved through a number of initiatives, including reductions to our workforce, the substantial elimination of our commercial ADUHELM infrastructure, deprioritization of certain research and development programs, the consolidation of certain real estate locations and operating efficiencies across our selling, general and administrative and research and development functions. Charges related to our 2022 cost saving initiatives were substantially incurred during 2022 with remaining payments expected to be made through 2026. 79 Total charges incurred from our 2022 cost saving initiatives are summarized as follows: (1) Amounts reflect a gain recorded during the third quarter of 2022 of approximately $5.3 million related to the partial termination of a portion of our lease located at 300 Binney Street. For additional information on our 300 Binney Street lease modification, please read Note 12, Leases , to these consolidated financial statements. For additional information on our cost saving initiatives, please read Note 4, Restructuring, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. GAIN ON SALE OF BUILDING In September 2022 we completed the sale of our building and land parcel located at 125 Broadway for an aggregate sales price of approximately $603.0 million, which is inclusive of a $10.8 million tenant allowance. This sale resulted in a pre-tax gain on sale of approximately $503.7 million, net of transaction costs, which is reflected within gain on sale of building in our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2022. Simultaneously, with the close of this transaction we leased back the building for a term of approximately 5.5 years, which resulted in the recognition of approximately $168.2 million in a new lease liability and right-of-use asset recorded within our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2022. The sale and immediate leaseback of this building qualified for sale and leaseback treatment and is classified as an operating lease. For additional information on our 125 Broadway sale and leaseback transaction, please read Note 11, Property, Plant and Equipment and Note 12, Leases , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET For 2023 compared to 2022, the change in other (income) expense, net primarily reflects a pre-tax gain recorded during 2022 of approximately $1.5 billion related to the sale of our 49.9% equity interest in Samsung Bioepis, partially offset by a pre-tax charge recorded during 2022 of approximately $900.0 million, plus settlement fees and expenses, related to a litigation settlement agreement to resolve a qui tam litigation relating to conduct prior to 2015. Additionally, other (income) expense, net for 2023 reflects higher interest income driven by higher interest rates in 2023. NET (GAINS) LOSSES IN EQUITY SECURITIES For the year ended December 31, 2023, net unrealized and realized losses on our holdings in equity securities were approximately $270.0 million and $5.2 million, respectively, compared to net unrealized losses and realized (gains) losses of approximately $264.7 million and zero, respectively, in 2022. • The net unrealized losses recognized during the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily reflect a decrease in the aggregate fair value of our investments in Sage, Denali, Sangamo and Ionis common stock of approximately $248.5 million. • The net unrealized losses recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily reflect a decrease in the aggregate fair value of our investments in Denali and Sangamo common stock of approximately $278.0 million, partially offset by an increase in the fair value of Ionis and Sage common stock of approximately $27.3 million. INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE For the year ended December 31, 2023, net interest income was $29.6 million, compared to net interest expense of $157.3 million in 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher interest rates leading to greater interest income earned on our investments in 2023, compared to 2022. For 2024 compared to 2023, we anticipate an increase in net interest expense as a result of lower cash balances leading to lower interest income due to the funding of our acquisition of Reata. For additional information on the sale of our equity interest in Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 3, Dispositions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 80 For additional information on the litigation settlement agreement, please read Note 18, Other Consolidated Financial Statement Detail , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. INCOME TAX PROVISION Our effective tax rate fluctuates from year to year due to the global nature of our operations. The factors that most significantly impact our effective tax rate include changes in tax laws, variability in the allocation of our taxable earnings among multiple jurisdictions, the amount and characterization of our research and development expense, the levels of certain deductions and credits, acquisitions and licensing transactions. For 2023 compared to 2022, the decrease in our effective tax rate was driven by the impact of the non-cash changes in the value of our equity investments, the impact of Fit for Growth related expenses and Reata acquisition-related expenses, as well as the combined net unfavorable tax rate impacts in 2022 related to a litigation settlement agreement, the sale of our equity interest in Samsung Bioepis, the impact of a Neurimmune valuation allowance and an international reorganization to align with global tax developments. The change also benefits from the resolution of an uncertain tax matter during the first quarter of 2023 related to tax credits. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For additional information on the litigation settlement agreement, please read Note 18, Other Consolidated Financial Statement Detail , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For additional information on our income taxes, uncertain tax positions and income tax rate reconciliation, please read Note 17, Income Taxes , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. EQUITY IN (INCOME) LOSS OF INVESTEE, NET OF TAX In February 2012 we entered into a joint venture agreement with Samsung BioLogics establishing an entity, Samsung Bioepis, to develop, manufacture and market biosimilar products. In April 2022 we completed the sale of our 49.9% equity interest in Samsung Bioepis to Samsung BioLogics. Following the sale of Samsung Bioepis we no longer recognize gains or losses associated with Samsung Bioepis' results of operations and amortization related to basis differences. Prior to this sale, we recognized our share of the results of operations related to our investment in Samsung Bioepis under the equity method of accounting one quarter in arrears when the results of the entity became available, which was reflected as equity in (income) loss of investee, net of tax in our consolidated statements of income. We also recognized amortization on certain basis differences resulting from our November 2018 investment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized net income on our investment of $2.6 million, reflecting our share of Samsung Bioepis' operating profits, net of tax, totaling $17.0 million offset by amortization of basis differences totaling $14.4 million. This amount reflects our share of results prior to the sale of Samsung Bioepis as the results are recognized one quarter in arrears. For additional information on the sale of our equity interest in Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 3, Dispositions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS, NET OF TAX Our consolidated financial statements include the financial results of a variable interest entity, Neurimmune, as we determined that we were the primary beneficiary. In November 2023 we notified Neurimmune of our decision to terminate the Neurimmune Agreement. Subsequent to the termination, we reconsidered our relationship with Neurimmune and determined that we were no longer the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity. As a result, we recorded a net gain on the deconsolidation of 81 Neurimmune of approximately $3.0 million, which was recorded in other (income) expense, net within our consolidated statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2023. For 2023 compared to 2022, the change in net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax, was primarily due to an increase in a valuation allowance of approximately $85.0 million recorded in the first quarter of 2022. For additional information on the valuation allowance, deconsolidation and our collaboration agreement with Neurimmune, please read Note 20, Investments in Variable Interest Entities, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our financial condition is summarized as follows: nm Not meaningful OVERVIEW We have historically financed and expect to continue to fund our operating and capital expenditures primarily through cash flow earned through our operations, as well as our existing cash resources. We believe that generic and biosimilar competition for many of our key products, the continued overall decline of our MS business and our investments in the launch of key new products and the development of our pipeline will have a significant adverse impact on our future cash flow from operations. We believe that our existing funds, when combined with cash generated from operations and our access to additional financing resources, if needed, are sufficient to satisfy our operating, working capital, strategic alliance, milestone payment, capital expenditure and debt service requirements for the foreseeable future. In addition, we may choose to opportunistically return cash to shareholders and pursue other business initiatives, including acquisition and licensing activities. We may also seek additional funding through a combination of new collaborative agreements, strategic alliances and additional equity and debt financings or from other sources should we identify a significant new opportunity. On September 26, 2023 , we completed the acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding shares of Reata for $6.6 billion and $983.9 million for outstanding equity awards. This transaction was funded with cash on hand and the issuance of a $1.0 billion term loan. Additionally, we paid approximately $459.9 million to settle outstanding debt obligations acquired as part of our acquisition of Reata. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 82 For additional information on certain risks that could negatively impact our financial position or future results of operations, please read Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included in this report. LIQUIDITY WORKING CAPITAL Working capital is defined as current assets less current liabilities. Our working capital was $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2023, compared to $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2022. The change in working capital reflects a decrease in total current assets of approximately $2,931.9 million and an increase in total current liabilities of approximately $161.5 million. The changes in total current assets and total current liabilities were primarily driven by the following: CURRENT ASSETS • $3,842.9 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities primarily due to consideration paid for our acquisition of Reata as well as the early repayment of $350.0 million in outstanding debt obligations associated with our Reata acquisition ; • $235.6 million decrease in other current assets primarily due to the receipt of $812.5 million from Samsung BioLogics related to the sale of Samsung Bioepis, partially offset by the final deferred payment of $437.5 million now due within one year; and • $1,183.0 million increase in inventory primarily due to the fair value step-up adjustment for acquired inventory from our acquisition of Reata. CURRENT LIABILITIES • $88.2 million decrease in accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments; • $102.2 million increase in accrued expense and other primarily reflecting accrued costs related to our acquisition of Reata; and • $150.0 million increase in current portion of debt due to the short-term portion of our outstanding 2023 Term Loan related to our acquisition of Reata. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For additional information on our 2023 Term Loan, please read Note 13, Indebtedness , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For additional information on the sale of our equity interest in Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 3, Dispositions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES As of December 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaling approximately $1.0 billion compared to approximately $5.6 billion as of December 31, 2022. The decrease in the balance was primarily due to the use of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities to fund our acquisition of Reata. In connection with our acquisition of Reata we paid approximately $6.6 billion for the issued and outstanding shares of Reata and $983.9 million related to Reata's outstanding equity awards, inclusive of employer taxes. Additionally, we assumed a payable to Blackstone of approximately $300.0 million related to a one-time contract termination fee to eliminate potential future royalty obligations related to SKYCLARYS, which was triggered as part of the change in control provision under Reata's funding agreement with Blackstone. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to these consolidated financial statements included in this report. Until required for another use in our business, we typically invest our cash reserves in bank deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. and foreign government instruments, overnight reverse repurchase agreements and other interest-bearing marketable debt instruments in accordance with our investment policy. It is our policy to mitigate credit risk in our cash reserves and marketable securities by maintaining a well-diversified portfolio that limits the amount of exposure as to institution, maturity and investment type. We have experienced no significant limitations in our liquidity resulting from uncertainties in the banking sector. 83 The following table summarizes the fair value of our significant common stock investments in our strategic investment portfolio: (1) During 2023 we sold a portion of our Sangamo and Denali common stock. (2) During 2023 we sold our remaining shares of Ionis common stock. Our ability to liquidate our investments in Denali, Sage and Sangamo may be limited by the size of our interest, the volume of market related activity, our concentrated level of ownership and potential restrictions resulting from our status as a collaborator. Therefore, we may realize significantly less than the current value of such investments. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report . CASH FLOW The following table summarizes our cash flow activity: OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting our net income for: • non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization, impairment charges, unrealized (gain) loss on strategic investments and share-based compensation; • changes in operating assets and liabilities, which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash associated with transactions and when they are recognized in results of operations; and • (gains) losses on the disposal of assets, deferred income taxes, changes in the fair value of contingent payments associated with our acquisitions of businesses and acquired IPR&D. For 2023 compared to 2022, the change in net cash flow provided by operating activities was driven by changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily related to a lower inventory build in 2023 as compared to 2022, the favorable timing of customer payment receipts in 2023 and the unfavorable timing of U.S. federal tax payments in 2023. Operating cash flow in 2023 was also negatively impacted by the $393.4 million in equity-based compensation payments associated with the Reata acquisition. Operating cash flow in 2022 was also negatively impacted by the payment of of approximately $900.0 million, plus settlement fees and expenses, related to a litigation settlement agreement to resolve a qui tam litigation relating to conduct prior to 2015. INVESTING ACTIVITIES For 2023 compared to 2022, the change in net cash flow provided by (used in) investing activities was primarily due to a $6.9 billion payment made in 2023 for our acquisition of Reata, net of cash acquired, partially offset by higher net proceeds from the sales of marketable securities in the current period. Additionally, we received $582.6 million in 2022 related to the sale of one of our buildings. 84 FINANCING ACTIVITIES For 2023 compared to 2022, the change in net cash flow provided by (used in) financing activities was primarily due to the issuance of our 2023 Term Loans totaling $1.0 billion under our $1.5 billion term loan credit agreement which were used to partially fund our acquisition of Reata, partially offset by repayments of borrowings and debt premiums paid totaling $809.9 million. We had debt repayments of approximately $1.0 billion and share repurchases of $750.0 million during the same period in 2022. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. CAPITAL RESOURCES DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES LONG-TERM DEBT AND TERM LOAN CREDIT AGREEMENTS Our long-term obligations primarily consist of long-term debt related to our Senior Notes with final maturity dates ranging between 2025 and 2051. As of December 31, 2023, our outstanding balance related to long-term debt was $6,788.2 million. In connection with our acquisition of Reata in September 2023 we entered into a $1.5 billion term loan credit agreement. On the closing date of the Reata acquisition we drew $1.0 billion from the 2023 Term Loan, comprised of a $500.0 million floating rate 364-day tranche and a $500.0 million floating rate three-year tranche. The remaining unused commitment of $500.0 million was terminated. During the fourth quarter of 2023 we repaid $350.0 million of the 364-day tranche. As of December 31, 2023, we had $650.0 million outstanding under the 2023 Term Loan, of which $150.0 million was outstanding under the 364-day tranche and $500.0 million was outstanding under the three-year tranche. 2020 REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY In January 2020 we entered into a $1.0 billion, five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility under which we are permitted to draw funds for working capital and general corporate purposes. The terms of the revolving credit facility include a financial covenant that requires us not to exceed a maximum consolidated leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2023, we had no outstanding borrowings and were in compliance with all covenants under this facility. For a summary of the fair values of our outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, please read Note 8, Fair Value Measurements, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. For additional information on our Senior Notes, 2023 Term Loan and credit facility please read, Note 13, Indebtedness , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAMS In October 2020 our Board of Directors authorized our 2020 Share Repurchase Program, which is a program to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of our common stock. Our 2020 Share Repurchase Program does not have an expiration date. All share repurchases under our 2020 Share Repurc hase Program will be retired. Under our 2020 Share Repurchase Program, we repurchased and retired approximately 3.6 million and 6.0 million shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately $750.0 million and $1.8 billion during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 , respectively. There were no share repurchases of our common stock during the year ended December 31, 2023. Approximately $2.1 billion remained available under our 2020 Share Repurchase Program as of December 31, 2023. CAPITAL EXPENDITURES In the fourth quarter of 2021 we began construction of a new gene therapy manufacturing facility in RTP, North Carolina to support our gene therapy pipeline across multiple therapeutic areas. The new manufacturing facility will be approximately 197,000 square feet with an estimated total investment of approximately $195.0 million. As we continue to advance our research and development prioritization efforts, which includes refocusing our investment in gene therapy, we are evaluating several alternative uses for this facility. 85 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023, excluding amounts related to uncertain tax positions, funding commitments, contingent development, regulatory and commercial milestone payments, contingent payments and contingent consideration related to our business combinations, as described below. (1) We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. Amounts reflected within the table above detail future minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31 for each of the periods presented. In addition to the minimum rental commitments, these leases may require us to pay additional amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses. (2) Obligations are presented net of sublease income expected to be received for our vacated portions of our Weston, Massachusetts facility and other facilities throughout the world. (3) In connection with our acquisition of Reata in September 2023 we assumed operating lease commitments, including the responsibility for a single-tenant, built-to-suit building with a total net present value of rental expense of approximately $154.4 million over the next 15 years. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. (4) Long-term debt obligations are related to our 2015 Senior Notes, our 2020 Senior Notes and our 2021 Exchange Offer Senior Notes, including principal and interest payments, and our 2023 Term Loan. For additional information on our long-term debt obligations, please read Note 13, Indebtedness , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. (5) Purchase and other obligations include $419.5 million related to the remaining payments on the Transition Toll Tax and $31.6 million related to the fair value of net liabilities on derivative contracts. ROYALTY PAYMENTS TYSABRI We are obligated to make contingent payments of 18.0% on annual worldwide net sales of TYSABRI up to $2.0 billion and 25.0% on annual worldwide net sales of TYSABRI that exceed $2.0 billion. Royalty payments are recognized as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. SPINRAZA We make royalty payments to Ionis on annual worldwide net sales of SPINRAZA using a tiered royalty rate between 11.0% and 15.0%, which are recognized as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Ionis, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. QALSODY We make royalty payments to Ionis on annual worldwide net sales of QALSODY using a tiered royalty rate between 11.0% and 15.0%, which are recognized as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Ionis, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. VUMERITY We make royalty payments to Alkermes on worldwide net sales of VUMERITY using a royalty rate of 15.0%, which are recognized as cost of sales in our consolidated statements of income. Royalties payable on net sales of VUMERITY are subject, under certain circumstances, to tiered minimum annual payment requirements for a period of five years following FDA approval. 86 In October 2019 we entered into a new supply agreement and amended our license and collaboration agreement with Alkermes for VUMERITY. We have elected to initiate a technology transfer and, following a transition period, to manufacture VUMERITY or have VUMERITY manufactured by a third party we have engaged in exchange for paying an increased royalty rate to Alkermes on any portion of future worldwide net commercial sales of VUMERITY that is manufactured by us or our designee. For additional information on our collaboration arrangement with Alkermes, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. SKYCLARYS In connection with our acquisition of Reata in September 2023 we assumed additional contractual obligations related to royalty payments. Reata entered into agreements to pay royalties on future sales of SKYCLARYS, which will cumulatively range in the low- to mid-single digits. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. CONTINGENT DEVELOPMENT, REGULATORY AND COMMERCIAL MILESTONE PAYMENTS Based on our development plans as of December 31, 2023, we could trigger potential future milestone payments to third parties of up to approximately $5.1 billion, including approximately $0.9 billion in development milestones, approximately $0.4 billion in regulatory milestones and approximately $3.8 billion in commercial milestones, as part of our various collaborations, including licensing and development programs. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable upon achievement of certain development, regulatory or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones was not considered probable as of December 31, 2023, such contingencies have not been recorded in our financial statements. Amounts related to contingent milestone payments are not considered contractual obligations as they are contingent on the successful achievement of certain development, regulatory or commercial milestones. During the fourth quarter of 2023 we accrued a milestone payment due to Sage of $75.0 million upon the first commercial sale of ZURZUVAE for PPD in the U.S., which was recorded within intangible assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets, and subsequently paid in January 2024. If certain clinical and commercial milestones are met, we may pay up to approximately $109.0 million in milestones in 2024 under our current agreements. OTHER FUNDING COMMITMENTS As of December 31, 2023, we have several ongoing clinical studies in various clinical trial stages. Our most significant clinical trial expenditures are to CROs. The contracts with CROs are generally cancellable, with notice, at our option. We recorded accrued expense of approximately $47.2 million in our consolidated balance sheets for expenditures incurred by CROs as of December 31, 2023. We have approximately $669.0 million in cancellable future commitments based on existing CRO contracts as of December 31, 2023. TAX RELATED OBLIGATIONS We exclude liabilities pertaining to uncertain tax positions from our summary of contractual obligations as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2023, we have approximately $172.0 million of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we have accrued income tax liabilities of approximately $419.5 million and $558.0 million, respectively, under the Transition Toll Tax. Of the amounts accrued as of December 31, 2023, approximately $185.4 million is expected to be paid within one year. The Transition Toll Tax is being paid in installments over an eight--year period, which started in 2018, and will not accrue interest. OTHER OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any relationships with entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. As such, we are not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. We consolidate variable interest entities if we are the primary beneficiary. 87 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For a discussion of new accounting standards  please read Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. LEGAL MATTERS For a discussion of legal matters as of December 31, 2023, please read Note 21, Litigation, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expense and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis we evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity and the amount of revenue and expense. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Other significant accounting policies are outlined in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. REVENUE RECOGNITION We recognize revenue when our customer obtains control of promised goods or services, in an amount that reflects the consideration which we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We recognize revenue following the five-step model prescribed under FASB ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers : (i) identify contract(s) with a customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognize revenue when (or as) we satisfy the performance obligations. PRODUCT REVENUE In the U.S., we sell our products primarily to wholesale and specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies. In other countries, we sell our products primarily to wholesale distributors, hospitals, pharmacies and other third-party distribution partners. These customers subsequently resell our products to health care providers and patients. In addition, we enter into arrangements with health care providers and payors that provide for government-mandated or privately-negotiated discounts and allowances related to our products. Product revenue is recognized when the customer obtains control of our product, which occurs at a point in time, typically upon delivery to the customer. We expense incremental costs of obtaining a contract as and when incurred if the expected amortization period of the asset that we would have recognized is one year or less or the amount is immaterial. RESERVES FOR DISCOUNTS AND ALLOWANCES Product revenue is recorded net of reserves established for applicable discounts and allowances that are offered within contracts with our customers, health care providers or payors, including those associated with the implementation of pricing actions in certain of the international markets in which we operate. Our process for estimating reserves established for these variable consideration components do not differ materially from our historical practices. Product revenue reserves, which are classified as a reduction in product revenue, are generally characterized in the following categories: discounts, contractual adjustments and returns. These reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales and are classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if the amount is payable to our customer) or a liability (if the amount is payable to a party other than our customer). Our estimates of reserves established for variable consideration are calculated based upon a consistent application of our methodology utilizing the expected value method. These estimates reflect our historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. The transaction price, which includes variable consideration reflecting the impact of discounts and allowances, may be subject to constraint and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of the amount of the 88 cumulative revenue recognized will not occur in a future period. Actual amounts may ultimately differ from our estimates. If actual results vary, we adjust these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the period of adjustment. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, a 10.0% change in our discounts, contractual adjustments and reserves would have resulted in a decrease of our pre-tax earnings by approximately $345.5 million and $338.6 million, respectively. In addition to discounts, rebates and product returns, we also maintain certain customer service contracts with distributors and other customers in the distribution channel that provide us with inventory management, data and distribution services, which are generally reflected as a reduction of revenue. To the extent we can demonstrate a separable benefit and fair value for these services we classify these payments in selling, general and administrative expense in our consolidated statements of income. For additional information on our revenue, please read Note 5, Revenue , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS, INCLUDING IPR&D When we purchase a business, the acquired IPR&D is measured at fair value, capitalized as an intangible asset and tested for impairment at least annually, as of October 31, until commercialization, after which time the IPR&D is amortized over its estimated useful life. If we acquire an asset or group of assets that do not meet the definition of a business under applicable accounting standards, the acquired IPR&D is expensed on its acquisition date. Future costs to develop these assets are recorded to research and development expense as they are incurred. We have acquired, and expect to continue to acquire, intangible assets through the acquisition of biotechnology companies or through the consolidation of variable interest entities. These intangible assets primarily consist of technology associated with human therapeutic products, IPR&D product candidates and priority review vouchers. When significant identifiable intangible assets are acquired, we generally engage an independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date. Management will determine the fair value of less significant identifiable intangible assets acquired. Discounted cash flow models are typically used in these valuations, and these models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: • estimating the timing of and expected costs to complete the in-process projects; • projecting regulatory approvals; • estimating future cash flow from product sales resulting from completed products and in process projects; and • developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates by project. We believe the fair values assigned to the intangible assets acquired are based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions given available facts and circumstances as of the acquisition dates. If these projects are not successfully developed, the sales and profitability of the company may be adversely affected in future periods. Additionally, the value of the acquired intangible assets may become impaired. No assurance can be given that the underlying assumptions used to estimate expected project sales, development costs or profitability, or the events associated with such projects, will transpire as estimated. INVENTORY At each reporting period we review our inventories for excess or obsolescence and write-down obsolete or otherwise unmarketable inventory to its estimated net realizable value. The determination of obsolete or excess inventory requires management to make estimates based on assumptions about the future demand of our products, product expiration dates, estimated future sales and our general future plans. If customer demand subsequently differs from our forecasts, we may be required to record additional charges for excess inventory. Although we believe that the assumptions we use in estimating inventory write-downs are reasonable, no assurance can be given that significant future changes in these assumptions or changes in future events and market conditions could result in different estimates. During 2022 and 2021 we wrote-off excess inventory of $275.0 million and $120.0 million, respectively, related to ADUHELM. 89 IMPAIRMENT AND AMORTIZATION OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS Long-lived assets to be held and used include property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets, including IPR&D and trademarks. Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. We review our intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment annually, as of October 31, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. When performing our impairment assessment, we calculate the fair value using the same methodology as described above under Acquired Intangible Assets, including IPR&D . If the carrying value of our acquired IPR&D exceeds its fair value, then the intangible asset is written down to its fair value. Changes in estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of our acquired IPR&D could result in an impairment. Impairments are recorded within amortization and impairment of acquired intangible assets in our consolidated statements of income. Based on our most recent impairment assessment we incurred impairment charges of approximately $119.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, mainly related to the discontinuation of IPR&D programs. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we had no impairment charges. For additional information on our impairments, please read Note 7, Intangible Assets and Goodwill , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Our most significant intangible assets are our acquired and in-licensed rights and patents. Acquired and in-licensed rights and patents primarily relate to our acquisition of all remaining rights to TYSABRI. We amortize the intangible assets related to our marketed products using the economic consumption method based on revenue generated from the products underlying the related intangible assets. An analysis of the anticipated lifetime revenue of our marketed products is performed annually during our long-range planning cycle and whenever events or changes in circumstances would significantly affect anticipated lifetime revenue of the relevant products. For additional information on the impairment charges related to our long-lived assets during 2023, 2022 and 2021, please read Note 7, Intangible Assets and Goodwill, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. INCOME TAXES We prepare and file income tax returns based on our interpretation of each jurisdiction’s tax laws and regulations. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Upon our election in the fourth quarter of 2018 to record deferred taxes for GILTI, we have included amounts related to GILTI taxes within temporary difference. Significant management judgment is required in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. In making this determination, under the applicable financial accounting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and the effects of tax planning strategies. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates, we adjust our estimates in future periods and we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which could materially impact our consolidated financial position and results of operations. We account for uncertain tax positions using a “more likely than not” threshold for recognizing and resolving uncertain tax positions. We evaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and consider various factors including, but not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, the effective settlement of matters subject to audit, information obtained during in process audit activities and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We adjust the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts surrounding the uncertain positions. Our liabilities for uncertain tax positions can be relieved only if the contingency becomes legally extinguished, through either payment to the taxing authority or the expiration of the statute of limitations, the recognition of the benefits associated with the position meet the “more likely than not” threshold or the liability becomes effectively settled through the examination process. We consider matters to be effectively settled once the taxing authority has completed all of its required or expected examination procedures, including all appeals and administrative reviews, we have no plans to appeal or litigate any aspect of the tax position and we believe that it is highly unlikely that the taxing authority would examine 90 or re-examine the related tax position. We also accrue for potential interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Business combinations are recorded using the acquisition method of accounting. The results of operations of the acquired company are included in our results of operations beginning on the acquisition date, and assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized on the acquisition date at their respective fair values. Any excess of consideration transferred over the net carrying value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date is recognized as goodwill. We use the multi-period excess earnings method, which is a form of the income approach, utilizing post-tax cash flow and discount rates in estimating the fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired when allocating the purchase consideration paid for the acquisition. The estimates of the fair value of identifiable intangible assets involve significant judgment by management and include assumptions with measurement uncertainty, such as the amount and timing of projected cash flow, long-term sales forecasts, discount rates and additionally for IPR&D intangible assets, the timing and probability of regulatory and commercial success. We use the net realizable value method in estimating the fair value of acquired finished goods and work-in-process inventory. Raw materials acquired are valued using the replacement cost method. Transaction and restructuring costs related to business combinations are expensed as incurred. The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in certain cases may be subject to revision based on the final determination of fair value during a period of time not to exceed 12 months from the acquisition date. If we determine the assets acquired do not meet the definition of a business, the transaction will be accounted for as an asset acquisition rather than a business combination.