********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our common stock involves various risks.  When considering an investment in the Company, one should carefully consider all of the risk factors described below, as well as other information included and incorporated by reference in this annual report.  There may be additional risks, uncertainties and matters not listed below, that we are unaware of, or that we currently consider immaterial.  Any of these may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, thus, the value of an investment in the Company. OPERATIONAL RISKS We operate in a highly competitive environment, which may adversely affect our ability to succeed.  Our investments in new technologies, equipment, and facilities may not provide competitive returns. We operate in a highly competitive environment for marketing oilfield products and services and securing equipment.  Our ability to continually provide competitive products and services can impact our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services, maintain market share, and negotiate acceptable contract terms with our customers.  In order to be competitive, we must provide new and differentiating technologies, reliable products and services that perform as expected and that create value for our customers. We continue to invest in new technologies, equipment, and facilities.  Our ability to defend, maintain or increase prices for our products and services is in part dependent on the industry’s capacity relative to customer demand, and on our ability to differentiate the value delivered by our products and services from our competitors’ products and services.  Managing development of competitive technology and new product introductions on a forecasted schedule and at a forecasted cost can impact our financial results.  If we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive and innovative technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, or as a result of the energy transition to lower carbon emitting technology, or if competing technology accelerates the obsolescence of any of our products or services, any competitive advantage that we may hold, and in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to effectively and timely execute our energy transition strategy could have an adverse effect on the demand for our technologies and services. Our future success may depend upon our ability to effectively execute on our energy transition strategy.  Our strategy depends on our ability to develop additional innovative technologies and work with our customers and partners to advance new energy solutions such as carbon capture utilization and storage, hydrogen energy, geothermal, and other integrated solutions.  If the energy transition landscape changes faster than anticipated or faster than we can transition or if we fail to execute our energy transition strategy as planned, demand for our technologies and services or access to credit could be adversely affected. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 14 The implementation of our plan to restructure our corporate organization and operating segments may not achieve the results we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business. In the second half of 2022, we announced a plan to undertake certain corporate realignments and restructure our four operating segments to focus on two operating segments, OFSE and IET, in order to simplify and streamline our organizational structure, and create better flexibility and economies of scale across the two operating segments.  These restructuring activities may be more costly than anticipated, and could lead to the diversion of management’s attention from other business priorities.  As a result of these or any other factors, we may not realize the anticipated benefits associated with the restructuring plan.  There can be no assurance that the restructuring plan will result in cost savings or will materially increase our profitability.  Even if the restructuring plan generates the benefits that we have anticipated, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that occur as a result of the restructuring, which could adversely affect our business. Disruptions in our supply chain, the high cost or unavailability of raw materials, equipment, and supplies essential to our business could adversely affect our ability to execute our operations on a timely basis. Our manufacturing operations are dependent on having sufficient raw materials, component parts and manufacturing capacity, including labor, available to meet our manufacturing plans on a timely basis, at a reasonable cost while minimizing inventories.  Disruptions within our supply chain resulting from factors including, but not limited to, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, rising interest rates, and shortages in labor supply, have had and may continue to have an impact on our business and reputation.  As a result of these or any other factors, our ability to execute our operations on a timely basis, including our ability to meet our manufacturing plans and revenue goals, control costs, and avoid shortages or over-supply of raw materials and component parts, could be adversely affected. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively and our operations could be adversely affected. Our operations and future success depend on our ability to recruit, train, and retain key personnel.  People are a key resource to developing, manufacturing, and delivering our products and providing technical services to our customers around the world.  A competent, well-trained, highly skilled, motivated, and diverse workforce has a positive impact on our ability to attract and retain business.  Difficulties in hiring or retaining key employees, or the unexpected loss of experienced employees resulting in the depletion of our institutional knowledge base, could have an adverse impact on our business performance, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations.  Additionally, successfully executing organizational change as we restructure the Company, management transitions at leadership levels of the Company, and motivation and retention of key employees is critical to our business success.  Factors that may affect our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of qualified employees include employee morale, our reputation, competition from other employers, and availability of qualified individuals.  Other factors that have and could continue to impact our workforce is changes to our office environments, the adoption of new work models, and our requirements and/or expectations about when or how often certain employees work on-site or remotely which may not meet the expectations of our employees. Our business could be impacted by both geopolitical and terrorism threats, including armed conflict, in countries where we or our customers do business and our business operations may be impacted by civil unrest and/or government expropriations. Geopolitical and terrorism threats continue to grow in a number of key countries where we currently or may in the future do business.  Geopolitical and terrorism threats, including armed conflict among countries, has had and could in the future lead to, among other things, a loss of our investment in the country, adverse impact to our employees, and impairment of our or our customers’ ability to conduct operations. Further, the broader consequences of geopolitical and terrorism threats, which may include further sanctions that prohibit our ability to do business in specific countries, embargoes, supply chain disruptions, the potential inability to service our remaining performance obligations and potential contractual breaches and litigation, regional instability and geopolitical shifts, and the extent of any such threats effect on our business and results of operations as well as the global economy, cannot be predicted. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 15 Certain geopolitical conflicts, such as between Russia and Ukraine, have had and may continue to have the effect of heightening many other risks disclosed in our public filings, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, adverse effects on global macroeconomic conditions; increased volatility in the price and demand of oil and natural gas, increased exposure to cyber attacks; limitations in our ability to implement and execute our business strategy; risks to employees and contractors that we have in the region; disruptions in global supply chains; exposure to foreign currency fluctuations; potential nationalizations and assets seizures; constraints or disruption in the capital markets and our sources of liquidity; our potential inability to service our remaining performance obligations and potential contractual breaches and litigation. Control of oil and natural gas reserves by national oil companies may impact the demand for our services and products and create additional risks in our operations . Much of the world’s oil and natural gas reserves are controlled by national oil companies.  National oil companies may require their contractors to meet local content requirements or other local standards, such as conducting our operations through joint ventures with local partners that could be difficult or undesirable for us to meet.  The failure to meet the local content requirements and other local standards may adversely impact our operations in those countries.  In addition, our ability to work with national oil companies is subject to our ability to negotiate and agree upon acceptable contract terms. Our operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses. The products that we manufacture and the services that we provide are complex, and the failure of our equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may greatly increase our customers’ costs.  In addition, many of these products are used in inherently hazardous industries, such as the offshore oilfield business.  These hazards include blowouts, explosions, unplanned or uncontrolled releases, nuclear-related events, fires, collisions, capsizings, and severe weather conditions.  We may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards.  Our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks.  The occurrence of a significant event, against which we were not fully insured or indemnified or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The potential physical or transition risks posed by climate change could adversely affect our operations and those of our customers. There is increasing concern over risks posed by climate change and related environmental sustainability matters.  The physical risks of climate change can include extreme variability in weather patterns such as increased frequency and severity of significant weather events (e.g. flooding, hurricanes and tropical storms), natural hazards (e.g., increased wildfire risk), rising mean temperature and sea levels, and long-term changes in precipitation patterns (e.g. drought, desertification, or poor water quality).  Such effects have the potential to affect business continuity and operating results, particularly at facilities in coastal areas or areas prone to chronic water scarcity, and could disrupt our operations or those of our customers or suppliers, including through direct damage to physical assets and indirect impacts from supply chain disruption and market volatility.  While we evaluate and incorporate potential ranges of physical risks, it is difficult to predict with certainty the timing, frequency or severity of such events, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  See also “Seasonal and weather conditions, including severe weather associated with climate change, could adversely affect demand for our services and operations.” Additionally, transitioning to a low-carbon economy will likely require extensive policy, legal, technology, and market changes.  There is increased focus by governments and our customers, investors and other stakeholders on climate change, sustainability, and energy transition matters.  Negative attitudes toward or perceptions of our industry or fossil fuel products and their relationship to the environment have led governments, non-governmental organizations, and companies to implement initiatives to conserve energy and promote the use of alternative energy sources, which may reduce the demand for and production of oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate, and thus reduce future demand for our products and services.  In addition, initiatives by investors and financial institutions to limit funding to companies in fossil fuel-related industries may adversely affect our liquidity or access to capital. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 16 Seasonal and weather conditions, including severe weather associated with climate change, could adversely affect demand for our services and operations. Variation from normal weather patterns, such as cooler or warmer summers and winters, can have a significant impact on demand for our services and operations.  Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured.  For example, extreme winter conditions in Canada or the North Sea may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, in those areas and result in a loss of revenue.  Repercussions of severe or unseasonable weather conditions, including as a result of climate change, may include evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; weather-related damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations; weather-related damage to our facilities and project work sites; inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; decreases in demand for oil and natural gas during unseasonably warm winters; and loss of productivity.  As a result of the above repercussions or any others, demand for our services and operations may be adversely affected. The partial or complete loss of GE as a customer or supplier, as well as contracts with our aeroderivative joint venture (the “Aero JV”) with GE may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We currently have an extensive commercial relationship with GE.  Although we have a long-term contractual framework in place with GE, if GE were to discontinue or reduce its business with the Company, fail to perform its obligations under existing contracts or experience significant disruptions, including under the intellectual property related agreements with GE, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition to our contracts and arrangements with GE as a direct customer and supplier, we and GE formed the Aero JV in 2019.  The Aero JV is jointly controlled by GE and us, and as a result, realizing the benefits of this joint venture depends on the continued cooperation between the parties.  In addition, the business and financial performance of the Aero JV may be adversely affected if GE were to fail to perform its obligations under its contracts with the Aero JV.  We in turn use certain products purchased through the Aero JV for the manufacture of various end products, and therefore, failure of the Aero JV to perform for any reason could prevent us from fulfilling our contractual obligations, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business has and may continue to be adversely affected by a public health emergency or outbreak of a contagious disease or virus, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. In the past, the markets have experienced volatility in oil demand due to the economic impacts of public health emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic.  If demand for our products and services decline as a result of a public health emergency, the utilization of our assets and the prices we are able to charge our customers for our products and services could decline.  The continued spread of COVID-19 or a similar pandemic could result in further instability in the markets and decreases in commodity prices resulting in further adverse impacts on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the outbreak and spread of contagious diseases such as COVID-19 and measures to contain the disease may adversely impact our workforce and operations, operations of our customers, and those of our vendors and suppliers.  The extent to which these public health emergencies, including the COVID-19 pandemic, may continue to adversely impact our business depends on future developments, which are highly uncertain and unpredictable, depending on the severity and duration of the emergency and effectiveness of actions taken globally to contain or mitigate its effects.  There is considerable uncertainty regarding such containment or mitigation measures and potential future measures which may result in labor disruptions, employee attrition, and could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain qualified employees, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 17 CREDIT AND CUSTOMER CONTRACTING RISKS Providing services on an integrated, turnkey, or fixed price basis could require us to assume additional risks. We may choose to enter into integrated or turnkey contracts with our customers that require us to provide services and equipment outside of our core business.  Providing services on an integrated or turnkey basis may also subject us to additional risks, such as costs associated with unexpected delays or difficulties in drilling operations, project management interface risk, and risks associated with subcontracting and consortium arrangements.  These integrated or turnkey contracts may be fixed price contracts that do not allow us to recover for cost over-runs unless they are directly caused by the customer. We may not be able to satisfy technical requirements, testing requirements or other specifications required under our service contracts and equipment purchase agreements. Our products are used in deepwater, and other harsh environments, and severe service applications.  Our contracts with customers and customer requests for bids typically set forth detailed specifications or technical requirements for our products and services, which may also include extensive testing requirements.  In addition, scrutiny of the offshore drilling industry has resulted in more stringent technical specifications for our products and more comprehensive testing requirements for our products to ensure compliance with such specifications.  We cannot provide assurance that our products, including products supplied through joint ventures, will be able to satisfy the specifications or that we will be able to perform the full-scale testing necessary to prove that the product specifications are satisfied in future contract bids or under existing contracts, or that the costs of modifications to our products to satisfy the specifications and testing will not adversely affect our results of operations. We sometimes enter into consortium or similar arrangements for certain projects, which could impose additional costs and obligations on us. We sometimes enter into consortium or similar arrangements for certain projects.  Under such arrangements, each party is responsible for performing a certain scope of work within the total scope of the contracted work, and the obligations expire when all contractual obligations are completed.  The failure or inability, financially or otherwise, of any of the parties to perform their obligations could impose additional costs and obligations on us.  These factors could result in unanticipated costs to complete the project, liquidated damages or contract disputes. Our contracts may be terminated early in certain circumstances. Our contracts with customers generally may be terminated by the customer for convenience, default, or extended force majeure (which could include inability to perform due to COVID-19 or a similar pandemic).  Termination for convenience may require the payment of an early termination fee by the customer, but the early termination fee may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract.  Termination by the customer for default or extended force majeure due to events outside of our control generally will not require the customer to pay an early termination fee. Our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected if our customers terminate some of our contracts, and we are unable to secure new contracts on a timely basis and on substantially similar terms, if payments due under our contracts are suspended for an extended period of time, or if a number of our contracts are renegotiated.  Our remaining performance obligation ("RPO") is comprised of unfilled customer orders for products and product services (expected life of contract sales for product services).  The actual amount and timing of revenues earned may be substantially different than the reported RPO.  The total dollar amount of the Company’s RPO as of December 31, 2022 was $27.8 billion. The credit risks of having a concentrated customer base in the energy industry could result in losses. Having a concentration of customers in the energy industry may impact our overall exposure to credit risk as our customers may be similarly affected by prolonged changes in economic and industry conditions.  Some of our customers may experience extreme financial distress as a result of falling commodity prices and may be forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws, which may affect our ability to recover any amounts due from such customers.  Furthermore, countries that rely heavily upon income from hydrocarbon exports have been and Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 18 may in the future be negatively and significantly affected by a drop in oil prices, which could affect our ability to collect from our customers in these countries, particularly national oil companies.  Laws in some jurisdictions in which we will operate could make collection difficult or time consuming.  We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and do not expect to require collateral in support of our trade receivables.  While we maintain reserves for potential credit losses, we cannot assure such reserves will be sufficient to meet write-offs of uncollectible receivables or that our losses from such receivables will be consistent with our expectations.  Additionally, in the event of a bankruptcy of any of our customers, we may be treated as an unsecured creditor and may collect substantially less, or none, of the amounts owed to us by such customer. Our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services and ability to pay amounts owed us could be impacted by the reduction of their cash flow and the ability of our customers to access equity or credit markets. Our customers’ access to capital is dependent on their ability to access the funds necessary to develop economically attractive projects based upon their expectations of future energy prices, required investments, and resulting returns.  Limited access to external sources of funding has caused and may continue to cause customers to reduce their capital spending plans to levels supported by internally generated cash flow.  In addition, a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities or the lack of available debt or equity financing may impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us and could cause us to increase our reserve for credit losses. LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS Compliance with and changes in laws could be costly and could affect operating results.  In addition, government disruptions could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. We conduct business in more than 120 countries that can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate.  In particular, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations.  Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate.  Pursuant to their laws and regulations, governments may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions. Compliance-related issues could limit our ability to do business in certain countries and impact our earnings or result in investigations leading to fines, penalties or other remedial measures.  Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations, and legal proceedings and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, in particular, changes in export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate.  In addition, changes and uncertainty in the political environments in which our businesses operate can have a material effect on the laws, rules, and regulations that affect our operations.  Government disruptions may also delay or halt the granting and renewal of permits, licenses and other items required by us and our customers to conduct our business.  The continued success of our global business and operations depends, in part, on our ability to continue to anticipate and effectively manage these and other political, legal and regulatory risks. Our failure to comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other similar laws could have a negative impact on our ongoing operations. Our ability to comply with the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and various other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws depends on the success of our ongoing compliance program, including our ability to successfully manage our agents, distributors and other business partners, and supervise, train, and retain competent employees.  We could be subject to sanctions and civil and criminal prosecution, fines and penalties, as well as legal expenses and reputational harm in the event of a finding of a violation of any of these laws by us or any of our employees. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 19 Anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws could have adverse consequences for us. Non-compliance with anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism financing and various other financial laws may subject us to sanctions, civil and criminal prosecution, fines and penalties, as well as legal expenses and potential reputational harm.  We cannot be sure our programs and controls are or will remain effective to ensure our compliance with all applicable anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing laws and regulations. Changes in tax laws, tax rates, tariffs, adverse positions taken by taxing authorities, and tax audits could impact operating results. Changes in tax laws, tax rates, tariffs, changes in interpretation of tax laws, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities, and the ability to fully utilize tax loss carryforwards and tax credits could impact our operating results, including additional valuation allowances for deferred tax assets. We could be subject to litigation claims arising out of our products and services which could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The technical complexities of our operations expose us to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks and we are from time to time subject to litigation in the U.S. and in foreign countries, for example claims involving services or equipment such as personal injury or loss of life, product failure (including as a result of a cyber attack) or damage to or destruction of property, employment and labor, customer privacy, or regulatory risks.  While we have insurance coverage against operating hazards to the extent deemed prudent by our management and to the extent insurance is available, our insurance may not cover all expenses related to litigation claims arising from our business.  Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate.  We may therefore incur significant expenses defending any such suit or government charge and may be required to pay amounts or otherwise change our operations in ways that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon, misappropriated or otherwise violated its intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our products and services may infringe upon, misappropriate or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others or be challenged on that basis.  Regardless of the merits, any such claims may result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business.  Resolving such claims could increase our costs, including through royalty payments to acquire licenses, if available, from third parties and through the development of replacement technologies.  If a license to resolve a claim were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Compliance with, and rulings and litigation in connection with, environmental regulations and the environmental impacts of our operations may adversely affect our business and operating results. We and our business are subject to extensive domestic and international environmental and safety regulations.  In addition to environmental and safety regulatory compliance obligations, we may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury, property damage, and human health risks due to exposure of hazardous substances or processes at our current or former facilities.  We may be impacted by material changes in environmental and safety regulations or subject to substantial liability for environmental impacts.  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and associated expenditures, including but not limited to our capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, are forecasted and may be inconsistent based on multiple variables.  Our compliance cost forecasts may be substantially different from actual results, which may be affected by factors such as: changes in law that impose restrictions on air or other emissions, wastewater management, waste disposal, hydraulic fracturing, or wetland and land use practices; changes in standards of enforcement of existing environmental laws and regulations; a change in our share of any remediation costs or other unexpected, adverse outcomes with respect to sites where we have been named as a potentially responsible party, and may include Superfund sites; the discovery of other sites, or discovery of additional issues at existing sites, where additional expenditures may be required to comply with environmental legal obligations; and the accidental discharge of hazardous materials. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 20 Investor and public perception related to the Company’s environment, social, and governance ("ESG") performance as well as current and future ESG reporting requirements may affect our business and our operating results. Increasing focus on ESG factors has led to enhanced interest in, and review of performance results by investors and other stakeholders, and the potential for litigation and reputational risk.  We are committed to transparent and comprehensive reporting of our sustainability performance and report under standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative, the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB"), and recommendations issued by the Financial Stability Board's Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD").  Our voluntary disclosures of ESG data are evaluated and rated by various organizations that assess corporate ESG performance.  Over the past few years there has also been increased investor demand for ESG investing opportunities, and the ESG ratings are used by some stakeholders to inform their investment and voting decisions.  Unfavorable ESG ratings, or our inability to meet the ESG standards set by specific investors, may lead to unfavorable sentiment toward Baker Hughes, which could have a negative impact, among other things, on our stock price and cost of capital. Regulatory requirements related to ESG or sustainability reporting have been adopted in the EU that apply to financial market participants.  In the U.S., such regulations have been issued related to pension investments in California, and for the responsible investment of public funds in Illinois.  Additional regulation is pending at the SEC and in other states.  We expect regulatory requirements related to ESG matters to continue to expand globally.  We may be affected by our ability to meet evolving and expanding emissions reporting requirements and by investor and public perception of our reporting and performance related to voluntary climate standards. To achieve our stated emission reduction goals, we have implemented internal decarbonization projects and may also need to rely on external factors, such as the greater deployment of carbon reduction and removal technologies and adoption of government policies that we expect would accelerate the adoption of energy transition technologies. There have been policy responses to support the energy transition in the U.S. with the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act.  In addition, the 2022 energy disruptions have increased energy prices and raised energy security concerns, which may force many governments to reassess energy transition strategies, extending the timeline to ensure adequate and reasonably priced energy supplies.  It is difficult to predict with certainty how these policy, economic, and energy security issues will impact the energy transition. Our failure or perceived failure to pursue or fulfill our reductions and elimination of carbon equivalent emissions commitments within the timelines we announce could have a negative impact on investor sentiment, ratings outcomes for evaluating our approach to ESG matters, our stock price and cost of capital and expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation, among other material adverse impacts. International, national, and state governments and agencies continue to evaluate and promulgate legislation and regulations that are focused on reducing greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions.  Compliance with GHG emission regulations applicable to our or our customers' operations may have significant implications that could adversely affect our business and operating results in the fossil-fuel sectors. In the United States, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has taken steps to regulate GHG emissions as air pollutants under the U.S. Clean Air Act ("CAA") of 1970, as amended.  The EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Rule requires monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions from, among others, certain mobile and stationary GHG emission sources in the oil and natural gas industry, which in turn may include data from our equipment or operations.  In addition, the U.S. government has proposed rules in the past setting GHG emission standards for, or otherwise aimed at reducing GHG emissions from, the oil and natural gas industry.  International  developments focused on restricting GHG emissions include the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which includes implementation of the Paris Agreement and the Kyoto Protocol by the signatories; the Glasgow Climate Pact; the European Union Emission Trading System; Article 8 of the European Union Energy Efficiency Directive and the United Kingdom’s Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting ("SECR"); the EU's proposed carbon border adjustment mechanism ("CBAM").  Caps or fees on carbon emissions, including in the U.S., have been and may continue to be established and the cost of such caps or fees could disproportionately affect the fossil-fuel sectors.  The implementation of these agreements and other existing or future regulatory mandates, may adversely affect the demand for our products and services, require us or our customers to reduce GHG emissions or impose taxes on us or our customers, all of which could have a material effect on our results of operations. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 21 Voluntary initiatives to reduce GHG emissions, as well as increased climate change awareness, may result in increased costs for the oil and gas industry to curb greenhouse gas emissions and could have an adverse impact on demand for oil and natural gas. There are various corporate and non-governmental initiatives that are focused on voluntary reductions of GHG emissions.  These developments, and public perception relating to climate change, may shift demand from oil and natural gas towards an investment in relatively lower carbon emitting energy sources and alternative energy solutions.  If, for example, new energy sources become more competitive than oil and natural gas globally, it could have a material effect on our results of operations. Changes in laws or regulations relating to data privacy and security, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws or regulations, or contractual or other obligations relating to data privacy or security, may adversely affect our business and operating results. We may have access to sensitive, confidential, proprietary or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is or may become subject to various data privacy and security laws, regulations, standards, contractual obligations or customer-imposed controls in the jurisdictions in which we operate.  The legal and regulatory environment related to data privacy and security is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future.  These laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied differently over time and from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and it is possible that they will be interpreted and applied in ways that may adversely affect our business and operating results. In the U.S., various federal and state regulators, including governmental agencies like the Federal Trade Commission, have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws, regulations and standards concerning personal information, privacy and data security.  Internationally, laws, regulations and standards in many jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, retention, security, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal information or other data.  These various and evolving federal, state and international laws, regulations and standards can differ significantly from one another and, given our global footprint, this may significantly complicate our compliance efforts and impose considerable costs, such as costs related to organizational changes and implementing additional protection technologies, which are likely to increase over time.  In addition, compliance with applicable requirements may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies, distract management or divert resources from other initiatives and projects, all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results.  Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with any applicable federal, state or international laws, regulations, standards, or contractual or other obligations, relating to data privacy and security could result in damage to our reputation and our relationship with our customers, as well as proceedings or litigation by governmental agencies, customers or individuals, which could subject us to significant fines, sanctions, awards, penalties or judgments, all of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. TECHNOLOGY RISKS An inability to obtain, maintain, protect, defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights will be completely adequate.  Our intellectual property rights may fail to provide us with significant competitive advantages, particularly in foreign jurisdictions where we have not invested in an intellectual property portfolio or that do not have, or do not enforce, strong intellectual property rights.  The weakening of protection of our trademarks, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights could also adversely affect our business. We are a party to a number of licenses that give us rights to intellectual property that is necessary or useful to our business.  Our success depends in part on the ability of our licensors to obtain, maintain, protect, defend and sufficiently enforce the licensed intellectual property rights we have commercialized.  Without protection for the intellectual property rights we own or license, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect our competitive business position and harm our business products.  Also, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or renew from third parties the licenses to use intellectual property rights we need in the future, and there is no assurance that such licenses can be obtained on reasonable Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 22 terms.  We would be adversely affected in the event that any such license agreement was terminated without the right for us to continue using the licensed intellectual property. Increased cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, and more sophisticated and targeted cyber attacks and other security incidents, pose risks to our systems, data and business, and our relationships with customers and other third parties. In the course of conducting our business, we may hold or have access to sensitive, confidential, proprietary or personal data or information belonging to us, our employees or third parties, including customers, partners or suppliers.  Increased cybersecurity vulnerabilities and threats, and more sophisticated and targeted cyber attacks and other security incidents, pose risks to our and our customers’, partners’, suppliers’ and third-party service providers’ systems, data, and business, and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our and our employees’ and customers’ data.  We utilize various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate our exposure including the engagement of third party security experts for risk assessments and program enhancements, including ransomware vulnerability assessments, cybersecurity tabletop exercises, and internal phishing awareness campaigns.  While we attempt to mitigate these risks, we remain vulnerable to cyber attacks and other security incidents, including ransomware incidents.  Given our global footprint, the large number of customers, partners, suppliers and service providers with which we do business, and the increasing sophistication and complexity of cyber attacks, a cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period without detection.  Any investigation of a cyber attack or other security incident would be inherently unpredictable and it would take time before the completion of any investigation and before there is availability of full and reliable information.  During such time we would not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, all or any of which would further increase the costs and consequences of a cyber attack or other security incident.  We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against, respond to, and recover from any cyber attacks and other security incidents.  As cyber attacks continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities.  In addition, our remediation efforts may not be successful.  The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition to our own systems, we use third-party service providers, who in turn may also use third-party providers, to process certain data or information on our behalf.  Due to applicable laws and regulations or contractual obligations, we may be held responsible for cybersecurity incidents attributed to our service providers to the extent affecting information we share with them.  Although we contractually require these service providers to implement and maintain reasonable security measures, we cannot control third parties and cannot guarantee that a security breach will not occur in their systems. Despite our and our service providers’ efforts to protect our data and information, we and our service providers have been and may in the future be vulnerable to security breaches, ransomware attacks, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, malware, employee errors and/or malfeasance or similar events, including those perpetrated by criminals or nation-state actors, that could potentially lead to the compromise, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of data or information, improper use of our systems, defective products, loss of access to our data, production downtimes and operational disruptions.  In addition, a cyber attack or any other significant compromise or breach of our data security, media reports about such an incident, whether accurate or not, or, under certain circumstances, our failure to make adequate or timely disclosures to the public, law enforcement agencies or affected individuals following any such event, whether due to delayed discovery or a failure to follow existing protocols, could adversely impact our operating results and result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, harm to our relationships with customers, partners, suppliers and other third parties, distraction to our management, remediation or increased protection costs, significant litigation or regulatory action, fines and penalties.  Given the increased prevalence of customer-imposed cybersecurity controls and other related contractual obligations towards customers or other third parties, a cyber attack or other security incident also could result in breach of contract or indemnity claims against us by customers or other counterparties. While we currently maintain cybersecurity insurance, such insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to cybersecurity breaches or attacks, failures or other data security-related incidents, and we cannot be certain that cyber insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that an insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim.  The successful Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 23 assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. INDUSTRY AND MARKET RISKS Volatility of oil and natural gas prices can adversely affect demand for our products and services. Prices of oil and gas products are set on a commodity basis.  As a result, the volatility in oil and natural gas prices can impact our customers’ activity levels and spending for our products and services.  Current energy prices are important contributors to cash flow for our customers and their ability to fund exploration and development activities.  Expectations about future prices and price volatility are important for determining future spending levels. Demand for our products and services is subject to factors beyond our control and depends substantially on expenditures by our customers.  Changes in the global economy could impact our customers’ spending levels and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our services and products is highly correlated with global economic growth and substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by our customers.  Across our products and services, customer demand may be reduced due to global economic factors beyond our control, including but not limited to inflation, rising interest rates, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, and declining availability of credit.  Specifically, for example, past oil and natural gas industry downturns have resulted in reduced demand for oilfield products and services and lower expenditures by our customers, which in the past has resulted, and may in the future result, in a prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices that may require us to record asset impairments, and we could experience decreased revenue, decreased profitability and reduction in cash flows.  Such potential impairment charges and adverse operating metrics could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Supply of oil and natural gas is subject to factors beyond our control, which may adversely affect our operating results. Productive capacity for oil and natural gas is dependent on our customers’ decisions to develop and produce oil and natural gas reserves and on the regulatory environment in which our customers and we operate.  The ability to produce oil and natural gas can be affected by the number and productivity of new wells drilled and completed, as well as the rate of production and resulting depletion of existing wells. Currency fluctuations or devaluations may impact our operating results. Fluctuations or devaluations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can impact our revenue and our costs of doing business and create volatility, as well as the costs of doing business of our customers. Changes in economic and/or market conditions may impact our ability to borrow and/or cost of borrowing. The condition of the capital markets and equity markets in general may affect the price of our common stock and our ability to obtain financing, if necessary.  If our credit rating is downgraded, it could increase borrowing costs under credit facilities and commercial paper programs, as well as increase the cost of renewing or obtaining, or make it more difficult to renew, obtain, or issue new debt financing. RISKS RELATED TO OUR STOCK The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our shareholders. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations.  In addition, the trading volume in our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur.  If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, our shareholders may be unable to sell their shares of our Class A common stock at or above their purchase price, if at all.  We cannot assure our shareholders that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 24 future.  Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock include: variations in our quarterly operating results; failure to meet our earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or our industry; additions or departures of our executive officers and other key management personnel; adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; actions by shareholders; changes in market valuations of similar companies; speculation in the press or investment community; changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; adverse publicity about our industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and general market and economic conditions. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that might be considered favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a shareholder may consider favorable by permitting our Board of Directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for shareholder proposals and nominations, and placing limitations on convening shareholder meetings.  These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals, delay, or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for certain litigation that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. Pursuant to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or (4) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine.  Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our common stock is deemed to have notice of and consented to the foregoing provision.  The forum selection clause in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation may limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us. This exclusive forum provision applies to certain state law claims and will not apply to claims under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  In addition, our shareholders will not be deemed to have waived our compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.  This choice of forum provision may limit a shareholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data contained herein. We are an energy technology company with a broad and diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain.  We operate through our two business segments: Oilfield Services & Equipment ("OFSE") and Industrial & Energy Technology ("IET").  We sell products and services primarily in the global oil and gas markets, within the upstream, midstream, and downstream segments. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Baker Hughes was successful in 2022, with key commercial successes and solid margin improvements in OFSE.  Commercially in IET, orders performance in LNG and new energy hit new highs and are poised to remain strong into 2023.  In 2022, we had a record year for LNG equipment orders, and achieved significant growth in new energy orders compared to 2021.  Within OFSE, Subsea & Surface Pressure Systems also achieved a strong orders year compared to 2021. Operationally, our performance for 2022 was mixed.  During the year, we experienced several operational challenges across our organization most notably cost inflation, supply chain delays, impact of foreign exchange, and the suspension of our activities in Russia.  Our performance improved over the second half of 2022 as supply chain challenges moderated, we saw increased activity primarily in OFSE, and we were able to achieve price improvements that collectively more than offset these operational challenges. In 2022, we generated revenue of $21.2 billion, compared to $20.5 billion in 2021.  The increase in revenue was primarily driven by higher volume in OFSE.  Operating income in 2022 was $1,185 million compared to $1,310 million in 2021.  The decrease in operating income was driven by higher restructuring, impairment and other charges, partially offset by higher segment operating income in OFSE.  Income before income taxes was $22 million in 2022, and included other non-operating losses of $911 million and net interest expense of $252 million.  Included in our other non-operating loss was a $451 million loss from the sale of part of the OFSE Russia business, and $265 million of unrealized net losses from marking our investments in ADNOC Drilling and C3 AI to fair value. In the third quarter of 2022, we announced a reorganization of the Company to create two operating segments, OFSE and IET.  This has kicked off a major transformation effort across the organization, including key management changes, which will fundamentally improve the way the Company operates.  This reorganization is designed to simplify and streamline our organizational structure, and create better flexibility and economies of scale across the two operating segments.  For OFSE, one area of focus will be right sizing OFSE through facility rationalization, removing management layers, and integrating multiple functions and capabilities.  For IET, we expect commercial and technological benefits from closer integration as well as the benefit of cost out programs.  We expect these changes to improve the long-term optionality and growth opportunities for Baker Hughes as our markets and customers continue to evolve. Baker Hughes remains committed to a flexible capital allocation policy that balances returning cash to shareholders and investing in growth opportunities.  We increased our quarterly dividend in the fourth quarter of 2022 by one cent to $0.19 per share.  For the full year of 2022, we returned a total of $1.6 billion to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.  We continue to invest in the Baker Hughes portfolio through strategic acquisitions and early-stage new energy investments.  In 2022, we made several strategic acquisitions that will complement our current portfolio.  Such acquisitions include the Power Generation division of BRUSH Group (“BRUSH”).  BRUSH is an established equipment manufacturer that specializes in electric power generation and management for the industrial and energy sectors, which will complement the IET existing portfolio.  Other transactions include the acquisitions of Quest Integrity, which will enhance our inspection capabilities, and AccessESP, which broadens our electrical submersible pump ("ESP") technology portfolio.  New energy investments include Mosaic Materials and NET Power.  In 2022, we entered into an agreement to acquire Altus Intervention, a leading international provider of well intervention services and downhole technology, which will enhance OFSE's existing portfolio.  The Altus transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2023.  We also Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 29 reached an agreement with GE for the sale of our Nexus Controls business.  GE will continue to provide Baker Hughes with GE’s MarkTM controls products currently in the Nexus Controls portfolio, and we will be the exclusive supplier and service provider of such GE products for our oil and gas customers’ control needs.  The transaction is expected to close in mid-2023. The invasion of Ukraine by Russia and the sanctions imposed in response to this crisis have increased the level of economic and political uncertainty.  As we announced in March 2022, we suspended any new investments for our Russia operations.  Over the course of 2022, changes to sanctions continued to make ongoing operations increasingly complex and significantly more challenging.  As a result, we took actions to suspend substantially all of our operational activities related to Russia across the Company including suspending work on equipment and service contracts in Russia, and we completed the sale of part of our OFSE Russia business to local management in the fourth quarter of 2022.  Russia represented approximately 2%, 5%, and 5% of our total revenue in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. As we look ahead to 2023, the global economy is expected to experience some challenges under the weight of inflationary pressures and tightening monetary conditions.  Despite recessionary pressures in some of the world’s largest economies, we maintain a positive outlook for the energy sector.  With years of under investment now being amplified by recent geopolitical factors, global spare capacity for oil and gas has deteriorated and will likely require years of investment growth to meet forecasted future demand.  For this reason, we continue to believe that we are in the early stages of a multi-year upturn in global activity and are poised to see a second consecutive year of strong growth in global upstream spending in 2023. We remain positive on the near term and long term prospects for the natural gas and LNG investment cycle.  Near term, we believe that the likely reopening of China, combined with Europe’s need to refill gas storage supplies, will play a critical role in keeping global gas and LNG markets tight.  Longer term, we remain optimistic on the structural growth outlook for natural gas and LNG as the world looks to lower emissions and displace the consumption of coal.  In addition to the strong growth in traditional oil and gas spending, we also believe that the Inflation Reduction Act in the U.S. and potential new legislation in Europe will support significant growth opportunities in new energy in 2023 and beyond. OUTLOOK Our business is exposed to a number of macro factors, which influence our outlook and expectations given the current volatile conditions in the industry.  All of our outlook expectations are purely based on the market as we see it today, and are subject to changing conditions in the industry. • OFSE North America activity: We expect North American spending to continue to improve in 2023, as compared to 2022, should commodity prices remain at current levels. • OFSE International activity: We expect spending outside of North America to experience strong growth in 2023, as compared to 2022, should commodity prices remain at current levels. • IET LNG projects: We remain optimistic on the LNG market long-term and view natural gas as a transition and destination fuel.  We continue to view the long-term economics of the LNG industry as positive. We have other businesses in our portfolio that are more correlated with various industrial metrics, including global GDP growth.  We also have businesses within our portfolio that are exposed to new energy solutions, specifically focused around reducing carbon emissions of energy and broader industry, including hydrogen, geothermal, carbon capture, utilization and storage, and energy storage.  We expect to see continued growth in these businesses as new energy solutions become a more prevalent part of the broader energy mix. Overall, we believe our portfolio is well positioned to compete across the energy value chain and deliver comprehensive solutions for our customers.  We remain optimistic about the long-term economics of the oil and gas industry, but we are continuing to operate with flexibility.  Over time, we believe the world’s demand for energy will continue to rise, and that hydrocarbons will play a major role in meeting the world's energy needs for the foreseeable future.  As such, we remain focused on delivering innovative, low-emission, and cost-effective solutions that deliver step changes in operating and economic performance for our customers. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 30 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The following discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity position as of and for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes of the Company. Our revenue is predominately generated from the sale of products and services to major, national, and independent oil and natural gas companies worldwide, and is dependent on spending by our customers for oil and natural gas exploration, field development and production.  This spending is driven by a number of factors, including our customers' forecasts of future energy demand and supply, their access to resources to develop and produce oil and natural gas, their ability to fund their capital programs, the impact of new government regulations and most importantly, their expectations for oil and natural gas prices as a key driver of their cash flows. Oil and Natural Gas Prices Oil and natural gas prices are summarized in the table below as averages of the daily closing prices during each of the periods indicated. (1) Energy Information Administration ("EIA") Europe Brent Spot Price per Barrel (2) EIA Cushing, OK WTI ("West Texas Intermediate") spot price (3) EIA Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Price per million British Thermal Unit Oil and natural gas prices increased during 2022 largely driven by supply constraints which has also been amplified as a result of recent geopolitical events. Outside North America, customer spending is most heavily influenced by Brent oil prices.  The average Brent oil prices increased to $100.93/Bbl in 2022 from $70.86/Bbl in 2021 and ranged from a low of $76.02/Bbl in December 2022, to a high of $133.18/Bbl in March 2022.  The average Brent oil prices increased to $70.86/Bbl in 2021 from $41.96/Bbl in 2020 and ranged from a low of $50.37/Bbl in January 2021, to a high of $85.76/Bbl in October 2021. In North America, customer spending is highly driven by WTI oil prices, which similarly to Brent oil prices, on average increased to $94.90/Bbl in 2022 from $68.14/Bbl in 2021, and ranged from a low of $71.05/Bbl in December 2022, to a high of $123.64/Bbl in March 2022.  WTI oil prices on average increased to $68.14/Bbl in 2021 from $39.16/Bbl in 2020, and ranged from a low of $47.47/Bbl in January 2021, to a high of $85.64/Bbl in October 2021. In North America, natural gas prices, as measured by the Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Price, averaged $6.45/mmBtu in 2022, representing a 66% increase over the prior year.  Throughout the year, Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Prices ranged from a high of $9.85/mmBtu in August 2022, to a low of $3.46/mmBtu in November 2022.  According to the U.S. Department of Energy, working natural gas in storage at the end of 2022 was 2,891 billion cubic feet ("Bcf"), which was 9.5%, or 304 Bcf, below the corresponding week in 2021.  Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Price averaged $3.89/mmBtu in 2021, representing a 92% increase over the prior year.  Throughout the year, Henry Hub Natural Gas Spot Prices ranged from a high of $23.86/mmBtu in February 2021, to a low of $2.43/mmBtu in April 2021.  According to the U.S. Department of Energy, working natural gas in storage at the end of 2021 was 3,226 billion cubic feet ("Bcf"), which was 6.8%, or 234 Bcf, below the corresponding week in 2020. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 31 Baker Hughes Rig Count The Baker Hughes rig counts are an important business barometer for the drilling industry and its suppliers.  When drilling rigs are active they consume products and services produced by the oil service industry.  Rig count trends are driven by the exploration and development spending by oil and natural gas companies, which in turn is influenced by current and future price expectations for oil and natural gas.  The counts may reflect the relative strength and stability of energy prices and overall market activity, however, these counts should not be solely relied on as other specific and pervasive conditions may exist that affect overall energy prices and market activity. We have been providing rig counts to the public since 1944.  We gather all relevant data through our field service personnel, who obtain the necessary data from routine visits to the various rigs, customers, contractors and other outside sources as necessary.  We base the classification of a well as either oil or natural gas primarily upon filings made by operators in the relevant jurisdiction.  This data is then compiled and distributed to various wire services and trade associations and is published on our website.  We believe the counting process and resulting data is reliable, however, it is subject to our ability to obtain accurate and timely information.  Rig counts are compiled weekly for the U.S. and Canada and monthly for all international rigs.  Published international rig counts do not include rigs drilling in certain locations, such as onshore China because this information is not readily available. Rigs in the U.S. and Canada are counted as active if, on the day the count is taken, the well being drilled has been started, but drilling has not been completed and the well is anticipated to be of sufficient depth to be a potential consumer of our drill bits.  In international areas, rigs are counted on a weekly basis and deemed active if drilling activities occurred during the majority of the week.  The weekly results are then averaged for the month and published accordingly.  The rig count does not include rigs that are in transit from one location to another, rigging up, being used in non-drilling activities including production testing, completion and workover, and are not expected to be significant consumers of drill bits. The rig counts are summarized in the table below as averages for each of the periods indicated. 2022 Compared to 2021 Overall the rig count was 1,749 in 2022, an increase of 28% as compared to 2021 due to an increase in activity in North America and internationally.  The rig count in North America increased 47% and the international rig count increased 13% in 2022 compared to 2021. Within North America, the increase was primarily driven by the U.S. rig count, which was up 51% on average when compared to the same period last year, and an increase in the Canada rig count, which was up 32% on average.  Internationally, the increase in the rig count was driven by increases in the Latin America region, Africa region, Middle East region, and Asia-Pacific region of 22%, 19%, 16%, and 8%, respectively. 2021 Compared to 2020 Overall the rig count was 1,366 in 2021, an increase of 1% as compared to 2020 due primarily to an increase in activity in North America partially offset by declines internationally.  The rig count in North America increased 17% and the international rig count decreased 9% in 2021 compared to 2020. Within North America, the increase was primarily driven by the Canadian rig count, which was up 48% on average when compared to the same period last year, and an increase in the U.S. rig count, which was up 10% on average.  Internationally, the decrease in the rig count was driven primarily by decreases in the Middle East region, Africa region, and Europe region of 21%, 10%, and 10%, respectively. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 32 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussions below relating to significant line items from our consolidated statements of income (loss) are based on available information and represent our analysis of significant changes or events that impact the comparability of reported amounts.  Where appropriate, we have identified specific events and changes that affect comparability or trends and, where reasonably practicable, have quantified the impact of such items.  In addition, the discussions below for revenue and cost of revenue are on a total basis as the business drivers for product sales and services are similar.  All dollar amounts in tabulations in this section are in millions of dollars, unless otherwise stated.  Certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers. Our results of operations are evaluated by the Chief Executive Officer on a consolidated basis as well as at the segment level.  The performance of our operating segments is primarily evaluated based on segment operating income (loss), which is defined as income (loss) before income taxes and before the following: net interest expense, net other non-operating income (loss), corporate expenses, restructuring, impairment and other charges, goodwill and inventory impairments, separation related costs, and certain gains and losses not allocated to the operating segments. In evaluating the segment performance, the Company uses the following: Volume: Volume is the increase or decrease in products and/or services sold period-over-period excluding the impact of foreign exchange and price.  The volume impact on profit is calculated by multiplying the prior period profit rate by the change in revenue volume between the current and prior period.  It also includes price, defined as the change in sales price for a comparable product or service period-over-period and is calculated as the period-over-period change in sales prices of comparable products and services. Foreign Exchange ("FX"): FX measures the translational foreign exchange impact, or the translation impact of the period-over-period change on sales and costs directly attributable to change in the foreign exchange rate compared to the U.S. dollar.  FX impact is calculated by multiplying the functional currency amounts (revenue or profit) with the period-over-period FX rate variance, using the average exchange rate for the respective period. (Inflation)/Deflation: (Inflation)/deflation is defined as the increase or decrease in direct and indirect costs of the same type for an equal amount of volume.  It is calculated as the year-over-year change in cost (i.e. price paid) of direct material, compensation and benefits, and overhead costs. Productivity: Productivity is measured by the remaining variance in profit, after adjusting for the period-over-period impact of volume and price, foreign exchange and (inflation)/deflation as defined above.  Improved or lower period-over-period cost productivity is the result of cost efficiencies or inefficiencies, such as cost decreasing or increasing more than volume, or cost increasing or decreasing less than volume, or changes in sales mix among segments.  This also includes the period-over-period variance of transactional foreign exchange, aside from those foreign currency devaluations that are reported separately for business evaluation purposes. Orders and Remaining Performance Obligations Our consolidated statements of income (loss) displays sales and costs of sales in accordance with SEC regulations under which “goods” is required to include all sales of tangible products and “services” must include all other sales, including other services activities.  For the amounts shown below, we distinguish between “equipment” and “product services,” where product services refers to sales under product services agreements, including sales of both goods (such as spare parts and equipment upgrades) and related services (such as monitoring, maintenance and repairs), which is an important part of our operations.  We refer to “product services” simply as “services” within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Orders : We recognized orders of $26.8 billion, $21.7 billion, and $20.7 billion in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.  We recognized OFSE orders of $14.1 billion, $11.8 billion, and $12.3 billion and IET orders of $12.7 billion, $9.9 billion, and $8.4 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  Within IET, Gas Technology Equipment orders were $6.4 billion, $3.9 billion, $3.0 billion, and Gas Technology Services orders were $3.0 billion, $2.9 billion, and $2.6 billion in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 33 Remaining Performance Obligations ("RPO"): As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to the unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) performance obligations was $27.8 billion and $23.6 billion, respectively.  As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, OFSE remaining performance obligations totaled $2.6 billion and $2.0 billion, and IET remaining performance obligations totaled $25.3 billion and $21.5 billion, respectively. Revenue and Operating Income Summarized financial information for the Company's segments is shown in the following tables. The following table presents Oilfield Services & Equipment revenue by geographic region: Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 34 The following table presents segment operating income through to net loss for the Company. (1) Inventory impairments are reported in "Cost of goods sold" of the consolidated statements of income (loss). Fiscal Year 2022 to Fiscal Year 2021 Revenue in 2022 was $21,156 million, an increase of $654 million, or 3%, from 2021.  This increase in revenue was largely a result of increased activity in OFSE, partially offset by a decline in IET.  OFSE increased $1,201 million and IET decreased $547 million. Total segment operating income in 2022 was $2,336 million, an increase of $330 million, or 16%, from 2021.  The increase was primarily driven by OFSE, which increased $371 million, partially offset by IET which decreased $42 million. Oilfield Services & Equipment OFSE 2022 revenue was $13,229 million, an increase of $1,201 million, or 10%, from 2021, primarily as a result of increased activity in North America and internationally, as evidenced by an increase in the global rig count.  North America revenue was $3,764 million in 2022, an increase of $860 million from 2021.  International revenue was $9,465 million in 2022, an increase of $341 million from 2021, primarily driven by growth in Latin America and the Middle East, partially offset by declines in the Russia Caspian and Europe regions. The year-over-year revenue was reduced by the removal of the subsea drilling systems ("SDS") business from the consolidated OFSE operations in the fourth quarter of 2021 due to the formation of a joint venture. OFSE 2022 segment operating income was $1,201 million, compared to $830 million in 2021.  The increase was primarily driven by higher volume and price, partially offset by logistics and commodity cost inflation. Industrial & Energy Technology IET 2022 revenue was $7,926 million, a decrease of $547 million, or 6%, from 2021.  The decrease was primarily driven by lower volume in both Gas Technology Equipment and Gas Technology Services, the impact from foreign currency translation, and supply chain delays in Gas Technology Services, partially offset by higher volume in Industrial Technology. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 35 IET 2022 segment operating income was $1,135 million, compared to $1,177 million in 2021.  The decrease in profitability was driven by lower volume, unfavorable foreign currency translation impact, higher research and development costs, and inflationary pressure, partially offset by favorable business mix and higher pricing in certain product lines. Corporate In 2022, corporate expenses were $416 million, a decrease of $13 million compared to 2021, primarily d riven by cost efficiencies and past restructuring actions. Inventory Impairment In 2022, we recorded inventory impairments of $31 million primarily in IET as part of suspending our Russia operations.  Inventory impairments are reported in the "Cost of goods sold" caption of the consolidated statements of income (loss).  There were no inventory impairments during 2021. Restructuring, Impairment and Other In 2022 , we recognized $682 million of restructuring, impairment and other charges, primarily related to the suspension of substantially all of our operations in Russia, as well as, costs incurred to facilitate our reorganization into two segments and the implementation of certain projects in our OFSE segment to optimize their global footprint.  In addition, we impaired certain long-lived assets in our OFSE segment for the subsea production systems ("SPS") business due to a decrease in the estimated future cash flows driven by a decline in our long-term market outlook for this business.  In 2021, we recognized $209 million in restructuring, impairment and other charges.  The charges in 2021 primarily related to the initiatives in our OFSE segment that were the continuation of our overall strategy to right-size our structural costs. Separation Related We recorded $23 million of separation related costs in 2022, a decrease of $37 million from the prior year.  Costs relate to the activities for the separation from GE, primarily related to information technology.  Separation activities were substantially completed by the end of 2022. Other Non-Operating Loss, Net In 2022, we recorded $911 million of other non-operating loss, an increase of $328 million from the prior year, primarily due to the loss of $451 million from the sale of part of the OFSE business in Russia.  We also recorded $265 million of unrealized losses related to marking our investments in C3 AI and ADNOC to fair value.  Additionally, in December 2022, the Company, BHH LLC and GE entered into an agreement which resulted in the termination of the Tax Matters Agreement ("TMA"), and as a result, we recorded a charge of $81 million, of which $21 million was a cash payment to GE as a net settlement of claims asserted under the TMA.  See "Note 11. Income Taxes" for further information. Interest Expense, Net In 2022, we incurred interest expense, net of interest income, of $252 million, a decrease of $47 million from the prior year, driven primarily by higher interest income, and lower interest expense due to $28 million of non-recurring costs in 2021 associated with the refinancing of our senior notes. Income Taxes In 2022, our provision for income taxes was $600 million.  The difference between the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% and the effective tax rate is primarily related to losses with no tax benefit due to valuation allowances, restructuring charges for which a majority has no tax benefit, and earnings in jurisdictions with tax rates higher than the U.S. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 36 In 2021, our provision for income taxes was $758 million.  The difference between the U.S. statutory tax rate of 21% and the effective tax rate is primarily related to losses with no tax benefit due to valuation allowances and changes in unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions. Fiscal Year 2021 to Fiscal Year 2020 Revenue in 2021 was $20,502 million, a decrease of $203 million, or 1%, from 2020.  This decrease in revenue was largely a result of decreased activity in OFSE, partially offset by an increase in IET.  OFSE decreased $956 million and IET increased $754 million. Total segment operating income in 2021 was $2,006 million, an increase of $502 million, or 33%, from 2020.  The increase was driven by OFSE, which increased $324 million, and IET, which increased $178 million. Oilfield Services & Equipment OFSE 2021 revenue was $12,028 million, a decrease of $956 million, or 7%, from 2020, primarily as a result of decreased international activity in 2021 compared to 2020, as evidenced by a decline in the corresponding rig count, and, to a lesser extent, decreased activity in North America, and supply chain constraints that occurred in the second half of 2021.  International revenue was $9,124 million in 2021, a decrease of $753 million from 2020, primarily driven by declines in the Middle East, partially offset by growth in Latin America.  North America revenue was $2,904 million in 2021, a decrease of $203 million from 2020.  The decrease in revenue was also driven by the disposition of the surface pressure control flow business in the fourth quarter of 2020, and the removal of SDS from consolidated OFSE operations in the fourth quarter of 2021 due to the formation of a joint venture. OFSE 2021 segment operating income was $830 million, compared to $506 million in 2020.  The increase was primarily driven by higher cost productivity as a result of cost efficiencies and restructuring actions.  Additional drivers were increases in price in certain product lines, partially offset by lower volume. Industrial & Energy Technology IET 2021 revenue was $8,473 million, an increase of $754 million, or 10%, from 2020.  The increase was primarily driven by higher volume for both Gas Technology Equipment and Gas Technology Services, partially offset by supply chain constraints that impacted product deliveries, mainly in the Industrial Technology product lines. IET 2021 segment operating income was $1,177 million, compared to $998 million in 2020.  The increase in profitability was driven primarily by higher volume, price, and productivity, partially offset by unfavorable business mix. Corporate In 2021, corporate expenses were $429 million, a decrease of $35 million compared to 2020 , primarily d riven by lower expenses as a result of cost out programs and restructuring actions. Inventory Impairment There were no inventory impairments during 2021.  In 2020, we recorded inventory impairments of $246 million primarily related to our OFSE segment as a result of certain restructuring activities initiated by the Company.  Charges for inventory impairments are reported in the "Cost of goods sold" caption of the consolidated statements of income (loss). Goodwill Impairment There were no goodwill impairments during 2021.  During the first quarter of 2020, the Company’s market capitalization declined significantly driven by current macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions including the decrease in demand caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and collapse of oil prices driven by both surplus production and supply.  Based on these events, we concluded that a triggering event occurred and we performed an interim quantitative impairment test as of March 31, 2020.  Based upon the results of the impairment test, we recognized a Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 37 goodwill impairment charge of $14,773 million during the first quarter of 2020.  There were no other goodwill impairments during 2020. Restructuring, Impairment and Other In 2021, we recognized $209 million in restructuring, impairment and other charges.  The charges in 2021 primarily relate to the initiatives in our OFSE segment that are the continuation of our overall strategy to right-size our structural costs. In 2020, we recognized $1,866 million in restructuring, impairment and other charges.  These charges primarily related to the restructuring plan announced in the first quarter of 2020, which included product line rationalization actions, headcount reductions in certain geographical locations, and other initiatives to right-size operations for anticipated activity levels and market conditions. Separation Related We recorded $60 million of separation related costs in 2021, a decrease of $74 million from the prior year, largely driven by a reduction in the ongoing activities for the separation from GE, primarily related to information technology. Other Non-Operating Income/(Loss), Net In 2021, we recorded $583 million of other non-operating loss.  Costs in 2021 include an unrealized loss of $1,085 million from marking our investment in C3 AI to fair value, partially offset by an unrealized gain of $241 million from marking our investment in ADNOC Drilling to fair value, by the reversal of $121 million of current accruals d ue to the settlement of certain legal matters, and by income of $121 million for liabilities previously expected to be recoverable as they were indemnified under the TMA with GE.  This income from indemnified liabilities has an offset in the "Provision for income taxes" caption in our consolidated statements of income (loss). In 2020, we recorded $1,040 million of other non-operating income.  Included in this amount was an unrealized gain of $1,417 million related to marking our investment in C3 AI to fair value, partially offset by losses of $353 million for the sale of two product lines in OFSE, the rod lift systems business and the surface pressure control flow business. Interest Expense, Net In 2021, we incurred net interest expense of $299 million, an increase of $35 million from the prior year, primarily driven by higher interest expense, mainly related to $28 million of costs associated with the refinancing of our senior notes due December 2022, and lower interest income. Income Taxes In 2021, our income tax expense was $758 million, an increase of $199 million, from $559 million in 2020.  The increase was primarily due to tax expense related to unrecognized tax benefits and the geographical mix of earnings.  Our 2021 income tax expense included $121 million that we previously expected to be recoverable as it related to liabilities indemnified under the TMA with GE.  This tax expense has an offset in the "Other non-operating income (loss), net" caption in our consolidated statements of income (loss). COMPLIANCE In the conduct of all of our activities, we are committed to maintaining the core values of our Company, as well as high safety, ethical, and quality standards as also reported in our Quality Management System ("QMS").  We believe such a commitment is integral to running a sound, successful, and sustainable business.  We devote significant resources to maintain a comprehensive global ethics and compliance program ("Compliance Program") which is designed to prevent, detect, and appropriately respond to any potential violations of the law, the Code of Conduct, and other Company policies and procedures. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 38 Highlights of our Compliance Program include the following: • Comprehensive internal policies over such areas as anti-bribery; travel, entertainment, gifts and charitable donations to government officials and other parties; payments to commercial sales representatives; and, the use of non-U.S. police or military organizations for security purposes.  In addition, there are policies and procedures to address customs requirements, visa processing risks, export and re-export controls, economic sanctions, anti-money laundering and anti-boycott laws. • Global and independent structure of Chief Compliance Officer and other compliance professionals providing compliance advice, customized training and governance, as well as investigating allegations across all regions and countries where we do business. • Comprehensive employee compliance training program that combines instructor-led and web-based training modules tailored to the key risks that employees face on an ongoing basis. • Due diligence and monitoring procedures for third parties who conduct business on our behalf, including channel partners (sales representatives, distributors, resellers), and administrative service providers. • Due diligence procedures for acquisition activities. • Specifically tailored compliance risk assessments and audits focused on country and third party risk. • Compliance Review Board comprised of senior officers of the Company that meets quarterly to monitor effectiveness of the Compliance Program, as well as segment compliance review boards that meet quarterly. • Technology to monitor and report on compliance matters, including an internal investigations management system, a conflict of interest reporting and management system, a web-based anti-boycott reporting tool, global trade management systems and comprehensive watch list screening. • Data privacy compliance policies and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable data privacy requirements. • A compliance program designed to create an “Open Reporting Environment” where employees are encouraged to report any ethics or compliance matter without fear of retaliation, including a global network of trained employee ombudspersons, and a worldwide, 24-hour business helpline operated by a third party and available in approximately 200 languages. • Centralized finance organization with company-wide policies. • Anti-corruption audits of high-risk countries, as well as risk-based compliance audits of third parties. • We have region-specific processes and procedures for management of HR related issues, including pre-hire screening of employees; a process to screen existing employees prior to promotion into select roles where they may be exposed to finance and/or corruption-related risks; and implementation of a global new hire training module which includes compliance training for all employees. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our objective in financing our business is to maintain sufficient liquidity, adequate financial resources, and financial flexibility in order to fund the requirements of our business.  We continue to maintain solid financial strength and liquidity.  At December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $2.5 billion compared to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2021. In the U.S. we held cash and cash equivalents of approximately $0.6 billion and $1.6 billion and outside the U.S. of approximately $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  A substantial portion of the cash held outside the U.S. at December 31, 2022 has been reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations.  If we decide at a later date to repatriate those funds to the U.S., we may incur other additional taxes that would not be significant to the total tax provision. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 39 We have a $3 billion committed unsecured revolving credit facility ("the Credit Agreement") with commercial banks maturing in December 2024.  The Credit Agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties, certain customary affirmative covenants and certain customary negative covenants.  Upon the occurrence of certain events of default, our obligations under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated.  Such events of default include payment defaults to lenders under the Credit Agreement and other customary defaults.  No such events of default have occurred.  In addition, we have a commercial paper program with authorization up to $3 billion under which we may issue from time to time commercial paper with maturities of no more than 397 days.  At December 31, 2022 and 2021, there were no borrowings under the Credit Agreement or the commercial paper program. Certain Senior Notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to take certain actions.  See "Note 9. Borrowings" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for further details.  At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all debt covenants.  Our next debt maturity is December 2023. We continuously review our liquidity and capital resources.  If market conditions were to change, for instance due to the uncertainty created by geopolitical events, a global pandemic or a significant decline in oil and gas prices, and our revenue was reduced significantly or operating costs were to increase significantly, our cash flows and liquidity could be negatively impacted.  Additionally, it could cause the rating agencies to lower our credit ratings.  There are no ratings triggers that would accelerate the maturity of any borrowings under our committed credit facility; however, a downgrade in our credit ratings could increase the cost of borrowings under the credit facility and could also limit or preclude our ability to issue commercial paper.  Should this occur, we could seek alternative sources of funding, including borrowing under the credit facility. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we dispersed cash to fund a variety of activities including certain working capital needs, capital expenditures, the payment of dividends, repurchases of our common stock, and distributions to noncontrolling interests. Cash Flows Cash flows provided by (used in) each type of activity were as follows for the years ended December 31: Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities generated cash of $1,888 million, $2,374 million, and $1,304 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Our largest source of operating cash is payments from customers, of which the largest component is collecting cash related to our sales of products and services including advance payments or progress collections for work to be performed.  The primary use of operating cash is to pay our suppliers, employees, tax authorities and others for a wide range of goods and services. In 2022, cash generated from operating activities were primarily driven by net losses adjusted for certain noncash items (including depreciation, amortization, loss on business dispositions, stock based compensation cost, loss on equity securities, and the impairment of certain assets).  Working capital, which includes contract and other deferred assets, generated cash of $122 million in 2022 primarily due to strong progress collections on equipment contracts and an increase in accounts payable, partially offset by the increase in receivables and inventory as we build for revenue growth. In 2021, working capital generated $480 million of cash primarily due to accounts payable, inventories and contract and other deferred assets partially offset by accounts receivable and progress collections, as we continued to make progress on improving our working capital processes.  Restructuring and GE separation related payments Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 40 were $175 million on a net basis in 2021 and included the proceeds from the disposal of certain facilities, which are reflected below in investing activities. In 2020, working capital generated $216 million of cash primarily due to receivables and positive progress collections partially offset by accounts payable.  Restructuring and GE separation related payments were $670 million in 2020. Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities used cash of $1,564 million, $463 million, and $618 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Our principal recurring investing activity is the funding of capital expenditures to ensure that we have the appropriate levels and types of machinery and equipment in place to generate revenue from operations.  Expenditures for capital assets totaled $989 million, $856 million, and $974 million for 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively, partially offset by cash flows from the sale of property, plant and equipment of $217 million, $315 million, and $187 million in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.  Proceeds from the disposal of assets are primarily related to equipment that was lost-in-hole, predominantly in OFSE, and to property, machinery and equipment no longer used in operations that was sold throughout the period. In 2022, we paid $845 million for both acquisitions and investments in business interests.  We completed several acquisitions during 2022 including BRUSH Power Generation, Quest Integrity, AccessESP, and Mosaic Materials.  The total cash paid, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions was $767 million, and we used cash on hand to fund these transactions. In 2021, we contributed our SDS business to create a joint venture and received as consideration 50% of the shares of the joint venture, cash of $70 million, and a promissory note of $80 million.  In 2020, we received proceeds of $187 million primarily from the sale of our rod lift systems and our surface pressure control flow businesses. In 2021, we invested $266 million to add capabilities to our new energy and industrial asset management offerings through the acquisition of business interests in Augury, Ekona Power, Electrochaea, and the acquisition of ARMS Reliability, among others.  Also in 2021, we sold approximately 2.2 million C3 AI Shares and received proceeds of $145 million, which is included in other investing activities. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities used cash of $1,592 million, $2,143 million, and generated cash of $225 million for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. We had net repayments of short-term debt of $28 million, $41 million, and $204 million and long-term debt of nil, $1,313 million, and $42 million in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively.  The repayment of long-term debt in 2021 was primarily driven by the early repayment of our 2.773% Senior Notes due December 2022 ("the 2022 Notes") with a principal amount of $1,250 million.  In addition, a charge of $28 million related to the early redemption was recorded within "Interest expense, net" in our consolidated statements of income (loss). In 2022, we increased our quarterly dividend by one cent to $0.19 per share during the fourth quarter.  We paid dividends of $726 million, $592 million, and $488 million to our Class A stockholders, and we made distributions of $17 million, $157 million, and $256 million to GE in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. In 2022, our Board of Directors authorized an increase to our repurchase program of $2 billion of additional Class A common stock and LLC units for each of the Company and BHH LLC, respectively, increasing its existing repurchase authorization of $2 billion to $4 billion.  During 2022, the Company and BHH LLC repurchased and canceled 29.7 million shares of Class A common stock and LLC Units, respectively, for a total of $828 million. In 2021, we received proceeds from the issuance of $650 million aggregate principal amount of 1.231% Senior Notes due December 2023 and $600 million aggregate principal amount of 2.061% Senior Notes due December Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 41 2026.  In 2020, we had proceeds from the issuance of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.486% Senior Notes due May 2030. In 2021, we repaid $832 million (£600 million) of commercial paper originally issued in 2020 ($737 million at date of issuance) under the COVID Corporate Financing Facility established by the Bank of England. During 2021, the Company and BHH LLC repurchased and canceled 17.6 million shares of Class A common stock and LLC Units, respectively, for a total of $434 million. Cash Requirements We believe cash on hand, cash flows from operating activities, the available revolving credit facility, access to both our commercial paper program or our uncommitted lines of credit, and availability under our existing shelf registrations of debt will provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity in the short-term and long-term to manage our working capital needs, meet contractual obligations, fund capital expenditures and dividends, repay debt, repurchase our common stock, and support the development of our short-term and long-term operating strategies.  When necessary, we issue commercial paper or other short-term debt to fund cash needs in the U.S. in excess of the cash generated in the U.S. Our capital expenditures can be adjusted and managed by us to match market demand and activity levels.  Based on current market conditions, capital expenditures in 2023 will be made at a rate that we estimate would equal up to 5% of annual revenue.  The expenditures are expected to be used primarily for normal, recurring items necessary to support our business.  We also anticipate making income tax payments in the range of $500 million to $550 million in 2023. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our material cash commitments from known contractual and other obligations consist primarily of obligations for long-term debt and related interest, leases for property and equipment, and purchase obligations as part of normal operations.  Certain amounts included in our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2022 are based on our estimates and assumptions about these obligations, including their duration, anticipated actions by third parties and other factors. See “Note 9. Borrowings” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for information regarding scheduled maturities of our long-term debt.  See “Note 8. Leases” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for information regarding scheduled maturities of our operating leases. As of December 31, 2022, we had expected cash payments for estimated interest on our long-term debt and finance lease obligations of $267 million payable within the next twelve months and $2,936 million payable thereafter. As of December 31, 2022, we had purchase obligations of $1,584 million payable within the next twelve months and $907 million payable thereafter.  Our purchase obligations include expenditures for capital assets for 2023 as well as agreements to purchase goods or services or licenses that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of potential future cash outflows associated with our uncertain tax positions, we are unable to make reasonable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, to the respective taxing authorities.  Therefore, $665 million in uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties, have been excluded from the contractual obligations discussed above.  See "Note 11. Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further information. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 42 Other factors affecting liquidity Customer receivables : In line with industry practice, we may bill our customers for services provided in arrears dependent upon contractual terms.  In a challenging economic environment, we may experience delays in the payment of our invoices due to customers' lower cash flow from operations or their more limited access to credit markets.  While historically there have not been material non-payment events, we attempt to mitigate this risk through working with our customers to restructure their debts.  A customer's failure or delay in payment could have a material adverse effect on our short-term liquidity and results from operations.  As of December 31, 2022, 15% of our gross customer receivables were from customers in the U.S. and 11% were from customers in Mexico.  As of December 31, 2021, 13% of our gross customer receivables were from customers in the U.S and 12% were from customers in Mexico. International operations : Our cash that is held outside the U.S. is 77% of the total cash balance as of December 31, 2022.  We may not be able to use this cash quickly and efficiently due to exchange or cash controls that could make it challenging.  As a result, our cash balance may not represent our ability to quickly and efficiently use this cash. Supply chain finance programs : Under supply chain finance programs, administered by a third party, our suppliers are given the opportunity to sell receivables from us to participating financial institutions at their sole discretion at a rate that leverages our credit rating and thus might be more beneficial to our suppliers.  Our responsibility is limited to making payment on the terms originally negotiated with our supplier, regardless of whether the supplier sells its receivable to a financial institution.  The range of payment terms we negotiate with our suppliers is consistent, irrespective of whether a supplier participates in the program.  These liabilities continue to be presented as accounts payable in our consolidated statements of financial position and reflected as cash flow from operating activities when settled.  We do not believe that changes in the availability of supply chain financing programs would have a material impact on our liquidity. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption it incorporates is subject to a material level of judgment related to matters that are highly uncertain and changes in those estimates and assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our consolidated financial statements.  These estimates reflect our best judgment about current, and for some estimates, future, economic and market conditions and their potential effects based on information available as of the date of these financial statements.  If these conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described below could change, which may result in future impairments of goodwill, or the establishment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increased tax liabilities, among other effects.  Also, see "Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein, which discusses our most significant accounting policies. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has reviewed our critical accounting estimates and the disclosure presented below.  During the past three fiscal years, we have not made any material changes in the methodology used to establish the critical accounting estimates, and we believe that the following are the critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2022.  There are other items within our consolidated financial statements that require estimation and judgment, but they are not deemed critical as defined above. Revenue Recognition on Long-Term Product Services Agreements We have long-term service agreements with our customers within our IET segment.  These agreements typically require us to maintain assets sold to the customer over a defined contract term.  These agreements have average contract terms of greater than 10 years.  From time to time, these contract terms may be extended through contract modifications or amendments, which may result in revisions to future billing and cost estimates.  Revenue recognition on long-term product services agreements requires estimates of both customer payments and the costs to perform required maintenance services over the contract term.  We recognize revenue on an over time basis using input method to measure our progress toward completion at the estimated margin rate of the contract. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 43 To develop our billings estimates, we consider the number of billable events that will occur based on estimated utilization of the asset under contract, over the life of the contract term.  This estimated utilization will consider both historical and market conditions, asset retirements and new product introductions, if applicable. To develop our cost estimates, we consider the timing and extent of maintenance and overhaul events, including the amount and cost of labor, spare parts and other resources required to perform the services.  In developing our cost estimates, we utilize a combination of our historical cost experience and expected cost improvements.  Cost improvements are only included in future cost estimates after savings have been observed in actual results or proven effective through an extensive regulatory or engineering approval process. We routinely review the estimates used in our product services agreements and regularly revise them to adjust for changes.  These revisions are based on objectively verifiable information that is available at the time of the review.  We gain insight into expected future utilization and cost trends, as well as credit risk, through our knowledge of the equipment installed and the close interaction with our customers through supplying critical services and parts over extended periods. Revisions to cost or billing estimates may affect a product services agreement’s total estimated profitability resulting in an adjustment of earnings; such adjustments generated earnings of $20 million, $14 million and $17 million for the three years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively.  We provide for probable losses when they become evident.  Cash billings collected on these contracts were approximately $0.7 billion and $0.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  Our contracts (on average) are approximately 18% complete based on costs incurred to date and our estimate of future costs. Revenue Recognition on Sale of Customized Equipment We recognize revenue on agreements for sales of equipment manufactured to unique customer specifications including long-term construction projects, on an over time basis utilizing cost inputs as the measurement criteria in assessing the progress toward completion. Our estimation of the total costs required to fulfill our promise to a customer is generally based on our history of manufacturing similar assets for customers. This estimation of cost is critical to our revenue recognition process and is updated routinely to reflect changes in quantity or cost of the inputs. In certain projects, the underlying technology or promise to the customer is unique to what we have historically promised and reliably estimating the total cost to fulfill the promise to the customer requires a significant level of judgment. We provide for potential losses on any of these agreements when it is probable that we will incur the loss.  The total revenue recognized for the sale of equipment on an over time basis during the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 was $4.2 billion, $4.8 billion, and $4.6 billion, respectively. Goodwill and Other Identified Intangible Assets We perform an annual impairment test of goodwill on a qualitative or quantitative basis for each of our reporting units as of July 1, or more frequently when circumstances indicate an impairment may exist at the reporting unit level.  When performing the annual impairment test we have the option of first performing a qualitative assessment to determine the existence of events and circumstances that would lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  If such a conclusion is reached, we would then be required to perform a quantitative impairment assessment of goodwill.  A quantitative assessment for the determination of impairment is made by comparing the carrying amount of each reporting unit with its fair value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions and typically requires analysis of discounted cash flows and other market information, such as trading multiples, and comparable transactions.  Cash flow analysis requires judgment regarding many factors, such as management’s projections of future cash flows, weighted-average cost of capital, and long-term growth rates.  Market information requires judgmental selection of relevant market comparables. We assess the valuation methodology based upon the relevance and availability of the data at the time the valuation is performed.  Our estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain, and actual results may differ from those assumed in our analysis.  The determination of whether goodwill is impaired involves a significant level of judgment in these assumptions, and changes in our forecasts, business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions could significantly impact these judgments, potentially decreasing the fair value of one or more reporting units.  Any resulting impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 44 Income Taxes Our effective tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates, and differences between tax laws and U.S. GAAP in various jurisdictions.  Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities.  Our rate may be further impacted by the repatriation of foreign earnings that are considered indefinitely reinvested to the extent the repatriation would result in additional taxes such as withholding and income taxes.  Indefinite reinvestment is determined by management’s judgment and intentions concerning the future operations of the Company.  In cases where repatriation would otherwise incur significant withholding or income taxes, these foreign earnings have been indefinitely reinvested in active non-U.S. business operations.  Computation of the potential deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings and any other basis differences is not practicable. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable in future years.  We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies.  These sources of income rely heavily on estimates.  We use our historical experience and short and long range business forecasts to provide insight.  We record a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our tax filings routinely are subject to audit by the tax authorities in the jurisdictions where we conduct business.  These audits may result in assessments of additional taxes that are resolved with the tax authorities or through the courts.  We have provided for the amounts we believe will ultimately result from these proceedings, but settlements of issues raised in these audits may affect our tax rate.  We have $496 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, at December 31, 2022.  We are not able to reasonably estimate in which future periods these amounts ultimately will be settled. Allowance for Credit Losses The estimation of anticipated credit losses that may be incurred as we work through the invoice collection process with our customers requires us to make judgments and estimates regarding our customers' ability to pay amounts due to us.  We monitor our customers' payment history and current credit worthiness to determine that collectability is reasonably assured.  We also consider the overall business climate in which our customers operate.  For accounts receivable, a loss allowance matrix is utilized to measure lifetime expected credit losses.  The matrix contemplates historical credit losses by age of receivables, adjusted for any forward-looking information and management expectations.  At December 31, 2022 and 2021, the allowance for credit losses totaled $341 million and $400 million of total gross accounts receivable, respectively.  We believe that our allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover the anticipated credit losses under current conditions; however, uncertainties regarding changes in the financial condition of our customers, either adverse or positive, could impact the amount and timing of any additional credit losses that may be required. Inventory Reserves Inventory is a significant component of current assets and is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value.  This requires us to record provisions and maintain reserves for excess, slow moving, and obsolete inventory.  To determine these reserve amounts, we regularly review inventory quantities on hand and compare them to estimates of future product demand, market conditions, production requirements, and technological developments.  These estimates and forecasts inherently include uncertainties and require us to make judgments regarding potential future outcomes.  At December 31, 2022 and 2021, inventory reserves totaled $396 million and $374 million of gross inventory, respectively.  We believe that our reserves are adequate to properly value potential excess, slow moving, and obsolete inventory under current conditions.  Significant or unanticipated changes to our estimates and forecasts could impact the amount and timing of any additional provisions for excess, slow moving or obsolete inventory that may be required. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS TO BE ADOPTED See "Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further discussion of accounting standards to be adopted. Baker Hughes Company 2022 Form 10-K | 45 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS See "Note 18. Related Party Transactions" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 herein for further discussion of related party transactions. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Form 10-K, including MD&A and certain statements in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (each a "forward-looking statement").  Forward-looking statements concern future circumstances and results and other statements that are not historical facts and are sometimes identified by the words "may," "will," "should," "potential," "intend," "expect," "endeavor," "seek," "anticipate," "estimate," "overestimate," "underestimate," "believe," "could," "project," "predict," "continue," "target" or other similar words or expressions.  Forward-looking statements are based upon current plans, estimates and expectations that are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions.  Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements.  The inclusion of such statements should not be regarded as a representation that such plans, estimates or expectations will be achieved.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such plans, estimates or expectations include, among others, the risk factors in the "Risk Factors" section of Part 1 of Item 1A of this Form 10-K and those set forth from time-to-time in other filings by the Company with the SEC.  These documents are available through our website or through the SEC's Electronic Data Gathering and Analysis Retrieval ("EDGAR") system at http://www.sec.gov. In light of such risks and uncertainties, we caution you not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this annual report, or if earlier, as of the date they were made.  We do not intend to, and disclaim any obligation to, update or revise any forward-looking statements unless required by securities law.