********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks associated with our business, any investment in our securities, and with achieving the forward looking statements contained in this report or in our news releases, websites, public filings, investor and analyst conferences or elsewhere, include the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Any of these risks, whether known or unknown, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and we may not succeed in addressing these challenges and risks. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8. Industry Risks The industry in which we operate is dependent upon the residential homebuilding industry, as well as the U.S. economy, the credit markets and other important factors. The building products industry is highly dependent on new home and multifamily construction as well as repair and remodel, which in turn are dependent upon a number of factors, including interest rates, consumer confidence, employment rates, foreclosure rates, housing inventory levels and occupancy, housing demand and the health of the U.S. economy and mortgage markets. Unfavorable changes in demographics, credit markets, including rising mortgage and other interest rates, consumer confidence, household incomes, inflation, housing affordability, or housing inventory levels and occupancy, or a weakening of the U.S. economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for our products, and adversely affect our business. Production of new homes and multifamily buildings may also decline because of shortages of qualified tradesmen, reliance on inadequately capitalized builders and sub-contractors, shortages of suitable building lots and material, and lack of financing or more expensive financing available to homebuilders. In addition, the building industry is subject to various local, state, and federal statutes, ordinances, and regulations concerning zoning, building design and safety, construction, energy and water conservation and similar matters, including regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the number of homes that can be built within the boundaries of a particular area or in order to maintain certain areas as primarily or exclusively residential. Regulatory restrictions may increase our operating expenses and limit the availability of suitable building lots for our customers, which could negatively affect our sales and earnings. Because we have substantial fixed costs, relatively modest declines in our customers’ production levels could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The building supply industry is subject to cyclical market pressures. Prices of building products are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in supply and demand, national and international economic conditions, including inflation and interest rates, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulation, and trade policies, as well as from periodic delays in the delivery of lumber and other products. For example, prices of wood products, including lumber and panel products, are subject to significant volatility, such as the spike in lumber prices experienced in our industry in 2020 and 2021 and the more recent decline in lumber prices. The prices of wood products directly affect our sales and earnings. In particular, low prices for wood products over a sustained period can adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows, as can excessive spikes in prices. If lumber or structural panel prices were to significantly decline from current levels, our sales and profits would be negatively affected as compared to 2022 operating results. Our lumber and lumber sheet goods product category represented 35.6% of total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022. We have limited ability to manage the timing and amount of pricing changes for building products. In addition, the supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity. A shortage of capacity or excess capacity in the industry can result in significant increases or declines in prices for those building products, often within a short period of time. Such price fluctuations can adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, the building products industry is cyclical in nature. Industry forecasters expect that we will face future downturns in the homebuilding industry which could have an adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition or cash flows. We are not able to predict the timing, severity or duration of any future downturns in the housing market. 11 Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and increased competitive pressure may adversely affect our results. The building products supply industry is highly fragmented and competitive. We face, and will continue to face, significant competition from local, regional and other national building materials chains, as well as from privately-owned single site enterprises. Any of these competitors may (1) foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, (2) develop products that are superior to our products, (3) have the ability to produce or supply similar products at a lower cost, (4) develop stronger relationships with local homebuilders or commercial builders or (5) adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements than we do. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully with them. In addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small contractors, have intensified their marketing efforts, including expanding e-commerce offerings, to professional homebuilders in recent years and may continue to intensify these efforts in the future. Furthermore, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to production homebuilders or commercial builders, and the volume of such direct sales could increase in the future. Additionally, manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to homebuilders or commercial builders in the future or enter into exclusive supplier arrangements with other distributors. Consolidation of production homebuilders or commercial builders may result in increased competition for their business. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our operating costs or product prices at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. Homebuyer demand may shift towards smaller homes creating fluctuations in demand for our products. Home affordability can be a key driver in demand for our products and home prices have increased meaningfully over the past several years. Home affordability is influenced by a number of economic factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, supply of houses, the availability of financing and interest rates. Changes in the inventory of available homes as well as economic factors relative to home prices may result in homes becoming less affordable. Furthermore, consumer preferences could shift to smaller or larger homes in the future. This could cause homebuyer demand to soften or shift substantially which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows if we are unable to respond to the new market demands effectively. A range of factors may make our quarterly revenues, earnings and cash flows variable. We have historically experienced, and in the future will continue to experience, variability in revenues, earnings and cash flows on a quarterly basis. The factors expected to contribute to this variability include, among others: (1) the volatility of prices of lumber, wood products and other building products, (2) the cyclical nature of the homebuilding industry, (3) general economic conditions in the various areas that we serve, (4) the intense competition in the industry, including expansion and growth strategies by competitors, (5) the production schedules of our customers and suppliers, (6) the effects of the weather and (7) labor costs, labor shortages and available capacity to meet customer demand for our products. These factors, among others, make it difficult to project our operating results and cash flows on a consistent basis, which may affect the price of our stock. Operational and Strategic Risks We may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes increasing sales of our prefabricated components and other value-added products, pursuing strategic acquisitions, opening new facilities, implementing operational excellence, pursuing digitization opportunities and initiatives, and maintaining a balanced debt level. Our long-term strategy depends in part on growing our sales of prefabricated components and other value-added products, increasing our market share, and implementing various initiatives to increase our operational efficiency, improve our margins, optimize our pricing strategies, and streamline the customer experience. If any of these initiatives are not successful, or require extensive investment, our growth may be limited, and we may be unable to achieve or maintain expected levels of growth and profitability. Our long-term business plan also provides for continued growth through strategic acquisitions and organic growth through the construction of new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities. Failure to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates on appropriate terms could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategy. Moreover, our liquidity position, or the requirements of our debt instruments could prevent us from obtaining the capital required to effect new acquisitions or expand our existing facilities. Our failure to make successful acquisitions or to build or expand needed facilities, including manufacturing facilities, produce saleable product, or meet customer demand in a timely manner could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. A negative impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows, or our decision to invest in strategic acquisitions or new facilities, could adversely affect our ability to maintain a balanced debt level. 12 Furthermore, we have made significant investments, and intend to continue to invest, in technology solutions designed to increase the efficiency of the homebuilding process.  There is no guarantee that such solutions will be effective, will be adopted by our customers, will be able to compete with alternative technology solutions, including from start-up and more well established technology companies or our competitors, or that we will realize the anticipated benefits from our investments in these solutions.  As a result, we may suffer losses on these investments or lose market share if competing technology solutions are more widely adopted than the technology solutions we are developing. We have consummated a number of strategic acquisitions as part of our growth strategy and intend to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future as part of our growth strategy.  Strategic acquisitions involve risks and if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions or identify suitable acquisition candidates in the future, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Strategic acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy and we seek to identify attractive acquisition opportunities that we believe will be accretive and result in increased sales and EBITDA, cost savings, synergies and various other benefits. Assessing the viability and realizing the benefits of these transactions is subject to significant uncertainty. Additionally, in connection with evaluating potential strategic transactions, we may incur significant expenses for the evaluation and due diligence investigation and negotiation of any potential transaction. Furthermore, multiples for acquisition targets have generally increased over the past few years and we face increased competition from other acquirors for attractive acquisition opportunities.  As a result, we may not be able to consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all.  We may also not be able to obtain necessary approvals to consummate acquisitions. An inability to continue to identify and consummate attractive acquisitions could adversely affect our growth. If we complete an acquisition, we need to successfully integrate the target company’s products, services, associates and systems into our business operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits from an acquisition. Integration can be a complex and time-consuming process, and if the integration is not fully successful or is delayed for a material period of time, we may not achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of the acquisition. Although we have been successful in the past with the integration of numerous acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of any future acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our or the acquired companies’ existing operations. Furthermore, even if a target company is successfully integrated, an acquisition may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or services, and expose us to additional liabilities. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets acquired in a strategic transaction may reduce our earnings. Moreover, acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including uncertainties as to the future financial performance of the acquired business, the achievement of expected synergies, difficulties integrating acquired personnel and corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, difficulties in integrating different computer and accounting systems, exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. We may be unable to successfully complete potential acquisitions due to multiple factors, such as issues related to regulatory review of the proposed transactions. We may also be required to incur additional debt or issue additional shares of our common stock in order to consummate acquisitions in the future. Potential new debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. The issuance of new shares of our common stock could dilute the equity value of our existing stockholders. Our failure to fully integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could prevent us from remaining competitive and, ultimately, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to competitive pricing pressure from our customers. Production homebuilders and multifamily builders historically have exerted and will continue to exert significant pressure on their outside suppliers, including on us, to keep prices low because of their market share and their ability to leverage such market share in the highly fragmented building products supply industry. Given this pricing pressure, we may not be able to pass along price increases for lumber, wood products, other building products, or related labor costs to our customers, which could impact our margins.   In addition, continued consolidation among production homebuilders or multifamily and commercial builders, or changes in such builders’ purchasing policies or payment practices, could result in additional pricing pressure, and our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. Furthermore, in periods of economic downturn these pricing pressures tend to increase. As a result, we may face heightened pricing pressures in the event of an economic downturn, and our financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected. The loss of any of our significant customers or a reduction in the quantity of products they purchase could affect our financial health. Our ten largest customers generated approximately 18% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022. We cannot guarantee that we will maintain or improve our relationships with these customers or that we will supply these customers at historical 13 levels. Moreover, in the event of any downturn, some of our homebuilder customers may exit or severely curtail building activity in certain of our markets. In addition, production homebuilders, multifamily builders and other customers may: (1) seek to purchase some of the products that we currently sell directly from manufacturers, (2) elect to establish their own building products manufacturing and distribution facilities or (3) give advantages to manufacturing or distribution intermediaries in which they have an economic stake. Continued consolidation among production homebuilders could also result in a loss of some of our present customers to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could significantly affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, our customers are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. The contracts into which we have entered with most of our professional customers typically provide that we supply particular products or services for a certain period of time when and if ordered by the customer. Should our customers purchase our products in significantly lower quantities than they have in the past, such decreased purchases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Historically, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. While the COVID-19 pandemic caused significant disruptions and delays in the manufacture and distribution of building products throughout the industry supply chain, we are beginning to see a return to pre-pandemic levels in many areas. That said, the loss of, or an ongoing substantial decrease in the availability of products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our operating margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Short-term changes in the cost of these materials, some of which are subject to significant fluctuations, are oftentimes, but not always, passed on to our customers. Our delayed ability to pass on material price increases to our customers could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, the inability of our suppliers to meet our supply needs in a timely manner or our quality standards could cause delays to delivery date requirements of our customers. Such failures could result in the cancellation of orders, customers’ refusal to accept deliveries, a reduction in purchase prices, and ultimately, termination of customer relationships, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. In that case, we may be required to seek alternative sources of materials or products. Our inability to identify and secure alternative sources of supply could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to satisfy customer orders. While we have largely been able to manage these supply chain disruptions to date, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. Failure to attract and retain our key employees and the impact of our recent leadership changes may adversely impact our ability to successfully execute our business strategies. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, operational, sales and other personnel. We face significant competition for these types of employees in our industry and from other industries.  We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. We may be unsuccessful in replacing key managers who either resign or retire. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other experienced senior employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of other key employees. In any such event, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we have had recent leadership changes and transitions involving our senior leadership team, as previously announced. Such leadership changes can be inherently difficult to manage, and an inadequate transition may cause disruption to our business, including to our relationships with our customers, suppliers, vendors and employees. It may also make it more difficult for us to hire and retain key employees. In addition, any failure to ensure the effective transfer of knowledge and a smooth transition could hinder our strategic planning, execution and future performance. In addition, competition for non-management employees has increased significantly since the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in higher labor costs and labor shortages at our facilities.  As a result, we may continue to face higher operating expenses and may lose revenue opportunities if we lack capacity due to labor shortages to meet customer demand.  While only a small percentage of our 14 workforce is unionized, there can be no assurance that additional employees will not conduct union organization campaigns or become union members in the future and a failure to renew existing collective bargaining agreements on favorable terms could lead to further labor shortages and higher labor costs. We may be adversely affected by any disruption in our respective information technology systems. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology systems, which encompass all of our major business functions. Our primary ERP systems are proprietary systems that have been highly customized by our computer programmers. Our centralized financial reporting system currently draws data from our ERP systems. We rely upon our information technology systems to run critical accounting and financial information systems, process receivables, manage and replenish inventory, fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis, and coordinate our sales activities across all products and services. A substantial disruption in our information technology systems for any prolonged time period could result in problems and delays in generating critical financial and operational information, processing receivables, receiving inventory and supplies and filling customer orders. These disruptions could adversely affect our operating results as well as our customer service and relationships. Our systems, or those of our significant customers or suppliers, might be damaged or interrupted by natural or man-made events or by computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, or similar disruptions affecting the global Internet. In addition, we rely on a number of third-party service providers to execute certain business processes and maintain certain information technology systems and infrastructure, and any breach of security or disruption in their systems could impair our ability to operate effectively. Such disruptions, delays, problems, or associated costs relating to our systems or those of our significant customers, suppliers or third-party providers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, advances in computer and software capabilities, encryption technology, and other discoveries increase the complexity of our technological environment, including how each interacts with our various software platforms. Such advances could delay or hinder our ability to process transactions or could compromise the integrity of our data, resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken. If we fail to timely integrate and update our information technology systems and processes, including our new ERP system, we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and expect to incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. Our business employs systems that allow for the secure storage and transmission of customers’, vendors’ and employees’ proprietary information. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. The regulatory environment related to information security and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. Our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts and cyber- or phishing-attacks. Additionally, we may be impacted by intrusions or failures of critical infrastructure such as the power grid or communications systems. These events could compromise ours’ and our customers’ and suppliers’ confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and could result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. While we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches to date, we have been the subject of attempted hacking and cyber-attacks and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such significant losses in the future. As cyber-attacks become more sophisticated, we expect to incur increasing costs to strengthen our systems from outside intrusions. While we have implemented administrative and technical controls and have taken other preventive actions, such as deploying company-wide cybersecurity training and conducting threat simulations to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology, they may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. Changes in our customer or product sales mix affect our operating results. Our operating results vary according to the amount and type of products we sell to each of our primary customer types: single-family homebuilders, remodeling contractors, and multifamily, commercial and other contractors. Gross margins on sales to single-family, multifamily, commercial and other contractors vary based on a variety of factors, including the purchase volumes of the individual customer, the mix of products sold to that customer, the cost to serve that customer, the size and selling price of the project being constructed and the number of upgrades added to the project before or during its construction. 15 We generate significant business from the large single-family homebuilders; however, our gross margins on sales to them tend to be lower than our gross margins on sales to other market segments. A shift in our sales mix towards the larger homebuilders could negatively impact our gross margins. In addition, we typically realize higher gross margins on more highly engineered and customized products, or ancillary products that are often purchased based on convenience and are therefore less price sensitive to our customers. For example, sales of lumber and lumber sheet goods tend to generate lower gross margins due to their commodity nature and the relatively low switching costs of sourcing those products from different suppliers. Structural components and millwork, doors and windows often generate higher gross margins relative to other products due to their increased complexity and opportunity for efficiency gains. A shift in our sales mix towards the lumber and lumber sheet goods product category could negatively impact our gross margins. The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail. We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and technology. These initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow our employees to continue to provide high quality service to our customers, while simplifying customer interaction and providing our customers with a more interconnected purchasing experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers and employing new web-based tools and services, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. In the event that we continue to grow, there can be no assurance that we will be able to keep up, expand or adapt our IT infrastructure to meet evolving demand on a timely basis and at a commercially reasonable cost, or at all. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits or the initiatives might fail altogether. Furthermore, our customers are continuing to increasingly demand and rely on increased technology in their operations. We anticipate digitization trends in the home-building industry to continue and have made significant investments in technology solutions to further drive digitization of the home-building industry. While we believe such trends present opportunities for our business, we may be unsuccessful in keeping pace with the development of such technologies, which could result in loss of customers. We regularly invest resources to update and improve our internal information technology systems and software platforms. Should our investments not succeed, or if delays or other issues with new or existing internal technology systems and software platforms disrupt our operations, our business could be harmed. We rely on our network infrastructure, ERP systems, data hosting, public cloud and software-as-a-service providers, and internal technology systems for many of our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We are continually investing resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet existing needs, as well as the growing and changing requirements of our business and customers. If we experience prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in updating and upgrading our systems and architecture, including our new ERP system, we may experience outages and may not be able to deliver certain offerings or develop new offerings and enhancements that we need to remain competitive. Improvements, upgrades and, to a greater extent, system conversions, are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or may uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in outages, disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue or damage to our reputation. We occupy most of our facilities under long-term non-cancelable leases. We may be unable to renew leases at the end of their terms. If we close a facility, we are still obligated under the applicable lease. Most of our facilities are leased. Many of our leases are non-cancelable, typically have initial expiration terms ranging from five to 15 years and most provide options to renew for specified periods of time. We believe that leases we enter into in the future will likely be for similar terms (five to 15 years), will be non-cancelable and will feature similar renewal options. If we close or idle a facility we would remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent, insurance, taxes and other expenses on the leased property for the balance of the lease term. We have closed or idled a number of facilities for which we continue to remain liable. Our obligation to continue making rental payments with respect to leases for closed or idled facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. At the end of a lease term, for those locations where we have no renewal options remaining, we may be unable to renew the lease without additional cost, if at all. If we are unable to renew our facility leases, we may close or, if possible, relocate the facility, which could subject us to additional costs and risks which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the revenue and profit generated at a relocated facility may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the former operation. 16 Financial and Liquidity Risks Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt instruments . As of December 31, 2022, our debt totaled $3,015.4 million, which includes $201.4 million of finance lease and other finance obligations. We have a $1.8 billion revolving credit facility with maturity dates between December 17, 2026 and January 17, 2028 (“Revolving facility”), under which we had $264.0 million in outstanding borrowings and $128.9 million of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2022. In addition, we also have $505.2 million in obligations under operating leases. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our other indebtedness, resulting in possible defaults on and acceleration of such indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of our operating cash flow to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our liquidity and our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, share repurchases and retirement of debt; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, and corresponding increased interest expense, because borrowings under the Revolving facility are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing marketplace conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may have less debt; and • limiting our attractiveness as an investment opportunity for potential investors. In addition, our debt instruments contain cross-default provisions that could result in our debt being declared immediately due and payable under a number of debt instruments, even if we default on only one debt instrument. In such event, it is possible that we would not be able to satisfy our obligations under all of such accelerated indebtedness simultaneously. Our financial condition and operating performance, including that of our subsidiaries, are also subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. There are no assurances that we will maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations in an effort to meet our debt service and other obligations. The agreements governing our debt instruments restrict our ability to dispose of assets and to use the proceeds from such dispositions. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or be able to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. We may have future capital needs and may not be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. We are substantially reliant on cash on hand and borrowing availability under the Revolving facility, which totaled $1,487.5 million at December 31, 2022, to provide working capital and fund our operations. Our working capital requirements are likely to grow as we continue to grow organically and through acquisitions. Our inability to renew, amend or replace our debt instruments when required or when business conditions warrant could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic and credit market conditions, the performance of our industry, and our financial performance, as well as other factors, may constrain our financing abilities. Our ability to secure additional financing, if available, and to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, the availability of credit, economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Significant worsening of current housing market conditions or the macroeconomic factors that affect our industry could require us to seek additional capital and have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure such capital on favorable terms, if at all. 17 We may be unable to secure additional financing, financing on favorable terms or our operating cash flow may be insufficient to satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time. The agreements governing our debt instruments, moreover, restrict the amount of permitted indebtedness allowed. In addition, if financing is not available when needed, or is available on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of additional equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. We may incur additional indebtedness. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including collateralized debt, subject to the restrictions contained in the agreements governing our debt instruments. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our debt instruments contain various covenants that limit our ability to operate our business. Our financing arrangements, including the agreements governing our debt instruments, contain various provisions that limit our ability to, among other things: • transfer or sell assets, including the equity interests of our restricted subsidiaries, or use asset sale proceeds; • incur additional debt; • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain restricted payments or investments; • create liens to secure debt; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company or continue to receive the benefits of these financing arrangements under a “change in control” scenario (as defined in those agreements); and • engage in unrelated business activities. The agreement governing the Revolving facility contains a financial covenant requiring the satisfaction of a minimum fixed charge ratio of 1.00 to 1.00 if our excess availability falls below the greater of $80.0 million or 10% of the maximum borrowing amount, which was $180.0 million as of December 31, 2022. These provisions may restrict our ability to expand or fully pursue our business strategies. Our ability to comply with the agreements governing our debt instruments may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments, a change in control or other events beyond our control. The breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under our indebtedness, which could cause those and other obligations to become due and payable. If any of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay it. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly. Interest rates may increase in the future. As a result, interest rates on our Revolving facility could be higher or lower than current levels.  As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $264.0 million, or 8.8%, of our outstanding debt at variable interest rates.  If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. Further, an increase in interest rates could also trigger a limitation on the deductibility of those interest costs, increasing our tax expense and further decreasing our net income and cash flows. In recent years, the Company has executed several debt transactions designed to optimize our debt structure and extend maturities. The Company is likely to execute similar debt transactions in the future. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating the direction of interest rates or changes in market conditions, which could result in future debt transactions having a material adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. A 1.0% increase in interest rates on the Revolving facility would result in approximately $2.6 million in additional interest expense annually as we had $264.0 million in outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2022. The Revolving facility also assesses variable commitment and outstanding letter of credit fees based on quarterly average loan utilization. 18 If the housing market declines, we may be required to take impairment charges relating to our operations or temporarily idle or permanently close under-performing locations. If conditions in the housing industry continue to deteriorate we may need to take goodwill and/or asset impairment charges relating to certain of our reporting units. Any such non-cash charges would have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, in response to industry conditions, we may have to temporarily idle or permanently close certain facilities in under-performing markets. Widespread facility closures could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our inability to effectively deploy our excess capital may negatively affect return on equity and stockholder value. Throughout 2022, we generated significant excess cash flows. Our business plan calls for us to execute a variety of strategies to deploy excess capital including, but not limited to, continued organic balance sheet growth and the consideration of potential acquisition opportunities to further deploy our excess capital when we expect such opportunities to significantly enhance long-term stockholder value. We have also repurchased approximately $4.4 billion of our shares since January 2021 through the date of this filing, and intend to continue repurchasing shares pursuant to share repurchase authorization approved by our board of directors and announced on November 28, 2022. Our inability to effectively and timely deploy our excess capital through these strategies may constrain growth in earnings and return on equity and thereby diminish potential growth in stockholder value. Legal and Compliance Risks The nature of our business exposes us to product liability, product warranty, casualty, construction defect, asbestos, vehicle and other claims and legal proceedings. We are involved in product liability, product warranty, casualty, construction defect, asbestos, vehicle and other claims relating to the products we manufacture and distribute, and services we provide or have provided that, if adversely determined, could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with many of the products we sell and distribute. Because we have no direct control over the quality of such products manufactured or supplied by such third-party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products. The Company has a number of known and threatened construction defect legal claims. We are also involved in several asbestos personal injury suits due to the alleged sale of asbestos-containing products by legacy businesses that we acquired.  In addition, we are exposed to potential claims arising from the conduct of our respective employees and subcontractors, and builders and their subcontractors, for which we may be contractually liable. Although we currently maintain what we believe to be suitable and adequate insurance in excess of our self-insured amounts, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such insurance on acceptable terms or that such insurance will provide adequate protection against potential liabilities. Product liability, product warranty, casualty, construction defect, asbestos, vehicle, and other claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. Claims of this nature could also have a negative impact on customer confidence in our products and our company. In addition, we are involved on an ongoing basis in other types of legal proceedings, such as workers’ compensation proceedings. We cannot assure you that any current or future claims against us will not adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Federal, state, local and other regulations could impose substantial costs and/or restrictions on our operations that would reduce our net income. We are subject to various federal, state, local and other regulations, including, among other things, regulations promulgated by the Department of Transportation and applicable to our fleet of delivery trucks, work safety regulations promulgated by the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration, employment regulations, including immigration and work-authorization laws and regulations promulgated by the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, tariff regulations on imported products promulgated by the Federal government, accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or similar entities, state and local regulations relating to our escrow business, and state and local zoning restrictions and building codes. More burdensome regulatory requirements in these or other areas may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Moreover, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our business could expose us to substantial penalties that could adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows and damage our reputation. 19 Future changes to tax laws and regulations could have an adverse impact on our business. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likely outcome of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcome of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation. Any future changes in federal and state tax laws and regulations could have an adverse direct impact on our corporate taxes and/or an adverse indirect impact such as making purchasing a home less attractive, which could reduce demand for homes. Adverse impacts from any future changes in federal and state laws and regulations on our business could include an adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities and are subject to environmental regulation. We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Although we believe that our facilities are in material compliance with such laws, ordinances, and regulations, as owners and lessees of real property, we can be held liable for the investigation or remediation of contamination on such properties, in some circumstances, without regard to whether we knew of or were responsible for such contamination. No assurance can be provided that remediation may not be required in the future as a result of spills or releases of petroleum products or hazardous substances, the discovery of unknown environmental conditions, more stringent standards regarding existing residual contamination, or changes in legislation, laws, rules or regulations. More burdensome environmental regulatory requirements may increase our general and administrative costs and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. General Risks The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its contributory effects on the economy could adversely impact, our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations. While the level of disruption caused by, and the economic impact of, the COVID-19 pandemic lessened in 2022, there is no assurance that the pandemic will not worsen again, including as a result of the emergence of new strains of the virus, or another health-related emergency will not emerge. Any worsening of the pandemic, a new health-related emergency and their effects on the economy could have an adverse impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unstable global economic conditions may have serious adverse consequences on our business, financial condition, and operations. We are operating in an uncertain economic environment. The global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, high rates of inflation, and uncertainty about economic stability and a potential recession. While our management team continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint, we are unable to predict the duration or severity of such conditions or factors. If conditions were to worsen nationally, regionally or locally, then we could see a decrease in housing starts, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. In addition, the financial markets and the global economy may also be adversely affected by the current or anticipated impact of military conflict, including the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, which is increasing volatility in commodity and energy prices, creating supply chain issues and causing instability in financial markets. Sanctions imposed by the United States and other countries in response to such conflict could further adversely impact the financial markets and the global economy, and any economic countermeasures by the affected countries or others could exacerbate market and economic instability. The specific consequences of the conflict in Ukraine on our business is difficult to predict at this time, but in addition to inflationary pressures affecting our operations, any shortages of fuel or significant fuel cost increases could seriously disrupt our ability to distribute products to our customers. There can be no assurance that further deterioration in markets and confidence in economic conditions will not occur. Our general business strategy may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn or recession, volatile business environment, hostile third-party action or continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. The effects of any economic downturn or recession could continue for many years after the downturn or recession is considered to have ended. 20 We may be adversely affected by any natural or man-made disruptions to our operations and our distribution and manufacturing facilities. We currently maintain a broad network of distribution and manufacturing facilities throughout the U.S. Any widespread disruption to our operations resulting from fire, earthquake, weather-related events (such as tornadoes, hurricanes, flooding and other storms), other natural disasters, an act of terrorism, intrusions or failures of critical infrastructure such as the power grid or communications systems or any other cause could damage multiple facilities and a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers. Moreover, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it retakes for us to reopen or replace a damaged facility. If any of these events were to occur, our financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, general weather patterns affect our operating results throughout the year, with adverse weather historically reducing construction activity in the first and fourth quarters in the markets in which we primarily operate. Adverse weather events, natural disasters or similar events, including as a result of climate change, could generally reduce or delay construction activity, which could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Furthermore, if certain markets where we have made significant investments become less desirable for new home building due to the frequency of adverse weather events or climate change, we could incur significant losses at our facilities throughout these markets. ESG risks could adversely affect our reputation and shareholder, employee, customer and third party relationships and may negatively affect our stock price. Our business faces increasing public scrutiny related to ESG activities. We risk damage to our brand and reputation if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as DEI, environmental stewardship, including with respect to climate change, human capital management, support for our local communities, corporate governance and transparency, or fail to consider ESG factors in our business operations. Additionally, investors and shareholder advocates are placing an increasing emphasis on how corporations address ESG issues in their business strategy when making investment decisions and when developing their investment theses and proxy recommendations. We may incur meaningful costs with respect to our ESG efforts and if such efforts are negatively perceived, our reputation and stock price may suffer. Climate change could adversely affect our business and damage our reputation. Concerns over the long-term impacts of climate change have led and will continue to lead to governmental efforts around the world to mitigate those impacts. Consumers and businesses are also changing their behavior and business preferences as a result of these concerns. New governmental regulations or guidance relating to climate change, as well as changes in consumers’ and businesses’ behaviors and business preferences, may affect whether and on what terms and conditions we will engage in certain activities or offer certain products or services. The governmental and supervisory focus on climate change could also result in our becoming subject to new or heightened regulatory requirements. Any such new or heightened requirements could result in increased regulatory, compliance or other costs. Our business, reputation and ability to attract and retain employees may also be harmed if our response to climate change is perceived to be ineffective or insufficient. The price of our common stock is volatile and may decline. The market price of our common stock historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock market in recent years. For example, between January 1, 2022 and December 31, 2022, the closing price of our common stock on the NYSE ranged from $50.02 to $85.42 per share. In addition, the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, changes in customer relationships, acquisitions, or expansion plans; • changes in the prices of products we sell; • involvement in litigation; • our sale or repurchases of common stock or other securities in the future; 21 • market conditions in our industry; • changes in key personnel; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • the trading volume of our common stock; • changes in the estimation of the future size and growth rate of our markets; and • general economic and market conditions. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If we were involved in any similar litigation we could incur substantial costs and our management’s attention and resources could be diverted, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result, it may be difficult for you to resell your shares of common stock in the future.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this annual report on Form 10-K. See “Risk Factors” contained in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this annual report on Form 10-K and “Cautionary Statement” contained in Item 1. Business of this annual report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. OVERVIEW We are a leading supplier and manufacturer of building materials, manufactured components and construction services to professional contractors, sub-contractors and consumers. The Company operates 569 locations in 42 states across the United States. Given the span and depth of our geographical reach, our locations are organized into three geographical divisions (East, Central, and West), which are also our operating segments. All of our segments have similar customers, products and services, and distribution methods. Due to the similar economic characteristics, categories of products, distribution methods and customers, our operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment. We offer an integrated solution to our customers by providing manufacturing, supply, and installation of a full range of structural and related building products. Our manufactured products include our factory-built roof and floor trusses, wall panels, vinyl windows, custom millwork and trim, as well as engineered wood that we design, cut, and assemble for each home. We also assemble interior and exterior doors into pre-hung units. Additionally, we supply our customers with a broad offering of professional grade building products not manufactured by us, such as dimensional lumber and lumber sheet goods, various window, door and millwork lines along with other various building products. Our full range of construction-related services includes professional installation, turn-key framing and shell construction, and spans all our product categories. We group our building products into four product categories: • Lumber and Lumber Sheet Goods. Lumber and lumber sheet goods include dimensional lumber, plywood, and OSB products used in on-site house framing. • Manufactured Products. Manufactured products consist of wood floor and roof trusses, steel roof trusses, wall panels, and engineered wood. • Windows, Door and Millwork. Windows and doors are comprised of the manufacturing, assembly, and distribution of windows and the assembly and distribution of interior and exterior door units. Millwork includes interior trim and custom features that we manufacture, such as intricate mouldings, stair parts, and columns. • Specialty Building Products and Services. Specialty building products and services consist of various products, including vinyl, composite and wood siding, exterior trim, metal studs, cement, roofing, insulation, wallboard, ceilings, cabinets, and hardware. This category also includes services such as turn-key framing, shell construction, design assistance and professional installation of products spanning all of our product categories. We also offer software products through our Paradigm subsidiary, including drafting, estimating, quoting, and virtual home design services, which provide software solutions to retailers, distributors, manufacturers and homebuilders that boost sales, reduce costs, and help them become more competitive. Our operating results are dependent on the following trends, strategies, events and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control: • Homebuilding Industry and Market Competition. Our business is driven primarily by the residential new construction market and the residential repair and remodel market, which are in turn dependent upon a number of factors, including demographic trends, interest rates, consumer confidence, employment rates, housing affordability, household formation, land development costs, the availability of skilled construction labor, rising inflationary pressures, mortgage markets and the health of the economy. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the seasonally adjusted annual U.S. total and single-family housing starts were 1.4 million and 0.9 million, respectively, in 2022. Many factors have impacted and may continue to impact our sales and gross margins, including continued consolidation within the building products supply industry, increased competition for homebuilder business, supply chain constraints and cyclical fluctuations in commodity prices. Moreover, our industry remains highly fragmented and competitive, and we will continue to face significant competition from local and regional suppliers. As a result of various current market dynamics, including rising inflationary pressures, mortgage rate increases and shifts in housing affordability, industry forecasters, including the National Association of Home Builders (“NAHB”), expect to see housing demand soften near-term. Despite expected near-term tempered market conditions, we believe the housing industry remains underbuilt and that there are several meaningful trends that indicate U.S. housing demand will continue to be strong over the long-term, including the aging of housing stock and normal population growth due to immigration and birthrate exceeding death rate. 26 • Targeting Large Production Homebuilders. The homebuilding industry continues to undergo consolidation, and the larger homebuilders continue to increase their market share. We expect that trend to continue as larger homebuilders have better liquidity and land positions relative to the smaller, less capitalized homebuilders. Our focus is on maintaining relationships and market share with these customers while balancing the competitive pressures we face in servicing large homebuilders with certain profitability expectations. Additionally, we have been successful in expanding our custom homebuilder base while maintaining acceptable credit standards. • Repair and remodel end market .  While influenced by housing starts to a lesser degree than the homebuilding market, the repair and remodel market is still dependent upon some of the same factors, including demographic trends, interest rates, consumer confidence, employment rates, the health of the economy and home financing markets. As a result of these pressures, we may experience reduced sales demand, challenges in the supply chain, increased margin pressures and/or increased operating costs in this area of our business as a result.  We expect that our ability to remain competitive in this space will depend on our continued ability to provide a high level of customer service coupled with a broad product offering. • Use of Prefabricated Components. Homebuilders are increasingly using prefabricated components in order to realize increased efficiency, overcome skilled construction labor shortages and improve quality. Shortening cycle time from start to completion is a key imperative of the homebuilders during periods of strong consumer demand. As the availability of skilled construction labor remains limited, we continue to see the demand for prefabricated components increasing within the residential new construction market. • Economic Conditions. Economic changes both nationally and locally in our markets impact our financial performance. The building products supply industry is highly dependent upon new home construction and, to a lesser extent, repair and remodel activities, and is subject to cyclical market changes. Our operations are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in supply and demand, national and local economic conditions, labor costs and availability, competition, government regulation, trade policies, rising inflation and other factors that affect the homebuilding industry, such as demographic trends, increasing interest rates, housing starts, the high cost of land development, employment levels, consumer confidence, and the availability of credit to homebuilders, contractors, and homeowners. Disruptions and uncertainties as a result of a pandemic, or other health related emergency, like the COVID-19 pandemic, may have a significant impact on our future operating results. • Housing Affordability. The affordability of housing can be a key driver in demand for our products. Home affordability is influenced by a number of economic factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, supply of houses, the availability of financing and interest rates. Changes in the inventory of available homes and other economic factors relative to home prices could result in changes to the affordability of homes. As a result, homebuyer demand may shift toward smaller or larger homes creating fluctuations in demand for our products. • Cost and/or Availability of Materials. Prices of building materials, including wood products, are subject to cyclical market fluctuations, which may adversely impact operating income when prices rapidly rise or fall within a relatively short period of time. We purchase materials which are then sold to customers as well as used as direct production inputs for our manufactured and prefabricated products. Short-term changes in the cost and/or availability of these materials, some of which are subject to significant fluctuations, are often passed on to our customers, but our pricing quotation periods and market competition may limit our ability to pass on such price changes. We may also be limited in our ability to pass on increases on in-bound freight costs on our products. We may also experience challenges sourcing suitable products for our customers and may be forced to provide alternative materials as substitution for contracted orders. Our inability to pass on material price increases to our customers could adversely impact our operating results. • Controlling Expenses. Another important aspect of our strategy is controlling costs and striving to be a low total-cost building materials supplier in the markets we serve. We closely manage our working capital and operating expenses. Further, we pay careful attention to our logistics function and its effect on our shipping and handling costs. • Multifamily and Light Commercial Business. Our primary focus has been on single-family residential new construction and the repair and remodel end market. However, through recent acquisitions we have expanded our operational footprint in the multifamily and light commercial markets, growing our value-add components and millwork product offerings in this end market. We will continue to identify opportunities for profitable growth in these areas. • Capital Structure. We had $3,015.4 million of indebtedness as of December 31, 2022. We strive to optimize our capital structure to ensure that our financial needs are met in light of economic conditions, business activities, organic investments, opportunities for growth through acquisition and the overall risk characteristics of our underlying assets. In addition to these factors, we also evaluate our capital structure on the basis of our leverage ratio, our liquidity position, our debt maturity profile, our market capitalization, and market interest rates. As such, we may enter into various debt or equity transactions to appropriately manage and optimize our capital structure and liquidity needs. 27 RECENT DEVELOPMENTS Business Combinations During 2022 and through the date of this filing, we completed a number of acquisitions for a combined $722.3 million purchase price, net of cash acquired, including the acquisitions of (i) Panel Truss of Longview, Inc., Panel Truss – Hearne, LLC, Case-Hill, Inc., Panel Truss-Dallas, LLC, Truss Ops Trucking, LLC and Truss Ops, LLC (the “Texas Panel Truss Businesses”), (ii) Panel Truss – Oakwood, LLC, Panel Truss – Townville, LLC and Panel Truss – Ringgold, LLC (the “East Panel Truss Businesses”), (iii) Valley Truss Co., Inc. (“Valley Truss”), (iv) Odds-N-Ends, Inc., d/b/a HomCo Lumber & Hardware (“HomCo”), (v) Trussway, LLC and its subsidiaries (“Trussway”), (vi) Fulcrum Building Group Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries (“Fulcrum”), (vii) Pima Door and Supply and Sunrise Carpentry (“Pima”), and subsequent to year-end, (viii) Noltex Truss and its affiliates (“Noltex”). These acquisitions further expand our market footprint and provide additional operations in our value-add product categories and our multifamily customer segment and are further described in Note 3 and Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Company Shares Repurchases On February 18, 2022, the Company announced that its board of directors authorized the repurchase of $1.0 billion of its shares of common stock. On May 9, 2022, the board of directors authorized a new share repurchase program of $2.0 billion, which replaced the previous $1.0 billion program authorized in February 2022. On November 28, 2022, the board of directors authorized an additional $1.0 billion to the existing repurchase program for a total of $1.5 billion inclusive of the remaining outstanding authorization existing at that time. Under the share repurchase programs authorized by the board of directors since August of 2021, the Company has repurchased a total of 70.2 million shares of common stock, or approximately 34.0% of the Company’s total shares outstanding, at an average price of $62.58, including 41.9 million shares of common stock at an average price of $61.79 in 2022. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had approximately $967.2 million authorization remaining under its current share repurchase program. Share repurchases under the program may be made through a variety of methods, which may include open market purchases, block trades, accelerated share repurchase transactions, trading plans in accordance with Rule 10b-5 or Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, or any combination of such methods. The program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of its common stock, and the share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time at the Company’s discretion. Debt Transactions On January 21, 2022, the Company completed a private offering of an additional $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due 2032 (“4.25% 2032 notes”) at an issue price equal to 100.50% of par value. On February 4, 2022, the Company amended the previous credit facility to increase the total commitments by an aggregate amount of $400.0 million resulting in a new $1.8 billion amended credit facility. On June 15, 2022, the Company completed a private offering of $700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due 2032 (“6.375% 2032 notes,” and together with the 4.25% 2032 notes, the “2032 notes”) at an issue price equal to 100% of par value. Subsequently, on June 16, 2022, the Company redeemed the remaining $612.5 million in outstanding aggregate principal amount of  6.75% senior secured notes due 2027 (“2027 notes”). Subsequent to year-end, on January 17, 2023, the Company amended its revolving credit facility to extend the maturity on a portion of the total commitments by 13 months to January 17, 2028, and to include additional pricing tiers for the applicable margin. These transactions are described further in Notes 8 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Collectively, these transactions have extended our debt maturity. From time to time, based on market conditions and other factors and subject to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the Company may repurchase or call our notes, repay debt, repurchase shares of our common stock or otherwise enter into transactions regarding its capital structure. Departure and Appointment of President and Chief Executive Officer On November 18, 2022, Dave Flitman stepped down as President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) to accept another position outside of our industry and the board of directors announced the appointment of Dave Rush as interim CEO. Subsequently, on January 10, 2023, the board announced that Dave Rush had been named CEO, effectively immediately. Mr. Rush has 23 years of dedicated service to the company through which he also led the integrations of the BMC Merger and ProBuild acquisition as well as previously held the position of Chief Operating Officer of the Company’s East Division. 28 CURRENT OPERATING CONDITIONS AND OUTLOOK According to the U.S. Census Bureau, actual U.S. total housing starts for the year ended December 31, 2022 were 1.6 million, a decrease of 3.0% compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Actual U.S. single-family housing starts for the year ended December 31, 2022 were 1.0 million, a decrease of 10.6% compared to the year ended December 31 2021. A composite of third party sources, including the NAHB, are forecasting 1.3 million U.S. total housing starts and 0.9 million U.S. single-family housing starts for 2023, which are projected decreases of 16.6% and 11.6%, respectively, from 2022. In addition, in its September 2022 semi-annual forecast, the Home Improvement Research Institute (“HIRI”) forecasted sales in the professional repair and remodel end market to increase approximately 3.6% in 2023 compared to 2022. Our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 14.2% over the same period last year. The increase was driven by a 7.3% increase in sales related to acquisitions and core organic sales growth of 6.6%, primarily in our single-family and repair and remodel customer segments. Our gross margin percentage increased by 4.7% during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to core organic growth in value-added product categories, as well as disciplined pricing in a volatile, supply-constrained marketplace. Our selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales, were 17.5% in 2022, a 0.1% increase from 17.4% in 2021, largely due to additional operating expenses from locations acquired within the last twelve months, and higher wages and variable compensation costs as a result of increased net sales and profitability for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. We believe the long-term outlook for the housing industry is positive and that the housing industry remains underbuilt due to growth in the underlying demographics compared to historical new construction levels. However, rising interest rates and inflation may dampen near-term housing industry demand as homes become less affordable for consumers, investors and builders. We believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of the construction activity in our markets and to increase our market share, which may include strategic acquisitions. We will continue to focus on working capital by closely monitoring the credit exposure of our customers, remaining focused on maintaining the right level of inventory and by working with our vendors to improve payment terms. We strive to achieve the appropriate balance of short-term expense control while maintaining the expertise and capacity to grow the business as market conditions expand. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 can be found under Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022. 2022 Compared with 2021 The following table sets forth the percentage relationship to net sales of certain costs, expenses and income items for the years ended December 31: Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 were $22.7 billion, a 14.2% increase from net sales of $19.9 billion for 2021. Net sales from acquisitions and core organic sales growth increased net sales by 7.3% and 6.6% , respectively. Commodity price inflation added another 1.1% to net sales, partially offset by a 0.8% decrease in net sales due to two fewer selling days. 29 The following table shows net sales classified by major product category for the years ended December 31: We achieved increased net sales in all of our product categories except lumber and lumber sheet goods, primarily due to  acquisitions, and core organic sales growth. Lumber and lumber sheet goods net sales decreased primarily due to decreased housing starts throughout the second half of 2022 compared to 2021. Gross Margin. Gross margin increased $1.9 billion to $7.7 billion and our gross margin percentage increased to 34.1% in 2022 from 29.4% in 2021, a 4.7% increase. This increase was primarily attributable to core organic growth, particularly in value-added product categories, acquisitions, and from disciplined pricing in a volatile, supply-constrained marketplace. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.5 billion, or 14.7%. This increase in expenses was primarily due to additional operating expenses from locations acquired within the last twelve months and higher variable compensation costs as a result of higher sales and profitability.  As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased to 17.5% from 17.4%  in 2021. Interest Expense, Net. Interest expense was $198.4 million in 2022, an increase of $62.5 million from 2021. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher average debt balances and rising interest rates in 2022 compared to 2021, as well as the loss on extinguishment of $27.4 million related to the 2027 notes redemption, partially offset by $8.1 million expensed in 2021 related to the partial 2027 notes redemption and the Revolving facility amendment. Income Tax Expense. We recorded income tax expense of $822.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to income tax expense of $526.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $296.3 million, driven by an increase in income before income taxes in the current period. Our effective tax rate was approximately 23% in both 2022 and 2021. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our primary capital requirements are to fund working capital needs and operating expenses, meet required interest and principal payments, and to fund capital expenditures and potential future growth opportunities. Our capital resources at December 31, 2022 consist of cash on hand and borrowing availability under our Revolving facility. Our Revolving facility will be primarily used for working capital, general corporate purposes, and funding capital expenditures and growth opportunities. In addition, we may use the Revolving facility to assist debt consolidation. Availability under the Revolving facility is determined by a borrowing base. Our borrowing base consists of trade accounts receivable, inventory, other receivables which include progress billings and credit card receivables, and qualified cash that all meet specific criteria contained within the credit agreement, minus agent specified reserves. Net excess borrowing availability is equal to the maximum borrowing amount minus outstanding borrowings and letters of credit. 30 The following table shows our borrowing base and excess availability as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in millions): As of December 31, 2022, we had $264.0 million in outstanding borrowings under our Revolving facility and our net excess borrowing availability was $1.4 billion after being reduced by outstanding letters of credit of $128.9 million. Excess availability must equal or exceed a minimum specified amount, currently $180.0 million, or we are required to meet a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1:00 to 1:00. We were not in violation of any covenants or restrictions imposed by any of our debt agreements at December 31, 2022. Liquidity Our liquidity at December 31, 2022 was $1.5 billion, which consists of net borrowing availability under the Revolving facility and cash on hand. Our level of indebtedness results in significant interest expense and could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. From time to time, based on market conditions and other factors and subject to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, the Company may repurchase or call our notes, repay debt, or otherwise enter into transactions regarding its capital structure. Should the current industry conditions deteriorate or we pursue additional acquisitions, we may be required to raise additional funds through the sale of capital stock or debt in the public capital markets or in privately negotiated transactions. There can be no assurance that any of these financing options would be available on favorable terms, if at all. Alternatives to help supplement our liquidity position could include, but are not limited to, idling or permanently closing additional facilities, adjusting our headcount in response to current business conditions, attempts to renegotiate leases, managing our working capital and/or divesting of non-core businesses. There are no assurances that these steps would prove successful or materially improve our liquidity position. Consolidated Cash Flows A discussion regarding our consolidated cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 is presented below. A discussion regarding our consolidated cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 can be found under Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2022. 2022 Compared with 2021 Cash provided by operating activities was $3.6 billion in 2022, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $1.7 billion in 2021. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was largely the result of an increase in net income in 2022 of $1.0 billion, as well as a decrease in working capital of $0.8 billion. 31 For the year ended December 31, 2022 the Company used $1.0 billion in cash investing in acquisitions and property, plant and equipment. Compared to the prior year, the Company invested $0.4 billion less primarily due to $0.6 billion less spent on acquisitions, offset by $0.1 billion more as a net investment in property, plant and equipment and $0.1 billion cash proceeds in the prior year from the divestiture of our gypsum operations. Cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion in 2022, which consisted primarily of $2.6 billion in repurchases of common stock, $0.6 billion to redeem the outstanding 2027 notes, and net paydowns on the Revolving facility of $0.3 billion, offset by net proceeds from the issuance of $1.0 billion of 2032 notes. Cash used in financing activities was $0.8 billion for 2021, which consisted primarily of $1.7 billion in repurchases of common stock, cash used to extinguish $0.4 billion of debt acquired in the BMC merger and the redemption of $0.2 billion of the Company’s 2027 notes, partially offset by cash received from the issuance of $1.0 billion of 4.25 % 2032 notes and net borrowings under the Revolving facility of $0.5 billion. These transactions are described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures vary depending on prevailing business factors, including current and anticipated market conditions. Historically, capital expenditures have, for the most part, remained at relatively low levels in comparison to the operating cash flows generated during the corresponding periods. We expect our 2023 capital expenditures to be in the range of approximately $300 million to $350 million primarily related to rolling stock, equipment and facility expansion and improvements to support our operations. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Critical accounting policies are those that both are important to the accurate portrayal of a company’s financial condition and results, and require subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. In order to prepare financial statements that conform to generally accepted accounting principles, we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. Certain estimates are particularly sensitive due to their significance to the financial statements and the possibility that future events may be significantly different from our expectations. We have identified the following accounting policy that requires us to make the most subjective or complex judgments in order to fairly present our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire businesses over the estimated fair value of tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired, less liabilities assumed. At December 31, 2022, our goodwill balance was $3.5 billion, representing 32.6% of our total assets. We test goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year or at any other time when impairment indicators exist. Examples of such indicators that could cause us to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests include a significant change in the business climate, unexpected competition or a significant deterioration in market share. We may also consider market capitalization relative to our net assets. Housing starts are a significant sales driver for us. If there is a significant decline or an expected decline in housing starts, this could adversely affect our expectations for a reporting unit and the value of that reporting unit. The process of evaluating goodwill for impairment involves the determination of the fair value of our reporting units. Our reporting units are aligned with our three geographical divisions which are also determined to be our operating segments. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is not less than its carrying amount, then no further testing of the goodwill is required. However, if we determine that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. This test identifies both the existence of and the amount of goodwill impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds 32 its carrying amount, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in amount equal to that excess, limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. We assessed our goodwill balance at December 31, 2022 using a quantitative assessment. In performing the quantitative impairment test at December 31, 2022, we developed the fair value using a discounted cash flow methodology. Inherent in such fair value determinations are significant assumptions relating to future cash flows, expected future revenues, expected future profitability, the discount rate, the terminal value, and our interpretation of current economic indicators and market conditions and their impact on our strategic plans and operations. Due to the uncertainties associated with such estimates, interpretations and assumptions, actual results could differ from projected results, which could result in impairment of goodwill being recorded. Significant information and assumptions utilized in estimating future cash flows for quantitative goodwill impairment analyses include projections of revenue growth utilizing publicly available industry information such as lumber commodity prices and housing start forecasts developed by industry forecasters, including the NAHB. Expected future profitability reflects current headcount levels and cost structure and are flexed in future years based upon historical trends at various revenue levels. Long-term growth was based upon terminal value earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) multiples of 6.0x to reflect the relevant expected acquisition price. A discount rate of 11.0% was used and is intended to reflect the weighted average cost of capital for a potential market participant and includes all risks of ownership and the associated risks of realizing the stream of projected future cash flows. Decreasing the long-term growth to an EBITDA multiple of 5.0x, or increasing the discount rate by 1.0% to 12.0%, would not have changed the results of our impairment testing. At December 31, 2022, the fair values of each of our reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective carrying amounts. Factors that could negatively impact the estimated fair value of our reporting units and potentially trigger additional impairment include, but are not limited to, unexpected competition, lower than expected housing starts, an increase in market participant weighted average cost of capital, increases in material or labor cost, and significant declines in our market capitalization. Future impairment of goodwill would have the effect of decreasing our earnings or increasing our losses in such period, but would not impact our current outstanding debt obligations or compliance with covenants contained in the related debt agreements. We did not have any goodwill impairments in 2022, 2021 or 2020. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Information regarding recent accounting pronouncements is discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K.