********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently deems immaterial also may impact its business operations. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business including its financial performance, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Risks related to COVID-19 The Company faces risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic that could adversely affect its business and financial performance. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted, and may continue to disrupt, global automotive industry production volumes, and consumer purchases of light vehicles. In 2020, global vehicle production decreased, and some vehicle manufacturers, at times, completely shut down manufacturing operations in some countries and regions, including the United States and Europe. As a result, the Company has experienced, and may continue to experience, delays in the production and distribution of its products and the loss of sales. If the global economic effects caused by COVID-19 continue or increase, overall customer demand may decrease, which could further adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Throughout 2020, and to a lesser extent in 2021, global government directives and initiatives to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, such as the imposition of travel restrictions, closing of borders, stay-at-home orders, plant shutdowns, and lockdowns of cities and countries, materially impacted the Company’s operations. Furthermore, COVID-19 has impacted and may further impact the broader economies of affected countries, including negatively impacting economic growth, traditional functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. During 2021, trailing impacts of the shutdowns and production declines related, in part, to COVID-19 created supply constraints of certain components, particularly semiconductor chips. These supply constraints have had and are expected to continue to have significant impacts on global industry production levels. Due to the uncertainty of its duration and the timing of recovery, at this time, the Company is unable to predict the extent to which COVID-19, including its existing and future variants that may emerge, may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 on the Company’s operational and financial performance, including its ability to execute its business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frames, will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of 17 COVID-19, including variants, its severity, COVID-19 containment and treatment efforts, including the availability, efficacy, and acceptance of the vaccines and any related restrictions on travel. Furthermore, the duration, timing and severity of the impact on customer production, including any recession resulting from COVID-19, are uncertain and unpredictable.  An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption as a result of COVID-19 would have a further material negative impact on the Company’s business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition, although the full extent and duration are uncertain. Risks related to the Company’s strategy The Company’s Charging Forward strategy may prove unsuccessful. In 2021, the Company announced its strategy to aggressively grow its electrification portfolio over time through organic investments and technology-focused acquisitions, most recently through the 2021 acquisition of AKASOL as well as the 2020 purchase of Delphi Technologies. The Company believes it is well positioned for the industry’s anticipated migration to electric vehicles. Outlined in this strategy is a target to dispose of $3 to $4 billion in annual revenue from the Company’s combustion portfolio by 2025 with approximately $1 billion of that target to be delivered by the end of 2022. The Company is targeting revenue from products for pure electric vehicles to be over 25% of its total revenue by 2025 and approximately 45% of its total revenue by 2030. The Company may not meet its goals due to many factors, including any of the risks identified in the paragraph that follows, failure to develop new products that its customers will purchase, and technology changes that could render its products obsolete, or the introduction of new technology to which it does not have access, among other things. Additionally, there is no certainty that the Company will be able to dispose of certain internal combustion assets on favorable terms, if at all, and the disposition process is expected to consume significant management resources. The Company expects to continue to pursue business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances that leverage its technology capabilities and enhance its customer base, geographic representation, and scale to complement its current businesses. The Company regularly evaluates potential growth opportunities, some of which could be material. While it believes that such transactions are an integral part of its long-term strategy, there are risks and uncertainties related to these activities. Assessing a potential growth opportunity involves extensive due diligence. However, the amount of information the Company can obtain about a potential growth opportunity can be limited, and it can give no assurance that past or future business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances will positively affect its financial performance or will perform as planned. Assessing a price for potential transactions is inexact, particularly in a market that generally favors sellers and attaches a high multiple or premium on technology. The Company may not be able to successfully assimilate or integrate companies that it has acquired or will acquire in the future, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. Failure to execute the Company’s growth strategy could adversely affect its business. 18 The failure to realize the expected benefits of acquisitions and other risks associated with acquisitions could adversely affect the Company’s business. The success of the Company’s acquisitions is dependent, in part, on its ability to realize the expected benefits from combining the businesses of the Company and businesses that it acquires. To realize these anticipated benefits, both companies must be successfully combined, which is subject to the Company’s ability to consolidate operations, corporate cultures and systems and to eliminate redundancies and costs. If the Company is unsuccessful in combining companies, the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Further, there is potential for unknown or inestimable liabilities relating to the acquired businesses. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. The combination of independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process that requires significant management attention and resources. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of the Company’s operations, the inability to maintain or increase its competitive presence, inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the acquisition, the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters and/or difficulties in the assimilation of employees and corporate cultures. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and could have an adverse effect on the combined company. In addition, many of these factors are outside of the Company’s control, and any one of these factors could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and additional diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially adversely impact its business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to execute dispositions of assets or businesses successfully. When the Company decides to dispose of assets or a business, it may have difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the ability of the Company to achieve its strategic objectives. It may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than it had anticipated. Buyers of the assets or business may from time to time agree to indemnify the Company for operations of such businesses after the closing. The Company cannot be assured that any of these indemnification provisions will fully protect it, and as a result may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Company may experience fewer synergies than expected, and the impact of the disposition on its financial results may be larger than projected. After reaching an agreement for the disposition of a business, the Company is subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent it from completing the transaction. Such regulatory and governmental approvals may be required in jurisdictions around the world, and any delays in the timing of such approvals could materially delay or prevent the transaction. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are subject to periodic impairment evaluations, represent a significant portion of the Company’s total assets. An impairment charge on these assets could have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations. The Company has recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets related to acquisitions. It periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or macro-economic trends, disruptions to its business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, 19 unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, dispositions, and market capitalization declines may impair these assets, and any of these factors may be increasingly present during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The Company reviews goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment either annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The risk of impairment to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets is higher during the early years following an acquisition. This is because the fair values of these assets align very closely with what was paid to acquire the reporting units to which these assets are assigned. As a result, the difference between the carrying value of the reporting unit and its fair value (typically referred to as “headroom”) is smaller at the time of acquisition. Until this headroom grows over time, due to business growth or lower carrying value of the reporting unit, a relatively small decrease in reporting unit fair value can trigger impairment charges. When impairment charges are triggered, they tend to be material due to the size of the assets involved. Future acquisitions could present similar risks. Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in the periods recognized. Risks related to the Company’s industry Conditions in the automotive industry may adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s financial performance depends on conditions in the global automotive industry. Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors including interest rates, consumer credit, and consumer spending and preferences. Economic declines that result in significant reduction in automotive or truck production would have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales to OEMs. The Company faces strong competition. The Company competes worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Price, quality, delivery, technological innovation, engineering development and program launch support are the primary elements of competition. The Company’s competitors include vertically integrated units of its major OEM customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and international suppliers. Additionally, its competitors include start-ups that may be well funded, with the result that they could have more operational and financial flexibility than it has. A number of the Company’s competitors are larger than it is, and some competitors have greater financial and other resources than it does. Although OEMs have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside suppliers, a number of major OEM customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly compete with the Company’s products. These OEMs could elect to manufacture such products for their own uses in place of the products the Company currently supplies. The Company’s traditional OEM customers, faced with intense international competition, have continued to expand their worldwide sourcing of components. As a result, the Company has experienced competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs, lower tax rates and, in some cases, export or raw materials subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect the Company’s business. In addition, any of its competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than it does, develop products that are superior to its products, produce similar products at a cost that is lower than its cost, or adapt more quickly than it does to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. As a result, the Company’s products may not be able to compete successfully with its competitors' products, and it may not be able to meet the growing demands of customers. These trends may adversely affect the Company’s sales as well as the profit margins on its products. If the Company does not respond appropriately, the evolution of the automotive industry could adversely affect its business. 20 The automotive industry is increasingly focused on the development of hybrid and electric vehicles and of advanced driver assistance technologies, with the goal of developing and introducing a commercially viable, fully automated driving experience. There has also been an increase in consumer preferences for mobility on demand services, such as car and ride sharing, as opposed to automobile ownership, which may result in a long-term reduction in the number of vehicles per capita. In addition, some industry participants are exploring transportation through alternatives to automobiles. These evolving areas have also attracted increased competition from entrants outside the traditional automotive industry. If the Company does not continue to innovate and develop, or acquire, new and compelling products that capitalize upon new technologies in response to OEM and consumer preferences, this could have an adverse impact on its results of operations. Risks related to the Company’s business The Company is under substantial pressure from OEMs to reduce the prices of its products. There is substantial and continuing pressure on OEMs to reduce costs, including costs of products the Company supplies. OEM customers expect annual price reductions in its business. To maintain its profit margins, the Company seeks price reductions from its suppliers, improved production processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, and streamlined product designs to reduce costs, and it attempts to develop new products, the benefits of which support stable or increased prices. The Company’s ability to pass through increased raw material costs to its OEM customers is limited, with cost recovery often less than 100% and often on a delayed basis. Inability to reduce costs in an amount equal to annual price reductions, increases in raw material costs, and increases in employee wages and benefits could have an adverse effect on its business. The Company continues to face volatile costs of commodities used in the production of its products. The Company uses a variety of commodities (including aluminum, copper, nickel, plastic resins, steel, other raw materials and energy) and materials purchased in various forms such as castings, powder metal, forgings, stampings and bar stock. Increasing commodity costs will have an impact on its results. The Company has sought to alleviate the impact of increasing costs by including a material pass-through provision in its customer contracts wherever possible and by selectively hedging certain commodity exposures. Customers frequently challenge these contractual provisions and rarely pay the full cost of any increases in the cost of materials. The discontinuation or lessening of the Company’s ability to pass through or hedge increasing commodity costs could adversely affect its business. From time to time, commodity prices may also fall rapidly. If this happens, suppliers may withdraw capacity from the market until prices improve which may cause periodic supply interruptions. The same may be true of transportation carriers and energy providers.  If these supply interruptions occur, it could adversely affect the Company’s business. Changes in U.S. administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements and any resulting changes in international trade relations, may have an adverse effect on the Company. The United States has maintained tariffs on certain imported steel, aluminum and items originating from China. These tariffs have increased the cost of raw materials and components the Company purchases. The imposition of tariffs by the United States has resulted in retaliatory tariffs from a number of countries, including China, which increase the cost of products the Company sells. If the U.S. or other countries impose additional tariffs, that will have a further adverse impact on its business. 21 The Company uses important intellectual property in its business. If it is unable to protect its intellectual property or if a third party makes assertions against it or its customers relating to intellectual property rights, the Company’s business could be adversely affected. The Company owns important intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, and is involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Its intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining its competitive position in a number of the markets that it serves. The Company’s competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to its proprietary technologies or design around the patents it owns or licenses. Further, as it expands its operations in jurisdictions where the enforcement of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of others duplicating the Company’s proprietary technologies increases, despite efforts it undertakes to protect them. The Company’s inability to protect or enforce its intellectual property rights or claims that it is infringing intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect its business and its competitive position. The Company is subject to business continuity risks associated with increasing centralization of its information technology (IT) systems. To improve efficiency and reduce costs, the Company has regionally centralized the information systems that support its business processes such as invoicing, payroll, and general management operations.  If the centralized systems are disrupted or disabled, key business processes could be interrupted, which could adversely affect its business. A failure of or disruption in the Company’s information technology infrastructure, including a disruption related to cybersecurity, could adversely impact its business and operations. The Company relies on the capacity, reliability and security of its IT systems and infrastructure. IT systems are vulnerable to disruptions, including those resulting from natural disasters, cyber-attacks or failures in third-party provided services. Disruptions and attacks on the Company’s IT systems pose a risk to the security of its systems and its ability to protect its networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of information and data and that of third parties, including its employees. Some cyber-attacks depend on human error or manipulation, including phishing attacks or schemes that use social engineering to gain access to systems or carry out disbursement of funds or other frauds, which raise the risks from such events and the costs associated with protecting against such attacks.  Although it has implemented security policies, processes, and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of its systems and information, and disruptions of its operations, the Company has been, and likely will continue to be, subjected to such attacks or disruptions. Future attacks or disruptions could potentially lead to the inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, including the Company’s intellectual property, improper use of its systems and networks, access to and manipulation and destruction of Company or third-party data, production downtimes, lost revenues, inappropriate disbursement of funds and both internal and external supply shortages. In addition, the Company may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by such attacks or disruptions in the future. These consequences could cause significant damage to the Company’s reputation, affect its relationships with its customers and suppliers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately adversely affect its business. The Company’s business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. The Company’s ability to sustain and grow its business requires it to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce worldwide.  In particular, any unplanned turnover or inability to attract and retain key employees and employees with engineering, technical and software capabilities in numbers sufficient for its needs could adversely affect its business. 22 The Company’s profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected by program launch difficulties. The launch of new business is a complex process, the success of which depends on a wide range of factors, including the production readiness of the Company’s manufacturing facilities and manufacturing processes and those of its suppliers, as well as factors related to tooling, equipment, employees, initial product quality and other factors. The Company’s failure to successfully launch new business, or its inability to accurately estimate the cost to design, develop and launch new business, could have an adverse effect on its profitability and results of operations. To the extent the Company is not able to successfully launch new business, vehicle production at its customers could be significantly delayed or shut down. Such situations could result in significant financial penalties to the Company or a diversion of personnel and financial resources to improving launches rather than investment in continuous process improvement or other growth initiatives and could result in its customers shifting work away from it to a competitor, all of which could result in loss of revenue or loss of market share and could have an adverse effect on its profitability and cash flows. Part of the Company’s workforce is unionized which could subject it to work stoppages. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 13% of the Company’s U.S. workforce was unionized. The Company has a domestic collective bargaining agreement for one facility in New York, which expires in September 2024. The workforce at certain of its international facilities is also unionized. A prolonged dispute with its employees could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Work stoppages, production shutdowns and similar events could significantly disrupt the Company’s business. Because the automotive industry relies heavily on just-in-time delivery of components during the assembly and manufacture of vehicles, a work stoppage or production shutdown at one or more of the Company’s manufacturing and assembly facilities could have adverse effects on its business. Similarly, if one or more of its customers were to experience a work stoppage or production shutdown, that customer would likely halt or limit purchases of the Company’s products, which could result in the shutdown of the related manufacturing facilities. A significant disruption in the supply of a key component due to supply constraints, such as the constraints experienced in 2021 related to semiconductor chips, or due to a work stoppage or production shutdown at one of the Company’s suppliers or any other supplier could have the same consequences and, accordingly, have an adverse effect on its financial results. Changes in interest rates and asset returns could increase the Company’s pension funding obligations and reduce its profitability. The Company has unfunded obligations under certain of its defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The valuation of its future payment obligations under the plans and the related plan assets is subject to significant adverse changes if the credit and capital markets cause interest rates and projected rates of return to decline. Such declines could also require the Company to make significant additional contributions to its pension plans in the future. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase the Company’s pension expenses and reduce profitability in the future. The Company also sponsors post-employment medical benefit plans in the U.S. that are unfunded. If medical costs continue to increase or actuarial assumptions are modified, this could have an adverse effect on its business. The Company is subject to extensive environmental regulations. 23 The Company’s operations are subject to laws governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to waters, and the generation, management, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. The operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, and the Company cannot assure that it will not incur material costs or liabilities as a result. Through various acquisitions over the years, the Company has acquired a number of manufacturing facilities, and it cannot assure that it will not incur material costs and liabilities relating to activities that predate its ownership. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with evolving interpretations of existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or any new such laws and regulations (including concerns about global climate change and its impact) that may be adopted in the future. Costs associated with failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company has liabilities related to environmental, product warranties, litigation and other claims. The Company and certain of its current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws, and, as such, may be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial activities at such sites. While responsibility for clean-up and other remedial activities at such sites is typically shared among potentially responsible parties based on an allocation formula, the Company could have greater liability under applicable statutes. Refer to Note 21, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in item 8 of this report for further discussion. The Company provides product warranties to its customers for some of its products. Under these product warranties, the Company may be required to bear costs and expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, auto manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with recalls and product warranty claims. A recall claim brought against the Company, or a product warranty claim brought against it, could adversely impact its results of operations. In addition, a recall claim could require it to review its entire product portfolio to assess whether similar issues are present in other product lines, which could result in significant disruption to its business and could have an adverse impact on its results of operations. The Company cannot assure that costs and expenses associated with these product warranties will not be material or that those costs will not exceed any amounts accrued for such product warranties in its financial statements. The Company is currently, and may in the future become, subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These claims typically arise in the normal course of business and may include, but not be limited to, commercial or contractual disputes with the Company’s customers and suppliers, intellectual property matters, personal injury, product liability, environmental and employment claims. There is a possibility that such claims may have an adverse impact on the Company’s business that is greater than it anticipates. While the Company maintains insurance for certain risks, the amount of insurance may not be adequate to cover all insured claims and liabilities. The incurring of significant liabilities for which there is no, or insufficient, insurance coverage could adversely affect the Company’s business. 24 Compliance with and changes in laws could be costly and could affect operating results. The Company has operations in multiple countries that can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which it operates. Compliance-related issues in certain countries associated with laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws could adversely affect its business. The Company has internal policies and procedures relating to compliance with such laws; however, there is a risk that such policies and procedures will not always protect it from the improper acts of employees, agents, business partners, joint venture partners, or representatives, particularly in the case of recently acquired operations that may not have significant training in applicable compliance policies and procedures. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties, sanctions and/or fines that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations and reputation. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings, and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, in particular, changes in import and export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where the Company operates or intends to operate. Changes in tax laws or tax rates taken by taxing authorities and tax audits could adversely affect the Company’s business. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities, and the inability to fully utilize its tax loss carryforwards and tax credits could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. In addition, the Company may periodically restructure its legal entity organization. If taxing authorities were to disagree with the Company’s tax positions in connection with any such restructurings, its effective tax rate could be materially affected. The Company’s tax filings for various periods are subject to audit by the tax authorities in most jurisdictions where it conducts business. The Company has received tax assessments from various taxing authorities and is currently at varying stages of appeals and/or litigation regarding these matters. These audits may result in assessment of additional taxes that are resolved with the authorities or through the courts. The Company believes these assessments may occasionally be based on erroneous and even arbitrary interpretations of local tax law. Resolution of any tax matters involves uncertainties, and there are no assurances that the outcomes will be favorable. There could be significant liability if the previous Delphi Technologies separation from its former parent fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On December 4, 2017, Delphi Technologies became an independent publicly traded company, following its separation from Aptiv PLC, formerly known as Delphi Automotive PLC. The separation was completed in the form of a pro-rata distribution of 100% of Delphi Technologies ordinary shares to Aptiv’s shareholders. Aptiv received an opinion from its tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution qualified as a distribution under Section 355(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, subject to certain qualifications and limitations. Based on this tax treatment, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to cash received in lieu of a fractional Delphi Technologies ordinary share, Aptiv shareholders did not recognize a gain or loss or include any amount in their income upon the receipt of Delphi Technologies ordinary shares in the distribution. The opinion was based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Aptiv and Delphi Technologies, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, Aptiv may not be able to rely on the opinion, 25 and Aptiv’s shareholders could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable to Aptiv’s shareholders if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. In addition, Aptiv expects that restructuring transactions that it undertook in connection with the distribution will be taxed in a certain manner. If, contrary to Aptiv’s expectations, such transactions are taxed in a different manner, Aptiv and/or Delphi Technologies may incur additional tax liabilities that may be substantial. If the Company is required to pay any such liabilities, the payments could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial position. As a result of the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, the Company is required to indemnify Aptiv against taxes that Aptiv incurs that arise as a result of the Company taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a distribution under Section 355(a) of the Code or that result in certain restructuring transactions in connection with the distribution failing to meet the requirements for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company is subject to risks related to its international operations. The Company has manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions including Europe, Asia, and the Americas. For 2021, approximately 83% of its consolidated net sales were outside the U.S. Consequently, the Company’s results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, limitations on the repatriation of funds, changing economic conditions, unreliable intellectual property protection and legal systems, insufficient infrastructures, social unrest, political instability and disputes, international terrorism and other factors that may be discrete to a particular country or geography. Compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations of various countries is challenging, burdensome and expensive. The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. Dollars using the period-end exchange rate for assets and liabilities and an average exchange rate for each period for revenues, expenses and capital expenditures. The local currency is typically the functional currency for the Company's foreign subsidiaries. Significant foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translation of those foreign currencies could adversely affect the Company’s business. Additionally, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Korean Won and Chinese Renminbi, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of the Company’s businesses’ operations that could negatively affect its results of operations. Because the Company is a U.S. holding company, one significant source of its funds is distributions from its non-U.S. subsidiaries. Certain countries in which the Company operates have adopted or could institute currency exchange controls that limit or prohibit the Company’s local subsidiaries' ability to convert local currency into U.S. Dollars or to make payments outside the country. This could subject the Company to the risks of local currency devaluation and business disruption. The Company’s business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic, political, and market conditions. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of the Company’s global growth strategy. The automotive supply market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the Chinese market evolves, the Company anticipates that market participants will act aggressively to increase or maintain their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and its inability to gain or hold market share. In addition, the Company’s business in China is sensitive to economic, 26 political, social and market conditions that drive sales volumes in China. Economic growth has slowed in China. If it is unable to maintain its position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease, the Company’s business and financial results could be adversely affected. A downgrade in the ratings of the Company’s debt could restrict its ability to access the debt capital markets. Changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the Company’s debt may ultimately impact its access to the debt capital markets and the costs it incurs to borrow funds. If ratings for its debt fall below investment grade, the Company’s access to the debt capital markets could become restricted and its cost of borrowing or the interest rate for any subsequently issued debt would likely increase. The Company’s revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for its debt are downgraded.  The interest costs on its revolving credit agreement are based on a rating grid agreed to in its credit agreement.  Further, an increase in the level of its indebtedness and related interest costs may increase the Company’s vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect its ability to obtain additional financing. The Company could incur additional restructuring charges as it continues to execute actions in an effort to improve future profitability and competitiveness and to optimize its product portfolio and may not achieve the anticipated savings and benefits from these actions. The Company has initiated and may continue to initiate restructuring actions designed to improve the competitiveness of its business and sustain its margin profile, optimize its product portfolio or create an optimal legal entity structure. The Company may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future actions in full or in part or within the time periods it expects. It is also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with its actions. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from its actions could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Risks related to the Company’s customers The Company relies on sales to major customers. The Company relies on sales to OEMs around the world of varying credit quality and manufacturing demands. Supply to several of these customers requires significant investment by the Company. The Company bases its growth projections, in part, on commitments made by its customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a program life cycle. Among other things, the level of production orders the Company receives is dependent on the ability of its OEM customers to design and sell products that consumers desire to purchase. If actual production orders from its customers do not approximate such commitments due to a variety of factors including non-renewal of purchase orders, a customer's financial hardship or other unforeseen reasons, it could adversely affect the Company’s business. Some of the Company’s sales are concentrated. The Company’s worldwide sales in 2021 to Ford and Volkswagen constituted approximately 10% and 9% of its 2021 consolidated net sales, respectively. 27 The Company is sensitive to the effects of its major customers’ labor relations. All three of the Company’s primary North American customers, Ford, Stellantis, and General Motors, have major union contracts with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America. Because of domestic OEMs’ dependence on a single union, the Company is affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at OEMs’ facilities. Similarly, a majority of the Company’s global customers' operations outside of North America are also represented by various unions. Any extended work stoppage at one or more of its customers could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. Risks related to the Company’s suppliers The Company could be adversely affected by supply shortages of components from its suppliers. In an effort to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods and services, the Company has been rationalizing its supply base. As a result, it remains dependent on fewer sources of supply for certain components used in the manufacture of its products. The Company selects suppliers based on total value (including total landed price, quality, delivery, and technology), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition. The Company expects that they will deliver to the Company’s stated written expectations. However, there can be no assurance that capacity limitations, industry shortages, labor or social unrest, weather emergencies, commercial disputes, government actions, riots, wars, sabotage, cyber-attacks, non-conforming parts, acts of terrorism, “Acts of God,” or other problems that the Company’s suppliers experience will not result in occasional shortages or delays in their supply of components to it. During 2021, trailing impacts of the shutdowns and production declines related, in part, to COVID-19, created supply constraints of certain components, particularly semiconductor chips. These supply constraints have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant impacts on global industry production levels. If the Company is to experience a prolonged shortage of critical components from any of its suppliers and cannot procure the components from other sources, it may be unable to meet the production schedules for some of its key products and could miss customer delivery expectations. In addition, with fewer sources of supply for certain components, each supplier may perceive that it has greater leverage and, therefore, some ability to seek higher prices from the Company at a time that it faces substantial pressure from OEMs to reduce the prices of its products. This could adversely affect the Company’s customer relations and business. Suppliers’ economic distress could result in the disruption of the Company’s operations and could adversely affect its business. Rapidly changing industry conditions such as volatile production volumes; the Company’s need to seek price reductions from its suppliers as a result of the substantial pressure it faces from OEMs to reduce the prices of its products; credit tightness; changes in foreign currencies; raw material, commodity, tariffs, transportation, and energy price escalation; drastic changes in consumer preferences; and other factors could adversely affect the Company’s supply chain, and sometimes with little advance notice. These conditions could also result in increased commercial disputes and supply interruption risks. In certain instances, it would be difficult and expensive for the Company to change suppliers that are critical to its business. On occasion, the Company must provide financial support to distressed suppliers or take other measures to protect its supply lines. The Company cannot predict with certainty the potential adverse effects these costs might have on its business. 28 The Company is subject to possible insolvency of financial counterparties. The Company engages in numerous financial transactions and contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit, credit line agreements, financial derivatives, and investment management agreements involving various counterparties. The Company is subject to the risk that one or more of these counterparties may become insolvent and, therefore, be unable to meet its obligations under such contracts. Other risks A variety of other factors could adversely affect the Company’s business. Any of the following could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business: the loss of or changes in supply contracts or sourcing strategies of the Company’s major customers or suppliers; start-up expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or cancellation of such programs; low levels of utilization of the Company’s manufacturing facilities, which can be dependent on a single product line or customer; inability to recover engineering and tooling costs; market and financial consequences of recalls that may be required on products the Company supplied; delays or difficulties in new product development; the possible introduction of similar or superior technologies by others; global excess capacity and vehicle platform proliferation; and the impact of fire, flood, or other natural disasters including pandemics and quarantines.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

INTRODUCTION BorgWarner Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (the “Company” or “BorgWarner”) is a global product leader in clean and efficient technology solutions for combustion, hybrid and electric vehicles. BorgWarner’s products help improve vehicle performance, propulsion efficiency, stability and air quality. These products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of light vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles (“SUVs”), vans and light trucks). The Company’s products are also sold to other OEMs of commercial vehicles (medium-duty trucks, heavy-duty trucks and buses) and off-highway vehicles (agricultural and construction machinery and marine applications). The Company also manufactures and sells its products to certain tier one vehicle systems suppliers and into the aftermarket for light, commercial and off-highway vehicles. The Company operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in Europe, the Americas and Asia and is an original equipment supplier to nearly every major automotive OEM in the world. Charging Forward - Electrification Portfolio Strategy In 2021, the Company announced its strategy to aggressively grow its electrification portfolio over time through organic investments and technology-focused acquisitions, most recently through the 2021 acquisition of AKASOL AG (“AKASOL”) as well as the 2020 purchase of Delphi Technologies PLC (“Delphi Technologies”). The Company believes it is well positioned for the industry’s anticipated migration to electric vehicles. Additionally, the Company announced a plan to dispose of certain internal combustion assets, targeting dispositions of assets generating approximately $1 billion in annual revenue in the succeeding 12 to 18 months and approximately $3 to $4 billion in annual revenue by 2025. The Company is targeting its revenue from products for pure electric vehicles to be over 25% of its total revenue by 2025 and approximately 45% of its total revenue by 2030. Acquisition of AKASOL AG On June 4, 2021, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, ABBA BidCo AG (“ABBA BidCo”), completed its voluntary public takeover offer for shares of AKASOL, resulting in ownership of 89% of AKASOL’s outstanding shares. The Company paid approximately €648 million ($788 million) to settle the offer from current cash balances, which included proceeds received from its public offering of 1.00% Senior Notes due 2031 completed on May 19, 2021. Following the settlement of the offer, AKASOL became a consolidated majority-owned subsidiary of the Company. The Company also consolidated approximately €64 million ($77 million) of gross debt of AKASOL. Subsequent to the completion of the voluntary public takeover offer, the Company purchased additional shares of AKASOL for €28 million ($33 million) increasing its ownership to 93% as of December 31, 2021. The acquisition further strengthens BorgWarner’s commercial vehicle and industrial electrification capabilities, which positions the Company to capitalize on what it believes to be a fast-growing battery module and pack market. On August 2, 2021, the Company initiated a merger squeeze out process under German law for the purpose of acquiring 100% of AKASOL. On December 17, 2021, the shareholders of AKASOL voted to mandatorily transfer to ABBA BidCo. AG, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, each issued and outstanding share of AKASOL held by shareholders that did not tender their shares in the Company’s previously completed exchange offer for AKASOL shares (the “Squeeze Out”). In exchange for the AKASOL shares transferred in the Squeeze Out, the Company will pay appropriate cash compensation, in the amount of €119.16 per share. On February 10, 2022, the Company completed the registration of the Squeeze Out resulting in 100% ownership. The Company expects to settle the Squeeze Out with AKASOL minority shareholders in the first quarter of 2022. Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions and Dispositions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. 34 Acquisition of Delphi Technologies PLC On October 1, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Delphi Technologies from its shareholders pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Agreement, dated January 28, 2020, as amended on May 6, 2020, by and between the Company and Delphi Technologies. The acquisition has strengthened the Company’s electronics and power electronics products, strengthened its capabilities and scale, enhanced key combustion, commercial vehicle and aftermarket product offerings, and positioned the Company for greater growth as electrified propulsion systems gain momentum. Refer to Note 2, “Acquisitions and Dispositions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. Results of operations for AKASOL and Delphi Technologies are included in the Company’s financial information following their respective dates of acquisition. COVID-19 Pandemic and Other Supply Disruptions Throughout 2020, COVID-19 materially impacted the Company’s business and results of operations. Following the declaration of COVID-19 as a global pandemic on March 11, 2020, government authorities around the world began to impose shelter-in-place orders and other restrictions. As a result, many OEMs began suspending manufacturing operations, particularly in North America and Europe. This led to various temporary closures of, or reduced operations at, the Company’s manufacturing facilities, late in the first quarter of 2020 and throughout the second quarter of 2020. During the second half of 2020, as global management of COVID-19 evolved and government restrictions were removed or lessened, production levels improved, and substantially all of the Company’s production facilities resumed closer to normal operations by the end of the third quarter of 2020. During 2021, trailing impacts of the shutdowns and production declines related, in part, to COVID-19 created supply constraints of certain components, particularly semiconductor chips. These supply constraints have had, and are expected to continue to have, significant impacts on global industry production levels. In addition, it is possible a resurgence of COVID-19 could result in adverse impacts in the future. Management cannot reasonably estimate the full impact the ongoing supply constraints or the COVID-19 pandemic could have on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the future. Bond Offering On May 19, 2021, in anticipation of the acquisition of AKASOL and to refinance the Company’s €500 million 1.8% senior notes due in November 2022, the Company issued €1.0 billion in 1.0% senior notes due May 2031. Interest is payable annually in arrears on May 19 of each year. These senior notes are not guaranteed by any of the Company’s subsidiaries. On June 18, 2021, the Company repaid its €500 million 1.8% senior notes due November 2022 and incurred a loss on debt extinguishment of $20 million, which is reflected in Interest expense, net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. 35 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A detailed comparison of the Company’s 2019 operating results to its 2020 operating results can be found in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in the Company’s 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 22, 2021. The following table presents a summary of the Company’s operating results: Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 totaled $14,838 million, an increase of 46% from the year ended December 31, 2020. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the net impact of acquisitions, primarily related to legacy Delphi Technologies, increased revenues by $3,328 million from the year ended December 31, 2020. Stronger foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, Chinese Renminbi and Korean Won, increased net sales by approximately $270 million. The net increase excluding these items was primarily due to increased demand for the Company’s products. In addition, net sales were favorably impacted by the recovery of global markets from the negative effects of COVID-19 on 2020 production. However, this recovery was largely offset by supply constraints related to certain components, particularly semiconductor chips, that negatively impacted global automotive production in 2021. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 80.8% and 81.2% in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2021, acquisitions, primarily related to legacy Delphi Technologies, increased cost of sales. The Company’s material cost of sales was approximately 54% and 57% of net sales in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease in material cost as a percentage of sales reflects the lower material costs associated with the legacy Delphi Technologies business. Gross profit and gross margin were $2,855 million and 19.2%, respectively during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $1,910 million and 18.8%, 36 respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in gross margin in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily due to the impact of increased sales, partially offset by a higher warranty provision due to an unfavorable customer warranty settlement in December 2021 and increases in commodity and other costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) were $1,460 million and $951 million, or 9.8% and 9.4% of net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in SG&A was primarily related to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, increased investments in research and development and the reinstated costs related to specific cost reduction actions taken in response to COVID-19 during 2020. Research and development (“R&D”) costs, net of customer reimbursements, were $707 million, or 4.8% of net sales, in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $476 million, or 4.7% of net sales, in the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase of R&D costs, net of customer reimbursements, in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, which increased R&D costs by approximately $200 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, as well as higher investment to support the continued development of the Company’s electrification portfolio. The Company will continue to invest in R&D programs, which are necessary to support short- and long-term growth. The Company’s current long-term expectation for R&D spending is in the range of 5.0% to 5.5% of net sales. Restructuring expense was $163 million and $203 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, primarily related to employee benefit costs. Refer to Note 4 “Restructuring” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. In February 2020, the Company announced a restructuring plan to address existing structural costs. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded $103 million and $148 million of restructuring expense related to this plan, respectively. Cumulatively, the Company has incurred $251 million of restructuring charges related to this plan. These actions are expected to result in a total of $300 million of restructuring costs through 2022. The resulting annual gross savings are expected to be $90 million to $100 million and will be utilized to sustain overall operating margin profile and cost competitiveness. Nearly all of the restructuring charges are expected to be cash expenditures. In 2019, legacy Delphi Technologies announced a restructuring plan to reshape and realign its global technical center footprint and reduce salaried and contract staff. The Company continued actions under this program post-acquisition and has recorded cumulative charges of $62 million since October 1, 2020. This includes approximately $60 million in restructuring charges during the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily for the statutory minimum benefits and incremental one-time termination benefits negotiated with local labor authorities. The majority of these actions under this program have been completed. Additionally, the Company recorded approximately $54 million in restructuring during the three months ended December 31, 2020, for acquisition-related restructuring charges. In conjunction with the Delphi Technologies acquisition, there were contractually required severance and post-combination stock-based compensation cash payments to legacy Delphi Technologies executive officers and other employee termination benefits. Other operating expense, net was $81 million and $138 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, merger, acquisition and divestiture related expenses were $50 million and $96 million, respectively. The decrease in 2021 was primarily related to higher professional fees in 2020 associated with the acquisition of Delphi Technologies. 37 During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded pre-tax losses of $22 million on the sale of its Water Valley, Mississippi facility and $7 million in connection with the sale of an e-Propulsion & Drivetrain technical center in Europe. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $14 million to reduce its carrying value of an indefinite-lived trade name to the fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded asset impairment costs of $9 million in the Air Management segment and $8 million in the e-Propulsion & Drivetrain segment related to the write downs of property, plant and equipment associated with the announced closures of two European facilities. Additionally, as a result of an evaluation of certain underlying technologies subsequent to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, the Company reduced the useful life of certain intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2020 as they no longer provided future economic benefit. This resulted in accelerated amortization expense of $38 million. Other operating expense, net is primarily comprised of items included within the subtitle “Non-comparable items impacting the Company’s earnings per diluted share and net earnings” below. Equity in affiliates’ earnings, net of tax was $48 million and $18 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. This line item is driven by the results of the Company’s unconsolidated joint ventures. The increase in equity in affiliates’ earnings in the year ended December 31, 2021 was due to the recovery from negative effects of COVID-19 on 2020 production. Unrealized loss (gain) on equity securities included a loss of $362 million and a gain of $382 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. This line item reflects the net unrealized gains or losses recognized primarily related to the Company’s investment in Romeo Power, Inc. For further details, see Note 2, “Acquisitions and Dispositions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Interest expense, net was $93 million and $61 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to the Company’s $20 million loss on debt extinguishment related to the early repayment of its €500 million 1.800% senior notes settled on June 18, 2021, the Company’s issuance of €1 billion 1.000% senior notes in May 2021 to support the AKASOL acquisition, and the Company’s $1.1 billion senior notes issuance in June 2020. Other postretirement income was $45 million and $7 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in other postretirement income for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to the assumption of Delphi Technologies pension plans. Provision for income taxes was $150 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 resulting in an effective tax rate of 19%. This compared to $397 million or 41% for the year ended December 31, 2020. In 2021, the Company recognized a $55 million tax benefit related to a reduction in certain unrecognized tax benefits and accrued interest for a matter in which the statute of limitations had lapsed. The Company also recognized a discrete tax benefit of $20 million related to an increase in its deferred tax assets as a result of an increase in the United Kingdom (“UK”) statutory tax rate from 19% to 25%. Further, a net discrete tax benefit of $36 million was recognized, primarily related to changes to certain withholding rates applied to unremitted earnings. In 2020, the Company recognized $49 million of income tax expense, which primarily related to final U.S. Department of Treasury regulations issued in the third quarter of 2020, which impacted the net tax on 38 remittance of foreign earnings, and certain tax law changes in India effective in the first quarter of 2020. In addition, the Company recognized incremental valuation allowances of $53 million in 2020. For further details, see Note 7, “Income Taxes,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Net earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interest, net of tax of $102 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by $35 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was due to the recovery from negative effects of COVID-19 on 2020 production and the addition of noncontrolling interests from acquisitions. 39 Non-comparable items impacting the Company’s earnings per diluted share and net earnings The Company’s earnings per diluted share were $2.24 and $2.34 for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The non-comparable items presented below are calculated after tax using the corresponding effective tax rate discrete to each item and the weighted average number of diluted shares for each of the years then ended. The Company believes the following table is useful in highlighting non-comparable items that impacted its earnings per diluted share: _____________________ Results by Reporting Segment The Company’s business is comprised of four reporting segments:  Air Management, e-Propulsion & Drivetrain, Fuel Injection and Aftermarket. Segment Adjusted EBIT is the measure of segment income or loss used by the Company. Segment Adjusted EBIT is comprised of earnings before interest, income taxes and noncontrolling interest (“EBIT”) adjusted for restructuring, merger, acquisition and divestiture expense, impairment charges, affiliates’ earnings and other items not reflective of ongoing operating income or loss. The Company believes 40 Segment Adjusted EBIT is most reflective of the operational profitability or loss of its reporting segments. Segment Adjusted EBIT excludes certain corporate costs, which primarily represent headquarters’ expenses not directly attributable to the individual segments. Corporate expenses not allocated to Segment Adjusted EBIT were $302 million and $192 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in corporate expenses in 2021 related to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies in 2020 and reinstated costs related to specific cost reduction actions taken in response to COVID-19 during 2020. The following table presents net sales and Segment Adjusted EBIT for the Company’s reporting segments: The Air Management segment’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $1,620 million, or 29%, and Segment Adjusted EBIT increased $308 million, or 40%, from the year ended December 31, 2020. The net impact of acquisitions, related to Delphi Technologies and AKASOL, increased Air Management revenues by $880 million in 2021. Stronger foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, and Korean Won, increased net sales by approximately $154 million from the year ended December 31, 2020. The net increase excluding these items was primarily due to increased demand for the Company’s products. In addition, net sales were favorably impacted by the recovery of global markets from the negative effects of COVID-19 on 2020 production. However, this recovery was largely offset by supply constraints related to certain components, particularly semiconductor chips, that negatively impacted global automotive production in 2021. Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 14.7% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 13.4% in the year ended December 31, 2020. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin increase was primarily due to the impact of higher sales and savings arising from the Company’s restructuring initiatives, partially offset by higher commodity costs in 2021. The e-Propulsion & Drivetrain segment’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $1,389 million, or 35%, and Segment Adjusted EBIT increased $127 million, or 35%, from the year ended December 31, 2020. The Delphi Technologies acquisition increased e-Propulsion & Drivetrain revenues by $779 million in 2021. Stronger foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro, Chinese Renminbi, and Korean Won, increased net sales by approximately $126 million from the year ended December 31, 2020. The net increase excluding these items was primarily due to increased demand for the Company’s products. In addition, net sales were favorably impacted by the recovery of global markets from the negative effects of COVID-19 on 2020 production. However, this recovery was largely offset by supply constraints related to certain components, particularly semiconductor chips, that negatively impacted global automotive production in 2021. Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 9.0% in the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 as the impact of higher sales was offset by higher commodity costs and increased net R&D investments. The Fuel Injection segment’s net sales and Segment Adjusted EBIT for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $1,826 million and $170 million, respectively. For the three months ended December 31, 2020, net sales and Segment Adjusted EBIT were $479 million and $39 million, respectively. This was a new reporting segment following the acquisition of Delphi Technologies on October 1, 2020. Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 9.3% in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 8.1% in the three 41 months ended December 31, 2020. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin increase was primarily due to cost improvement measures and higher engineering cost recoveries in 2021. The Aftermarket segment’s net sales and Segment Adjusted EBIT for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $853 million and $107 million, respectively. For the three months ended December 31, 2020, net sales and Segment Adjusted EBIT were $194 million and $22 million, respectively. This was a new reporting segment following the acquisition of Delphi Technologies on October 1, 2020. Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 12.5% in the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 11.3% in the three months ended December 31, 2020. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin increase was primarily related to increased pricing in 2021. Outlook The Company expects global industry production to increase year over year in 2022, as supply of certain components, particularly semiconductor chips, is expected to improve modestly during the year. The Company also expects net new business-related sales growth, due to increased penetration of BorgWarner products around the world, to drive sales increase in excess of the growth in industry production outlook. As a result, the Company expects increased revenue in 2022, excluding the impact of foreign currencies. The Company expects its results to be impacted by a planned increase in Research & Development (“R&D”) expenditures during 2022. This planned R&D increase is to support growth in the Company’s electric vehicle-related products and is primarily related to supporting the launch of recently awarded programs. The Company also expects higher commodity cost, particularly related to steel and petroleum-based resin products, and other supplier cost increases to negatively impact its results of operations. These items are expected to be partially mitigated by cost reductions due to the Company’s restructuring activities and synergies related to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies. The Company maintains a positive long-term outlook for its global business and is committed to new product development and strategic investments to enhance its product leadership strategy. There are several trends that are driving the Company’s long-term growth that management expects to continue, including adoption of product offerings for electrified vehicles and increasingly stringent global emissions standards that support demand for the Company’s products driving vehicle efficiency. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company maintains various liquidity sources including cash and cash equivalents and the unused portion of its multi-currency revolving credit agreement. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had liquidity of $3,841 million, comprised of cash and cash equivalent balances of $1,841 million and an undrawn revolving credit facility of $2,000 million. The Company was in full compliance with its covenants under the revolving credit facility and had full access to its undrawn revolving credit facility.  Debt maturities through the end of 2022 total $66 million. Given the Company’s strong liquidity position, management believes that it will have sufficient liquidity and will maintain compliance with all covenants through at least the next 12 months. As of December 31, 2021, cash balances of $1,361 million were held by the Company’s subsidiaries outside of the United States. Cash and cash equivalents held by these subsidiaries is used to fund foreign operational activities and future investments, including acquisitions. The majority of cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States is available for repatriation. The Company uses its U.S. liquidity primarily for various corporate purposes, including but not limited to debt service, share repurchases, dividend distributions, acquisitions and other corporate expenses. The Company has a $2.0 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility, which includes a feature that allows the facility to be increased by $1.0 billion with bank group approval. This facility matures in March 2025. The credit facility agreement contains customary events of default and one key financial covenant, 42 which is a debt-to-EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization) ratio. The Company was in compliance with the financial covenant at December 31, 2021. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under this facility. The Company’s commercial paper program allows the Company to issue $2.0 billion of short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes under the limits of its multi-currency revolving credit facility. Under this program, the Company may issue notes from time to time and use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under this program as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. The total current combined borrowing capacity under the multi-currency revolving credit facility and commercial paper program cannot exceed $2.0 billion. In addition to the credit facility, the Company’s universal shelf registration provides the ability to issue various debt and equity instruments subject to market conditions. On February 12, 2021, April 28, 2021, July 28, 2021 and November 9, 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.17 per share of common stock. These dividends were paid on March 16, 2021, June 15, 2021, September 15, 2021 and December 15, 2021, respectively. During 2020, due to the business disruptions from COVID-19 and uncertainties surrounding the Delphi Technologies acquisition, Standard & Poor’s downgraded the Company's rating from BBB+ with a stable outlook to BBB with a negative outlook. Additionally, Moody's and Fitch adjusted their outlooks from stable to negative but maintained the Company’s credit ratings at Baa1 and BBB+, respectively. In April 2021, Moody’s reaffirmed the Company’s Baa1 credit rating and adjusted its outlook from negative to stable. In May 2021, Fitch Ratings reaffirmed the Company’s BBB+ rating and adjusted its outlook from negative to stable. In December 2021, Standard & Poor’s reaffirmed the Company’s rating of BBB with a negative outlook. None of the Company’s debt agreements require accelerated repayment in the event of a downgrade in credit ratings. 43 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,306 million and $1,184 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to higher net earnings adjusted for non-cash charges, partially offset by higher working capital, due to higher inventory levels and lower accounts payable as the current volatile market environment led to unanticipated reductions in customer production. During 2020, there were lower net investments in working capital (excluding working capital acquired in the Delphi Technologies acquisition), partially offset by incremental retirement benefit plan contributions made in December 2020 to the Delphi Technologies Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom, which is discussed further below. 44 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1,395 million and $866 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in cash used during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to cash outflows related to the 2021 acquisition of AKASOL. In addition, in 2021, capital expenditures, including tooling outlays, were higher primarily due to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies. As a percentage of sales, capital expenditures were 4.5% and 4.3% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $286 million and $437 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily related to the Company’s repayment of its €500 million 1.800% senior notes due November 2022, partially offset by no share repurchases 2021. Additionally, net cash provided by financing activities for 2021 included the Company’s public offering and issuance of €1.0 billion in 1.000% senior notes due May 2031, a $51 million increase in dividends paid to BorgWarner and noncontrolling stockholders, as compared to 2020, and $33 million paid to acquire additional shares in AKASOL. 45 Contractual Obligations The Company’s significant cash requirements for contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021, primarily consist of the principal and interest payments on its notes payable and long-term debt, non-cancelable lease obligations and capital spending obligations. The principal amount of notes payable and long-term debt was $4,277 million as of December 31, 2021. The projected interest payments on that debt were $1,042 million as of December 31, 2021. Refer to Note 14, “Notes Payable and Debt,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. As of December 31, 2021, non-cancelable lease obligations were $227 million.  Refer to Note 22, “Leases and Commitments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. Capital spending obligations were $142 million as of December 31, 2021. Management believes that the combination of cash from operations, cash balances, available credit facilities, and the universal shelf registration capacity will be sufficient to satisfy the Company’s cash needs for its current level of operations and its planned operations for the foreseeable future. Management will continue to balance the Company’s needs for organic growth, inorganic growth, debt reduction, cash conservation and return of cash to shareholders. Pension and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits The Company’s policy is to fund its defined benefit pension plans in accordance with applicable government regulations and to make additional contributions when appropriate. At December 31, 2021, all legal funding requirements had been met. The Company contributed $24 million, $174 million and $26 million to its defined benefit pension plans in the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. On October 1, 2020, as a result of the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, the Company assumed all of the retirement-related liabilities of Delphi Technologies, the most significant of which was the Delphi Technologies Pension Scheme (the “Scheme”) in the United Kingdom. On December 12, 2020, the Company entered into a Heads of Terms Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the Trustees of the Scheme related to the future funding of the Scheme. Under the Agreement, the Company eliminated the prior schedule of contributions between Delphi Technologies and the Scheme in exchange for a $137 million (£100 million) one-time contribution into the Scheme Plan by December 31, 2020, which was paid on December 15, 2020. The Agreement also contained other provisions regarding the implementation of a revised asset investment strategy as well as a funding progress test that will be performed every three years to determine if additional contributions need to be made into the Scheme by the Company. At this time, the Company anticipates that no additional contributions will need to be made into the Scheme until 2026 at the earliest. The Company expects to contribute a total of $20 million to $30 million into its defined benefit pension plans during 2022. Of the $20 million to $30 million in projected 2022 contributions, $7 million are contractually obligated, while any remaining payments would be discretionary. The funded status of all pension plans was a net unfunded position of $184 million and $501 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The decrease in the net unfunded position was a result of a lower projected benefit obligation which is primarily due to actuarial gains during the period. The main driver of these gains was the increase of 0.53% in the weighted average discount rate for Non-U.S. plans. Of the total net unfunded amounts, $89 million and $139 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, were related to plans in Germany, where there is no tax deduction allowed under the applicable regulations to fund the plans; hence, the common practice is to make contributions as benefit payments become due. Additionally, $186 million of the net unfunded position at December 31, 2020 related to the acquired Delphi Technologies Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom, which reflects the impact of the $137 million contribution discussed above. 46 Other postretirement employee benefits primarily consist of postretirement health care benefits for certain employees and retirees of the Company’s U.S. operations. The Company funds these benefits as retiree claims are incurred. Other postretirement employee benefits had an unfunded status of $54 million and $65 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company believes it will be able to fund the requirements of these plans through cash generated from operations or other available sources of financing for the foreseeable future. Refer to Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. OTHER MATTERS Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is party to various commercial and legal claims, actions and complaints, including matters involving warranty claims, intellectual property claims, general liability and other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company will ultimately be successful in any of these commercial and legal matters or, if not, what the impact might be. The Company’s management does not expect that an adverse outcome in any of these commercial and legal claims, actions and complaints that are currently pending will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or cash flows. An adverse outcome could, nonetheless, be material to the results of operations or cash flows. The Company previously disclosed a warranty claim that an OEM customer asserted. The claim was related to certain combustion-related products, and the Company and the customer continued to work through the warranty process in the fourth quarter of 2021. In December 2021, as a result of discussions that occurred in the fourth quarter, the Company (without any admission of liability) and the customer reached an agreement to fully resolve the claim for $130 million, which the Company paid in 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded cumulative charges of $124 million in connection with the warranty claim. The Company is pursuing a partial recovery of this claim through its insurance coverage. However, there is no assurance that there will be any recovery. Environmental The Company and certain of its current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund”) and equivalent state laws and, as such, may presently be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial activities at 26 such sites. Responsibility for clean-up and other remedial activities at a Superfund site is typically shared among PRPs based on an allocation formula. The Company believes that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Generally, this is because either the estimates of the maximum potential liability at a site are not material or the liability will be shared with other PRPs, although no assurance can be given with respect to the ultimate outcome of any such matter. Refer to Note 21, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further details and information respecting the Company’s environmental liability. 47 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). In preparing these financial statements, management has made its best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality. Critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the portrayal of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments in the preparation of the financial statements and accompanying notes. Management makes estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain, relating to the reporting of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company’s most critical accounting policies are discussed below. Business combinations The Company allocates the cost of an acquired business to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess value of the cost of an acquired business over the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. The valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities will impact the determination of future operating results. The Company uses a variety of information sources to determine the value of acquired assets and liabilities, including third-party appraisers for the values and lives of property, identifiable intangibles and inventories, and actuaries for defined benefit retirement plans. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units as of the date of the related acquisition. If goodwill is assigned to more than one reporting unit, the Company utilizes a method that is consistent with the manner in which the amount of goodwill in a business combination is determined. Costs related to the acquisition of a business are expensed as incurred. Acquired intangible assets include customer relationships, developed technology and trade names. The Company estimates the fair value of acquired intangible assets using various valuation techniques. The primary valuation techniques used include forms of the income approach, specifically the relief-from-royalty and multi-period excess earnings valuation methods. Under these valuation approaches, the Company is required to make estimates and assumptions from a market participant perspective which may include revenue growth rates, estimated earnings, royalty rates, obsolescence factors, contributory asset charges, customer attrition and discount rates. Under the multi-period excess earnings method, value is estimated as the present value of the benefits anticipated from ownership of the asset, in excess of the returns required on the investment in contributory assets that are necessary to realize those benefits. The intangible asset’s estimated earnings are determined as the residual earnings after quantifying estimated earnings from contributory assets. The Company estimates the fair value of trade names and developed technology using the relief from royalty method, which calculates the cost savings associated with owning rather than licensing the assets. Assumed royalty rates are applied to projected revenue for the remaining useful lives of the assets to estimate the royalty savings. While the Company uses its best estimates and assumptions, fair value estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, the Company may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Any adjustments required after the measurement period are recorded in the consolidated statement of earnings. Future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that are used in acquisition valuations and intangible asset and goodwill impairment testing, including discount rates or future operating results and related cash flow projections, could result in significantly different estimates of the fair values in the future. An increase in discount rates, a reduction in projected cash flows or a combination of the two could lead 48 to a reduction in the estimated fair values, which may result in impairment charges that could materially affect the Company’s financial statements in any given year. Impairment of long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets The Company reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets, whether held for use or disposal, including other amortizing intangible assets, when events and circumstances warrant such a review under ASC Topic 360. In assessing long-lived assets for an impairment loss, assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. In assessing long-lived assets for impairment, management generally considers individual facilities to be the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent. A recoverability review is performed using the undiscounted cash flows if there is a triggering event. If the undiscounted cash flow test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, management will perform a fair value analysis. Management determines fair value under ASC Topic 820 using the appropriate valuation technique of market, income or cost approach. If the carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Management believes that the estimates of future cash flows and fair value assumptions are reasonable; however, changes in assumptions underlying these estimates could affect the valuations. Significant judgments and estimates used by management when evaluating long-lived assets for impairment include (i) an assessment as to whether an adverse event or circumstance has triggered the need for an impairment review; (ii) undiscounted future cash flows generated by the asset; and (iii) fair valuation of the asset. Events and conditions that could result in impairment in the value of long-lived assets include changes in the industries in which the Company operates, particularly the impact of a downturn in the global economy, as well as competition and advances in technology, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets During the fourth quarter of each year, the Company qualitatively assesses its goodwill assigned to each of its reporting units. This qualitative assessment evaluates various events and circumstances, such as macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, relevant events and financial trends, that may impact a reporting unit's fair value. Using this qualitative assessment, the Company determines whether it is more-likely-than-not the reporting unit's fair value exceeds its carrying value. If it is determined that it is not more-likely-than-not the reporting unit's fair value exceeds the carrying value, or upon consideration of other factors, including recent acquisition, restructuring or disposal activity or to refresh the fair values, the Company performs a quantitative goodwill impairment analysis. In addition, the Company may test goodwill in between annual test dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that could more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Similar to goodwill, the Company can elect to perform the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily trade names) using a qualitative analysis, considering similar factors as outlined in the goodwill discussion in order to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the trade names is less than the respective carrying values. If the Company elects to perform or is required to perform a quantitative analysis, the test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment testing date. The Company estimates the fair value of indefinite-lived intangibles using the relief-from-royalty method, which it believes is an appropriate and widely used valuation technique for such assets. The fair value derived from the relief-from-royalty method is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such trade names and not being required to pay a royalty for their use. During the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company performed an analysis on each reporting unit. Given the macroeconomic environment, the Company performed quantitative goodwill impairment analyses for the majority of reporting units to refresh their respective fair values. This requires the Company to make 49 significant assumptions and estimates about the extent and timing of future cash flows, discount rates and growth rates. The basis of this goodwill impairment analysis is the Company’s annual budget and long-range plan (“LRP”). The annual budget and LRP includes a five-year projection of future cash flows based on actual new products and customer commitments. Because the projections are estimated over a significant future period of time, those estimates and assumptions are subject to uncertainty. Further, the market valuation models and other financial ratios used by the Company require certain assumptions and estimates regarding the applicability of those models to the Company’s facts and circumstances. The Company believes the assumptions and estimates used to determine the estimated fair value are reasonable. Different assumptions could materially affect the estimated fair value. The primary assumptions affecting the Company’s 2021 goodwill quantitative impairment review are as follows: • Discount rates: the Company used a range of 12.4% to 13.6% weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) as the discount rates for future cash flows. The WACC is intended to represent a rate of return that would be expected by a market participant. • Operating income margin: the Company used historical and expected operating income margins, which may vary based on the projections of the reporting unit being evaluated. • Revenue growth rate: the Company used a global automotive market industry growth rate forecast adjusted to estimate its own market participation for product lines. In addition to the above primary assumptions, the Company notes the following risks to volume and operating income assumptions that could have an impact on the discounted cash flow models: • The automotive industry is cyclical, and the Company’s results of operations would be adversely affected by industry downturns. • The automotive industry is evolving, and if the Company does not respond appropriately, its results of operations would be adversely affected. • The Company is dependent on market segments that use its key products and would be affected by decreasing demand in those segments. • The Company is subject to risks related to international operations. Based on the assumptions outlined above, the impairment testing conducted in the fourth quarter of 2021 indicated the Company’s goodwill assigned to the respective reporting units was not impaired. Future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates from those used in acquisition-related valuations and goodwill impairment testing, including discount rates or future operating results and related cash flow projections, could result in significantly different estimates of the fair values in the future. Due to the Company’s recent acquisitions, there is less headroom (the difference between the carrying value and the fair value) associated with several of the Company’s reporting units. An increase in discount rates, a reduction in projected cash flows or a combination of the two could lead to a reduction in the estimated fair values, which may result in impairment charges that could materially affect the Company’s financial statements in any given year. Refer to Note 12, “Goodwill and Other Intangibles,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding goodwill. 50 Product warranties The Company provides warranties on some, but not all, of its products. The warranty terms are typically from one to three years. Provisions for estimated expenses related to product warranty are made at the time products are sold. These estimates are established using historical information about the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claim settlements as well as product manufacturing and industry developments and recoveries from third parties. Management actively studies trends of warranty claims and takes action to improve product quality and minimize warranty claims. Costs of product recalls, which may include the cost of the product being replaced as well as the customer’s cost of the recall, including labor to remove and replace the recalled part, are accrued as part of the Company’s warranty accrual at the time an obligation becomes probable and can be reasonably estimated. Management believes that the warranty accrual is appropriate; however, actual claims incurred could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to the accrual: The following table illustrates the sensitivity of a 25 basis-point change (as a percentage of net sales) in the assumed warranty trend on the Company’s accrued warranty liability: At December 31, 2021, the total accrued warranty liability was $236 million. The accrual is represented as $128 million in current liabilities and $108 million in non-current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer to Note 13, “Product Warranty,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding product warranties. Pension and other postretirement defined benefits The Company provides postretirement defined benefits to a number of its current and former employees. Costs associated with postretirement defined benefits include pension and postretirement health care expenses for employees, retirees and surviving spouses and dependents. The Company’s defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans are accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 715. The determination of the Company’s obligation and expense for its pension and other postretirement employee benefits, such as retiree health care, is dependent on certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Certain assumptions, including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rate, rates of increase in compensation and health care costs trends are described in Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The effects of any modification to those assumptions, or actual results that differ from assumptions used, are either recognized immediately or amortized over future periods in accordance with GAAP. 51 The primary assumptions affecting the Company’s accounting for employee benefits under ASC Topics 712 and 715 as of December 31, 2021 are as follows: • Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets : The expected long-term rate of return is used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost. The required use of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate actual earned long-term returns. The expected long-term rate of return for pension assets has been determined based on various inputs, including historical returns for the different asset classes held by the Company’s trusts and its asset allocation, as well as inputs from internal and external sources regarding expected capital market return, inflation and other variables. The Company also considers the impact of active management of the plans’ invested assets. In determining its pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company used long-term rates of return on plan assets ranging from 1.5% to 7.7% outside of the U.S. and 5.8% in the U.S. Actual returns on U.S. pension assets were 3.1% and 9.3% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumptions of 5.8% and 6.0%, respectively, for the same years ended. Actual returns on U.K. pension assets were 5.4% and 4.0% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumption of 4.0% for the same years ended. Actual returns on German pension assets were 5.4% and 4.3% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumptions of 5.0% and 6.0%, respectively, for the same years ended. • Discount rate : The discount rate is used to calculate pension and other postretirement employee benefit (“OPEB”) obligations. In determining the discount rate, the Company utilizes a full-yield approach in the estimation of service and interest components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. For its significant plans, the Company used discount rates ranging from 0.91% to 3.50% to determine its pension and other benefit obligations as of December 31, 2021, including weighted average discount rates of 2.73% in the U.S., 1.97% outside of the U.S. (including 1.91% in the U.K.) and 2.46% for U.S. other postretirement health care plans. The U.S. and U.K. discount rates reflect the fact that the U.S. and U.K. pension plans have been closed for new participants. • Health care cost trend : For postretirement employee health care plan accounting, the Company reviews external data and Company-specific historical trends for health care cost to determine the health care cost trend rate assumptions. In determining the projected benefit obligation for postretirement employee health care plans as of December 31, 2021, the Company used health care cost trend rates of 6.25%, declining to an ultimate trend rate of 4.75% by the year 2026. While the Company believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect the Company's pension and OPEB and its future expense. The sensitivity to a 25 basis-point change in the assumptions for discount rate and expected return on assets related to 2022 pre-tax pension expense for Company sponsored U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans is expected to be negligible. 52 The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in discount rate for Company sponsored U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans on its pension obligations: The sensitivity to a 25 basis-point change in the discount rate assumption and to the assumed health care cost trend related to the Company’s OPEB obligation and service and interest cost is expected to be negligible. Refer to Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding the Company’s retirement benefit plans. Restructuring Restructuring costs may occur when the Company takes action to exit or significantly curtail a part of its operations or implements a reorganization that affects the nature and focus of operations.  A restructuring charge can consist of severance costs associated with reductions to the workforce, costs to terminate an operating lease or contract, professional fees and other costs incurred related to the implementation of restructuring activities. The Company generally records costs associated with voluntary separations at the time of employee acceptance. Costs for involuntary separation programs are recorded when management has approved the plan for separation, the employees are identified and aware of the benefits they are entitled to and it is unlikely that the plan will change significantly. When a plan of separation requires approval by or consultation with the relevant labor organization or government, the costs are recorded upon agreement. Costs associated with benefits that are contingent on the employee continuing to provide service are accrued over the required service period. Income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Accounting for income taxes is complex, in part because the Company conducts business globally and, therefore, files income tax returns in numerous tax jurisdictions. Management judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities, including accruals for unrecognized tax benefits and assessing the need for valuation allowances. In calculating the provision for income taxes on an interim basis, the Company uses an estimate of the annual effective tax rate based upon the facts and circumstances known at each interim period. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, the historical and projected financial performance of the operation recording the net deferred tax asset is considered along with any other pertinent information. Since future financial results may differ from previous estimates, periodic adjustments to the Company’s valuation allowance may be necessary. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. at the federal and state level and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. The determination of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits includes the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions across the Company's global operations. Management judgment is required in determining the accruals for unrecognized tax benefits. In the ordinary course of the Company’s business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax 53 determination is less than certain. Accruals for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite the belief that tax positions are supportable, there remain certain positions that do not meet the minimum probability threshold, which is a tax position that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority. The Company has certain U.S. state income tax returns and certain non-U.S. income tax returns that are currently under various stages of audit by applicable tax authorities. At December 31, 2021, the Company had a liability for tax positions the Company estimates are not more-likely-than-not to be sustained based on the technical merits, which is included in Other non-current liabilities. Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. The Company records valuation allowances to reduce the carrying value of certain deferred tax assets to amounts that it expects are more likely than not to be realized. Existing deferred tax assets, net operating losses, and tax credits by jurisdiction and expectations of the ability to utilize these tax attributes are assessed through a review of past, current and estimated future taxable income and tax planning strategies. Estimates of future taxable income, including income generated from prudent and feasible tax planning strategies resulting from actual or planned business and operational developments, could change in the near term, perhaps materially, which may require the Company to consider any potential impact to the assessment of the recoverability of the related deferred tax asset. Such potential impact could be material to the Company’s consolidated financial condition or results of operations for an individual reporting period. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “Tax Act”) that was signed into law in December 2017 constituted a major change to the U.S. tax system. The impact of the Tax Act on the Company is based on management’s current interpretations of the Tax Act, recently issued regulations and related analysis. The Company’s tax liability may be materially different based on regulatory developments or enacted changes to the U.S. tax law. In future periods, its effective tax rate could be subject to additional uncertainty as a result of regulatory or legislative developments related to U.S. tax law. Refer to Note 7, “Income Taxes,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding income taxes. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding new applicable accounting pronouncements. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company’s primary market risks include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company is also affected by changes in the prices of commodities used or consumed in its manufacturing operations. Some of its commodity purchase price risk is covered by supply agreements with customers and suppliers. Other commodity purchase price risk is occasionally addressed by hedging strategies, which include forward contracts. The Company enters into derivative instruments only with high credit quality counterparties and diversifies its positions across such counterparties in order to reduce its exposure to credit losses. The Company does not engage in any derivative instruments for purposes other than hedging specific operating risks. The Company has established policies and procedures to manage sensitivity to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity purchase price risk, which include monitoring the level of exposure to each market risk.  For quantitative disclosures about market risk, refer to Note 17, “Financial 54 Instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for information with respect to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk and commodity purchase price risk. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the Company will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. The Company manages its interest rate risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable rates while attempting to optimize its interest costs. The Company selectively uses interest rate swaps to reduce market value risk associated with changes in interest rates (fair value hedges). At December 31, 2021, all of the Company’s long-term debt had fixed interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Foreign currency exchange rate risk is the risk that the Company will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Currently, the Company’s most significant currency exposures relate to the Brazilian Real, British Pound, Chinese Renminbi, Euro, Polish Zloty, Singapore Dollar, Korean Won, Mexican Peso, Thailand Baht and Turkish Lira. The Company mitigates its foreign currency exchange rate risk by establishing local production facilities and related supply chain participants in the markets it serves, by invoicing customers in the same currency as the source of the products and by funding some of its investments in foreign markets through local currency loans. The Company also monitors its foreign currency exposure in each country and implements strategies to respond to changing economic and political environments. In addition, the Company regularly enters into forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and foreign currency denominated debt designated as net investment hedges to reduce exposure to translation exchange rate risk. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded a deferred gain of $10 million and a deferred loss of $230 million, respectively, both before taxes, for designated net investment hedges within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The significant foreign currency translation adjustments, including the impact of the net investment hedges discussed above, during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, are shown in the following table, which provides the percentage change in U.S. Dollars against the respective currencies and the approximate impacts of these changes recorded within other comprehensive income (loss) for the respective periods. 55 Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is the possibility that the Company will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in the cost of raw materials used in the production of its products. Commodity forward and option contracts are occasionally executed to offset exposure to potential change in prices mainly for various non-ferrous metals and natural gas consumption used in the manufacturing of vehicle components. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company had no outstanding commodity swap contracts. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The matters discussed in this Item 7 include forward looking statements. See “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.