********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impact our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business including its financial performance, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. Risks related to COVID-19 We face risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic that could adversely affect our business and financial performance. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted, and is likely to continue to disrupt, the global automotive industry and customer sales, production volumes, and purchases of light vehicles by end consumers. In 15 2020, global vehicle production decreased, and some vehicle manufacturers, at times, completely shut down manufacturing operations in some countries and regions, including the United States and Europe. As a result, we have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, delays in the production and distribution of our products and the loss of sales. If the global economic effects caused by COVID-19 continue or increase, overall customer demand may continue to decrease, which could have a further adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Global government directives and initiatives to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, such as the imposition of travel restrictions, closing of borders, stay-at-home directives and closing of entire plants, cities and countries, have materially impacted our operations. Furthermore, COVID-19 has impacted and may further impact the broader economies of affected countries, including negatively impacting economic growth, the proper functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. For example, the continued spread of COVID-19 has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets, which adversely impact access to capital and increase the cost of capital. Due to the uncertainty of its duration and the timing of recovery, we are not able at this time to predict the extent to which COVID-19 may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frames, will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of COVID-19, its severity, the actions to contain COVID-19 or treat its impact, including the availability and efficacy of the vaccines and any related restrictions on travel. Furthermore, the duration, timing and severity of the impact on customer production, including any recession resulting from COVID-19, are uncertain and cannot be predicted. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption as a result of COVID-19 would have a further material negative impact on our business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition, though the full extent and duration are uncertain. Risks related to our acquisition of Delphi Technologies The failure to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition of Delphi Technologies and other risks associated with the acquisition could adversely affect our business. The success of our acquisition of Delphi Technologies will depend in part on our ability to realize the expected benefits from combining the businesses of the Company and Delphi Technologies. To realize these anticipated benefits, both companies must be successfully combined, which is subject to our ability to consolidate operations, corporate cultures and systems and our ability to eliminate redundancies and costs. If we are unsuccessful in combining our two companies, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Further, there is potential for unknown or inestimable liabilities relating to the acquired Delphi Technologies’ businesses. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process that will require significant management attention and resources. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our operations, the inability to maintain or increase our competitive presence, inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the acquisition, the diversion of management’s attention to integration matters and/or difficulties in the assimilation of employees and corporate cultures. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition and could have an adverse effect on the combined company. In addition, many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of these factors could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and additional diversion of 16 management’s time and energy, which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. There could be significant liability if the previous Delphi Technologies separation from its former parent fails to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On December 4, 2017, Delphi Technologies became an independent publicly-traded company, following its separation from Aptiv PLC, formerly known as Delphi Automotive PLC. The separation was completed in the form of a pro-rata distribution of 100% of Delphi Technologies ordinary shares to Aptiv’s shareholders. Aptiv received an opinion from its tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution qualified as a distribution under Section 355(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, subject to certain qualifications and limitations. Based on this tax treatment, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, except with respect to cash received in lieu of a fractional Delphi Technologies ordinary share, Aptiv shareholders did not recognize a gain or loss or include any amount in their income upon the receipt of Delphi Technologies ordinary shares in the distribution. The opinion was based on and relied on, among other things, certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Aptiv and Delphi Technologies, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, Aptiv may not be able to rely on the opinion, and Aptiv’s shareholders could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable to Aptiv’s shareholders if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. In addition, Aptiv expects that restructuring transactions that it undertook in connection with the distribution will be taxed in a certain manner. If, contrary to Aptiv’s expectations, such transactions are taxed in a different manner, Aptiv and/or Delphi Technologies may incur additional tax liabilities that may be substantial. If the Company is required to pay any such liabilities, the payments could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial position. Under the tax matters agreement between Aptiv and Delphi Technologies, we are required to indemnify Aptiv against taxes that Aptiv incurs that arise as a result of our taking or failing to take, as the case may be, certain actions that result in the distribution failing to meet the requirements of a distribution under Section 355(a) of the Code or that result in certain restructuring transactions in connection with the distribution failing to meet the requirements for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Risks related to our industry Conditions in the automotive industry may adversely affect our business. Our financial performance depends on conditions in the global automotive industry. Automotive and truck production and sales are cyclical and sensitive to general economic conditions and other factors including interest rates, consumer credit, and consumer spending and preferences. Economic declines that result in significant reduction in automotive or truck production would have an adverse effect on our sales to OEMs. We face strong competition. We compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell products similar to ours. Price, quality, delivery, technological innovation, engineering development and program launch support are the primary elements of competition. Our competitors include vertically integrated units of our major OEM customers, as well as a large number of independent domestic and international suppliers. Additionally, our competitors include start-ups that may be well funded, with the 17 result that they could have more operational and financial flexibility than we have. A number of our competitors are larger than we are, and some competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do. Although OEMs have indicated that they will continue to rely on outside suppliers, a number of our major OEM customers manufacture products for their own uses that directly compete with our products. These OEMs could elect to manufacture such products for their own uses in place of the products we currently supply. Our traditional OEM customers, faced with intense international competition, have continued to expand their worldwide sourcing of components. As a result, we have experienced competition from suppliers in other parts of the world that enjoy economic advantages, such as lower labor costs, lower health care costs, lower tax rates and, in some cases, export or raw materials subsidies. Increased competition could adversely affect our business. In addition, any of our competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than we do, develop products that are superior to our products, produce similar products at a cost that is lower than our cost, or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' products, and we may not be able to meet the growing demands of customers. These trends may adversely affect our sales as well as the profit margins on our products. If we do not respond appropriately, the evolution of the automotive industry could adversely affect our business. The automotive industry is increasingly focused on the development of hybrid and electric vehicles and of advanced driver assistance technologies, with the goal of developing and introducing a commercially-viable, fully-automated driving experience. There has also been an increase in consumer preferences for mobility on demand services, such as car and ride sharing, as opposed to automobile ownership, which may result in a long-term reduction in the number of vehicles per capita. In addition, some industry participants are exploring transportation through alternatives to automobiles. These evolving areas have also attracted increased competition from entrants outside the traditional automotive industry. If we do not continue to innovate and develop, or acquire, new and compelling products that capitalize upon new technologies in response to OEM and consumer preferences, this could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The increased adoption of gasoline and hybrid propulsion systems in Western Europe may materially reduce the demand for our current products. The industry mix shift away from diesel propulsion systems in Western Europe has resulted and is expected to result in lower demand for current diesel components.  This shift is expected to drive further increased demand for gasoline and hybrid propulsion systems. Although we have developed and are currently in production with products for gasoline and hybrid propulsion systems and industry penetration rates for these products are expected to increase over the next several years, due to the high current penetration rates of our key technologies on diesel propulsion systems, this industry mix shift could adversely impact our near-term results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 18 Risks related to our business We are under substantial pressure from OEMs to reduce the prices of our products. There is substantial and continuing pressure on OEMs to reduce costs, including costs of products we supply. OEM customers expect annual price reductions in our business. To maintain our profit margins, we seek price reductions from our suppliers, improved production processes to increase manufacturing efficiency, and streamlined product designs to reduce costs, and we attempt to develop new products, the benefits of which support stable or increased prices. Our ability to pass through increased raw material costs to our OEM customers is limited, with cost recovery often less than 100% and often on a delayed basis. Inability to reduce costs in an amount equal to annual price reductions, increases in raw material costs, and increases in employee wages and benefits could have an adverse effect on our business. We continue to face volatile costs of commodities used in the production of our products. The Company uses a variety of commodities (including aluminum, copper, nickel, plastic resins, steel, other raw materials and energy) and materials purchased in various forms such as castings, powder metal, forgings, stampings and bar stock. Increasing commodity costs will have an impact on our results. We have sought to alleviate the impact of increasing costs by including a material pass-through provision in our customer contracts wherever possible and by selectively hedging certain commodity exposures. Customers frequently challenge these contractual provisions and rarely pay the full cost of any increases in the cost of materials. The discontinuation or lessening of our ability to pass through or hedge increasing commodity costs could adversely affect our business. From time to time, commodity prices may also fall rapidly. If this happens, suppliers may withdraw capacity from the market until prices improve which may cause periodic supply interruptions. The same may be true of our transportation carriers and energy providers.  If these supply interruptions occur, it could adversely affect our business. Changes in U.S. administrative policy, including changes to existing trade agreements and any resulting changes in international trade relations, may have an adverse effect on us. The United States has maintained tariffs on certain imported steel, aluminum and items originating from China. These tariffs have increased the cost of raw materials and components we purchase. The imposition of tariffs by the United States has resulted in retaliatory tariffs from a number of countries, including China, which increase the cost of products we sell. If the U.S. or other countries impose additional tariffs, that will have a further adverse impact on our business. We use important intellectual property in our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property or if a third party makes assertions against us or our customers relating to intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely affected. We own important intellectual property, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secrets, and are involved in numerous licensing arrangements. Our intellectual property plays an important role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve. Our competitors may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technologies or design around the patents we own or license. Further, as we expand our operations in jurisdictions where the enforcement of intellectual property rights is less robust, the risk of others duplicating our proprietary technologies increases, despite efforts we undertake to protect them. Our inability to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or claims that we are infringing intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect our business and our competitive position. 19 We are subject to business continuity risks associated with increasing centralization of our information technology (IT) systems. To improve efficiency and reduce costs, we have regionally centralized the information systems that support our business processes such as invoicing, payroll, and general management operations.  If the centralized systems are disrupted or disabled, key business processes could be interrupted, which could adversely affect our business. A failure of or disruption in our information technology infrastructure, including a disruption related to cybersecurity, could adversely impact our business and operations. We rely on the capacity, reliability and security of our IT systems and infrastructure. IT systems are vulnerable to disruptions, including those resulting from natural disasters, cyber attacks or failures in third-party-provided services. Disruptions and attacks on our IT systems pose a risk to the security of our systems and our ability to protect our networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of information and data and that of third parties, including our employees. Some cyber attacks depend on human error or manipulation, including phishing attacks or schemes that use social engineering to gain access to systems or carry out disbursement of funds or other frauds, which raise the risks from such events and the costs associated with protecting against such attacks.  Although we have implemented security policies, processes, and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information, and disruptions of our operations, we have been, and likely will continue to be, subjected to such attacks or disruptions. Future attacks or disruptions could potentially lead to the inappropriate disclosure of confidential information, including our intellectual property, improper use of our systems and networks, access to and manipulation and destruction of Company or third party data, production downtimes, lost revenues, inappropriate disbursement of funds and both internal and external supply shortages. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by such attacks or disruptions in the future. These consequences could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers and suppliers, lead to claims against the Company and ultimately adversely affect our business. Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce worldwide.  In particular, any unplanned turnover or inability to attract and retain key employees and employees with technical and software capabilities in numbers sufficient for our needs could adversely affect our business. Our profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected by program launch difficulties. The launch of new business is a complex process, the success of which depends on a wide range of factors, including the production readiness of our manufacturing facilities and manufacturing processes and those of our suppliers, as well as factors related to tooling, equipment, employees, initial product quality and other factors. Our failure to successfully launch new business, or our inability to accurately estimate the cost to design, develop and launch new business, could have an adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. To the extent we are not able to successfully launch new business, vehicle production at our customers could be significantly delayed or shut down. Such situations could result in significant financial penalties to us or a diversion of personnel and financial resources to improving launches rather than investment in continuous process improvement or other growth initiatives, and could result in our 20 customers shifting work away from us to a competitor, all of which could result in loss of revenue, or loss of market share and could have an adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows. Part of our workforce is unionized which could subject us to work stoppages. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 12% of our U.S. workforce was unionized. We have a domestic collective bargaining agreement for one facility in New York, which expires in September 2024. The workforce at certain of our international facilities is also unionized. A prolonged dispute with our employees could have an adverse effect on our business. Work stoppages, production shutdowns and similar events could significantly disrupt our business. Because the automotive industry relies heavily on just-in-time delivery of components during the assembly and manufacture of vehicles, a work stoppage or production shutdown at one or more of our manufacturing and assembly facilities could have adverse effects on our business. Similarly, if one or more of our customers were to experience a work stoppage or production shutdown, that customer would likely halt or limit purchases of our products, which could result in the shutdown of the related manufacturing facilities. A significant disruption in the supply of a key component due to a work stoppage or production shutdown at one of our suppliers or any other supplier could have the same consequences and, accordingly, have an adverse effect on our financial results. Changes in interest rates and asset returns could increase our pension funding obligations and reduce our profitability. We have unfunded obligations under certain of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The valuation of our future payment obligations under the plans and the related plan assets is subject to significant adverse changes if the credit and capital markets cause interest rates and projected rates of return to decline. Such declines could also require us to make significant additional contributions to our pension plans in the future. Additionally, a material deterioration in the funded status of the plans could significantly increase our pension expenses and reduce profitability in the future. We also sponsor post-employment medical benefit plans in the U.S. that are unfunded. If medical costs continue to increase or actuarial assumptions are modified, this could have an adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive environmental regulations. Our operations are subject to laws governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to waters, and the generation, management, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials. The operation of automotive parts manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas, and we cannot assure that we will not incur material costs or liabilities as a result. Through various acquisitions over the years, we have acquired a number of manufacturing facilities, and we cannot assure that we will not incur material costs and liabilities relating to activities that predate our ownership. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with evolving interpretations of existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or any new such laws and regulations (including concerns about global climate change and its impact) that may be adopted in the future. Costs associated with failure to comply with such laws and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business. 21 We have liabilities related to environmental, product warranties, litigation and other claims. We and certain of our current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and equivalent state laws, and, as such, may be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial activities at such sites. While responsibility for clean-up and other remedial activities at such sites is typically shared among potentially responsible parties based on an allocation formula, we could have greater liability under applicable statutes. Refer to Note 21, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in item 8 of this report for further discussion. We provide product warranties to our customers for some of our products. Under these product warranties, we may be required to bear costs and expenses for the repair or replacement of these products. As suppliers become more integrally involved in the vehicle design process and assume more of the vehicle assembly functions, auto manufacturers are increasingly looking to their suppliers for contribution when faced with recalls and product warranty claims. A recall claim brought against us, or a product warranty claim brought against us, could adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, a recall claim could require us to review our entire product portfolio to assess whether similar issues are present in other product lines, which could result in significant disruption to our business and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. We cannot assure that costs and expenses associated with these product warranties will not be material or that those costs will not exceed any amounts accrued for such product warranties in our financial statements. We are currently, and may in the future become, subject to legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes. These claims typically arise in the normal course of business and may include, but not be limited to, commercial or contractual disputes with our customers and suppliers, intellectual property matters, personal injury, product liability, environmental and employment claims. There is a possibility that such claims may have an adverse impact on our business that is greater than we anticipate. While the Company maintains insurance for certain risks, the amount of insurance may not be adequate to cover all insured claims and liabilities. The incurring of significant liabilities for which there is no, or insufficient, insurance coverage could adversely affect our business. Compliance with and changes in laws could be costly and could affect operating results. We have operations in multiple countries that can be impacted by expected and unexpected changes in the legal and business environments in which we operate. Compliance-related issues in certain countries associated with laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business. We have internal policies and procedures relating to compliance with such laws; however, there is a risk that such policies and procedures will not always protect us from the improper acts of employees, agents, business partners, joint venture partners, or representatives, particularly in the case of recently-acquired operations that may not have significant training in applicable compliance policies and procedures. Violations of these laws, which are complex, may result in criminal penalties, sanctions and/or fines that could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and reputation. Changes that could impact the legal environment include new legislation, new regulations, new policies, investigations and legal proceedings, and new interpretations of existing legal rules and regulations, in particular, changes in import and export control laws or exchange control laws, additional restrictions on doing business in countries subject to sanctions, and changes in laws in countries where we operate or intend to operate. 22 Changes in tax laws or tax rates taken by taxing authorities and tax audits could adversely affect our business. Changes in tax laws or tax rates, the resolution of tax assessments or audits by various tax authorities, and the inability to fully utilize our tax loss carryforwards and tax credits could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may periodically restructure our legal entity organization. If taxing authorities were to disagree with our tax positions in connection with any such restructurings, our effective tax rate could be materially affected. Our tax filings for various periods are subject to audit by the tax authorities in most jurisdictions where we conduct business. We have received tax assessments from various taxing authorities and are currently at varying stages of appeals and/or litigation regarding these matters. These audits may result in assessment of additional taxes that are resolved with the authorities or through the courts. We believe these assessments may occasionally be based on erroneous and even arbitrary interpretations of local tax law. Resolution of any tax matters involves uncertainties, and there are no assurances that the outcomes will be favorable. Our growth strategy may prove unsuccessful. We have a stated goal of increasing sales and operating income at a rate greater than global vehicle production growth, if any, by increasing content per vehicle with innovative new components and through select acquisitions. We may not meet our goal due to many factors, including any of the risks identified in the paragraph that follows, failure to develop new products that our customers will purchase, technology changes that could render our products obsolete, and a reversal of the trend of supplying systems (which allows us to increase content per vehicle) instead of components, among other things. We expect to continue to pursue business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances that leverage our technology capabilities, enhance our customer base, geographic representation, and scale to complement our current businesses, and we regularly evaluate potential growth opportunities, some of which could be material. While we believe that such transactions are an integral part of our long-term strategy, there are risks and uncertainties related to these activities. Assessing a potential growth opportunity involves extensive due diligence. However, the amount of information we can obtain about a potential growth opportunity can be limited, and we can give no assurance that past or future business ventures, acquisitions, and strategic alliances will positively affect our financial performance or will perform as planned. We may not be able to successfully assimilate or integrate companies that we have acquired or acquire in the future, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. The integration of companies that we have acquired or will acquire in the future may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected. Revenues following the acquisition of a company may be lower than expected, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, or suppliers) may be greater than expected, and we may not be able to retain key employees at the acquired company. We may also encounter challenges in achieving appropriate internal control over financial reporting in connection with the integration of an acquired company. If we fail to assimilate or integrate acquired companies successfully, our business, reputation and operating results could be adversely affected. Likewise, our failure to integrate and manage acquired companies or realize certain synergies successfully may lead to future impairment of any associated goodwill and intangible asset balances. Failure to execute our growth strategy could adversely affect our business. 23 We are subject to risks related to our international operations. We have manufacturing and technical facilities in many regions including Europe, Asia, and the Americas. For 2020, approximately 80% of our consolidated net sales were outside the U.S. Consequently, our results could be affected by changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, trade restrictions or prohibitions, import or other charges or taxes, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, limitations on the repatriation of funds, changing economic conditions, unreliable intellectual property protection and legal systems, insufficient infrastructures, social unrest, political instability and disputes, international terrorism and other factors that may be discrete to a particular country or geography. Compliance with multiple and potentially conflicting laws and regulations of various countries is challenging, burdensome and expensive. The financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated to U.S. dollars using the period-end exchange rate for assets and liabilities and an average exchange rate for each period for revenues, expenses and capital expenditures. The local currency is typically the functional currency for the Company's foreign subsidiaries. Significant foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translation of those foreign currencies could adversely affect our business. Additionally, significant changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the Euro, Korean Won and Chinese Renminbi, could cause fluctuations in the reported results of our businesses’ operations that could negatively affect our results of operations. Because we are a U.S. holding company, one significant source of our funds is distributions from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Certain countries in which we operate have adopted or could institute currency exchange controls that limit or prohibit our local subsidiaries' ability to convert local currency into U.S. dollars or to make payments outside the country. This could subject us to the risks of local currency devaluation and business disruption. Our business in China is subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic, political, and market conditions. Maintaining a strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive supply market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the Chinese market evolves, we anticipate that market participants will act aggressively to increase or maintain their market share. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition, our business in China is sensitive to economic, political, social and market conditions that drive sales volumes in China. Economic growth has slowed in China. If we are unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. A downgrade in the ratings of our debt could restrict our ability to access the debt capital markets. Changes in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may ultimately impact our access to the debt capital markets and the costs we incur to borrow funds. If ratings for our debt fall below investment grade, our access to the debt capital markets could become restricted and our cost of borrowing or the interest rate for any subsequently issued debt would likely increase. Our revolving credit agreement includes an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded.  The interest costs on our revolving credit agreement are based on a rating grid agreed to in our credit agreement.  Further, an increase in the level of our indebtedness and related interest costs may increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions and may affect our ability to obtain additional financing. 24 We could incur additional restructuring charges as we continue to execute actions in an effort to improve future profitability and competitiveness and to optimize our product portfolio and may not achieve the anticipated savings and benefits from these actions. We have initiated and may continue to initiate restructuring actions designed to improve the competitiveness of our business and sustain our margin profile, optimize our product portfolio or create an optimal legal entity structure. We may not realize anticipated savings or benefits from past or future actions in full or in part or within the time periods we expect. We are also subject to the risks of labor unrest, negative publicity and business disruption in connection with our actions. Failure to realize anticipated savings or benefits from our actions could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks related to our customers We rely on sales to major customers. We rely on sales to OEMs around the world of varying credit quality and manufacturing demands. Supply to several of these customers requires significant investment by the Company. We base our growth projections, in part, on commitments made by our customers. These commitments generally renew yearly during a program life cycle. Among other things, the level of production orders we receive is dependent on the ability of our OEM customers to design and sell products that consumers desire to purchase. If actual production orders from our customers do not approximate such commitments due to a variety of factors including non-renewal of purchase orders, a customer's financial hardship or other unforeseen reasons, it could adversely affect our business. Some of our sales are concentrated. Our worldwide sales in 2020 to Ford and Volkswagen constituted approximately 13% and 11% of our 2020 consolidated net sales, respectively. We are sensitive to the effects of our major customers’ labor relations. All three of our primary North American customers, Ford, Stellantis, and General Motors, have major union contracts with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America. Because of domestic OEMs' dependence on a single union, we are affected by labor difficulties and work stoppages at OEMs' facilities. Similarly, a majority of our global customers' operations outside of North America are also represented by various unions. Any extended work stoppage at one or more of our customers could have an adverse effect on our business. Risks related to our suppliers We could be adversely affected by supply shortages of components from our suppliers. In an effort to manage and reduce the cost of purchased goods and services, we have been rationalizing our supply base. As a result, we are dependent on fewer sources of supply for certain components used in the manufacture of our products. We select suppliers based on total value (including total landed price, quality, delivery, and technology), taking into consideration their production capacities and financial condition. We expect that they will deliver to our stated written expectations. However, there can be no assurance that capacity limitations, industry shortages, labor or social unrest, weather emergencies, commercial disputes, government actions, riots, wars, sabotage, cyber attacks, non-conforming parts, acts of terrorism, “Acts of God,” or other problems that our suppliers experience will not result in occasional shortages or delays in their supply of components to us. If we were to experience a significant or prolonged shortage of critical components from any of our suppliers and could not procure the components from other sources, we would be unable to meet the production schedules for some of our key products and could miss customer delivery expectations. In addition, with 25 fewer sources of supply for certain components, each supplier may perceive that it has greater leverage and, therefore, some ability to seek higher prices from us at a time that we face substantial pressure from OEMs to reduce the prices of our products. This could adversely affect our customer relations and business. Suppliers’ economic distress could result in the disruption of our operations and could adversely affect our business. Rapidly changing industry conditions such as volatile production volumes; our need to seek price reductions from our suppliers as a result of the substantial pressure we face from OEMs to reduce the prices of our products; credit tightness; changes in foreign currencies; raw material, commodity, tariffs, transportation, and energy price escalation; drastic changes in consumer preferences; and other factors could adversely affect our supply chain, and sometimes with little advance notice. These conditions could also result in increased commercial disputes and supply interruption risks. In certain instances, it would be difficult and expensive for us to change suppliers that are critical to our business. On occasion, we must provide financial support to distressed suppliers or take other measures to protect our supply lines. We cannot predict with certainty the potential adverse effects these costs might have on our business. We are subject to possible insolvency of financial counterparties. We engage in numerous financial transactions and contracts including insurance policies, letters of credit, credit line agreements, financial derivatives, and investment management agreements involving various counterparties. We are subject to the risk that one or more of these counterparties may become insolvent and therefore be unable to meet its obligations under such contracts. Other risks A variety of other factors could adversely affect our business. Any of the following could materially and adversely affect our business: the loss of or changes in supply contracts or sourcing strategies of our major customers or suppliers; start-up expenses associated with new vehicle programs or delays or cancellation of such programs; low levels of utilization of our manufacturing facilities, which can be dependent on a single product line or customer; inability to recover engineering and tooling costs; market and financial consequences of recalls that may be required on products we supplied; delays or difficulties in new product development; the possible introduction of similar or superior technologies by others; global excess capacity and vehicle platform proliferation; and the impact of fire, flood, or other natural disasters including pandemics and quarantines.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

INTRODUCTION BorgWarner Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a global product leader in clean and efficient technology solutions for combustion, hybrid and electric vehicles. Our products help improve vehicle performance, propulsion efficiency, stability and air quality. These products are manufactured and sold worldwide, primarily to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) of light vehicles (passenger cars, sport-utility vehicles (“SUVs”), vans and light trucks). The Company’s products are also sold to other OEMs of commercial vehicles (medium-duty trucks, heavy-duty trucks and buses) and off-highway vehicles (agricultural and construction machinery and marine applications). We also manufacture and sell our products to certain Tier One vehicle systems suppliers and into the aftermarket for light, commercial and off-highway vehicles. The Company operates manufacturing facilities serving customers in Europe, the Americas and Asia and is an original equipment supplier to nearly every major automotive OEM in the world. Acquisition of Delphi Technologies PLC On October 1, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of 100% of the outstanding ordinary shares of Delphi Technologies PLC (“Delphi Technologies”) from the shareholders of Delphi Technologies pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Agreement, dated January 28, 2020, as amended on May 6, 2020, by and between the Company and Delphi Technologies (the “Transaction Agreement”). Pursuant to the terms of the Transaction Agreement, the Company issued, in exchange for each Delphi Technologies share, 0.4307 of a share of common stock of the Company and cash in lieu of any fractional share. In the aggregate, the Company delivered consideration of approximately $2.4 billion, including approximately 37 million shares of common stock of the Company, valued at $1.5 billion, repayment of approximately $900 million of Delphi Technologies’ debt and stock-based compensation of approximately $15 million. Upon closing, the Company also assumed approximately $800 million in senior notes as discussed below. The acquisition is expected to strengthen the Company’s electronics and power electronics products, capabilities and scale, position the Company for greater growth as electrified propulsion systems gain momentum and enhance key combustion, commercial vehicle and aftermarket product offerings. On October 5, 2020, the Company completed its offer to exchange approximately $800 million in aggregate principal amount of Delphi Technologies’ outstanding 5.000% Senior Notes due 2025 (the “DT Notes”). Approximately $776 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding DT Notes, representing 97% of the $800 million total outstanding principal amount of the DT Notes, were validly exchanged and cancelled for new BorgWarner notes. Following such cancellation, approximately $24 million in aggregate principal amount of the DT Notes remain outstanding. Since the majority of the DT Notes were exchanged, the Company was able to eliminate substantially all of the restrictive covenants and events of default not related to payment on the $800 million in outstanding senior notes of the Company. 31 Following the Delphi Technologies acquisition, to align with the manner in which the business is viewed and managed subsequent to the acquisition, the Company reorganized its management reporting structure. Previously, the Company reported its results under two reporting segments, Engine and Drivetrain, which are now referred to as Air Management and e-Propulsion & Drivetrain, respectively. The former Delphi Technologies Powertrain Products segment was integrated into the Air Management segment and the former Delphi Technologies Electronics & Electrification segment was integrated into the e-Propulsion & Drivetrain segment. The remaining Delphi Technologies segments comprise two additional reporting segments, which are referred to as Fuel Injection and Aftermarket. Results of operations for Delphi Technologies are included in the Company’s financial information following the date of acquisition on October 1, 2020. COVID-19 Pandemic Update To date, COVID-19 has surfaced in nearly all regions around the world and has resulted, at times, in travel restrictions, closing of borders and business slowdowns or shutdowns in affected areas. Many OEMs temporarily suspended certain manufacturing operations, particularly in North America and Europe, due to market conditions and matters associated with COVID-19. Furthermore, COVID-19 has impacted and may further impact the broader economies of affected countries, including negatively impacting economic growth, the proper functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The continued spread of COVID-19 has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets, which adversely impact the access to capital and increase the cost of capital. In response to the outbreak and business disruption, we, first and foremost, prioritized the health and safety of our employees. As a global manufacturer, we have responded to shelter-in-place and similar government orders in various locations around the world, including throughout the United States and Europe. Additionally, our employees must respond to self-isolation and quarantine orders based on circumstances in their local communities, which continues to impact our facilities. The reopening procedures related to COVID-19 led to a number of employee safety measures upon reopening to contain the spread, including domestic and international travel restrictions, work-from-home practices, extensive cleaning protocols, social distancing guidelines, requirement for employees to wear masks and various temporary closures of or reduced operations at our manufacturing and assembly facilities. In April 2020, we implemented a range of actions aimed at temporarily reducing costs and preserving liquidity. These actions included, but were not limited to: • a temporary 20% reduction in base salaries of our senior executive leadership team and annual retainers of our non-employee directors; • up to 10% temporary base pay reductions for other salaried employees; and • reductions in discretionary spending, such as outside professional services and travel. Effective September 1, 2020, all of the base pay and annual retainer reductions had been eliminated. We continue to monitor the evolving situation and guidance from international and domestic authorities, including federal, state and local public health authorities and may take additional actions based on their recommendations. In these circumstances, there may be developments outside our control requiring us to adjust our operating plan. To date, COVID-19 has had a material adverse impact on our revenue and overall profitability, primarily in the quarter ended June 30, 2020. Significant reductions in automotive or truck production have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the Company’s sales to OEMs. While production levels increased in the third and fourth quarters and revenue and profitability improved, COVID-19 continues to impact our business globally, and it is possible 32 COVID-19 could result in adverse impacts in the future. We cannot reasonably estimate the full impacts COVID-19 could have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the future. As of December 31, 2020, we had liquidity of $3,650 million, comprised of cash and cash equivalent balances of $1,650 million and an undrawn revolving credit facility of $2,000 million. We were in full compliance with our covenants under the revolving credit facility and had full access to our undrawn revolving credit facility. Debt maturities through the end of 2021 total $45 million. Given our strong liquidity position, we believe that the Company will have sufficient liquidity and will maintain compliance with all covenants throughout the next 12 months. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS A detailed comparison of the Company’s 2018 operating results to its 2019 operating results can be found in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section in the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed February 13, 2020. The following table presents a summary of our operating results: 33 Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled $10,165 million, approximately the same as net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019. During the three months ended December 31, 2020, the Delphi Technologies acquisition increased revenues by $1,120 million. Excluding this revenue, total net sales declined by 11% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Excluding the impact of weaker foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, and the net impact of the Delphi Technologies acquisition, net sales decreased approximately 11%, primarily due to COVID-19 related production slowdowns and shutdowns during the first six months of 2020, partially offset by stronger sales in China. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 81.2% and 79.3% in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Cost of sales associated with Delphi Technologies for the three months ended December 31, 2020 was approximately $900 million. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, cost of sales decreased primarily due to lower sales. The Company's material cost of sales was approximately 57% and 55% of net sales in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 18.8% and 20.7% in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The reduction of gross margin in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company took numerous steps to eliminate costs; however, certain fixed costs could not be reduced on a temporary basis, which led to a higher cost of sales as a percentage of sales as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. In addition, the $27 million related to the fair value adjustment of inventories acquired had an unfavorable impact on gross margin and, to a lesser extent, certain lower margin business related to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies. Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) was $951 million and $873 million, or 9.4% and 8.6% of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. SG&A increased as a result of the three months of activity related to Delphi Technologies following the acquisition on October 1, 2020. The increase related to Delphi Technologies was partially offset by savings and actions taken during the year in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Research and development (“R&D”) costs, net of customer reimbursements, were $476 million, or 4.7% of net sales, in the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $413 million, or 4.1% of net sales, in the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase of R&D costs, net of customer reimbursements, in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, which increased R&D costs by $66 million during the three months ended December 31, 2020. We will continue to invest in a number of cross-business R&D programs, as well as a number of other key programs, all of which are necessary for short- and long-term growth. Our current long-term expectation for R&D spending is in the range of 5.0% to 5.5% of net sales. Restructuring expense was $203 million and $72 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily related to employee benefit costs. The increase in 2020 was primarily due to increased costs related to the announced closure of two facilities in Europe affecting approximately 550 employees and contractually required severance and stock-based compensation associated with the Delphi Technologies acquisition. In February 2020, the Company announced a cost restructuring plan to address existing structural costs. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded $148 million of restructuring expense related to this plan. These actions are expected to result in a total of $300 million of restructuring costs through 2022. The resulting annual gross savings is expected to be $90 million to $100 million and will be utilized to sustain overall operating margin profile and cost competitiveness. Nearly all of the restructuring charges are expected to be cash expenditures. In April 2019, the Company announced a cost restructuring plan including several actions to reduce existing structural costs. These actions were primarily completed during fourth quarter 2019 and resulted 34 in approximately $50 million of restructuring expense. The resulting annual gross cost reduction is expected to be in the range of $40 million to $50 million by 2021. The Company recorded approximately $54 million in restructuring during the three months ended December 31, 2020, related to legacy Delphi Technologies. In conjunction with the acquisition, there were contractually required severance and post-combination stock-based compensation cash payments to legacy Delphi Technologies executive officers and other employee termination benefits. Additionally, in 2019, legacy Delphi Technologies announced a restructuring plan to reshape and realign its global technical center footprint and reduce salaried and contract staff, with expected charges of up to $175 million. Certain of these actions are subject to consultation with employee works councils and other employee representatives. The majority of these actions are expected to be completed by the end of 2021. Nearly all of the restructuring charges are expected to be cash expenditures. Other operating expense (income), net - other represents items other than restructuring expense and was expense of $138 million and income of $147 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In this line item for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 is merger, acquisition and divestiture expense of $96 million and $11 million, respectively. The increase in 2020 was primarily related to professional fees associated with the acquisition of Delphi Technologies completed on October 1, 2020. As a result of an evaluation of the underlying technologies and management of the business subsequent to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, the Company reduced the useful life of certain intangible assets during the fourth quarter of 2020 as they no longer provided future economic benefit. This resulted in accelerated amortization expense of $38 million recorded within this line item. In addition, the year ended December 31, 2019 included a pre-tax gain of $177 million related to the derecognition of BorgWarner Morse TEC LLC (“Morse TEC”), which was a consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company that held asbestos and certain other liabilities and was the policyholder of the related insurance assets. Also related to this matter, the Company recorded tax expense as a result of the reversal of the previously recorded deferred tax assets related to the asbestos liabilities of $173 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of $4 million. Refer to Note 21, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information. This line item is primarily comprised of operating expense (income) items discussed within the subtitle “Non-comparable items impacting the Company’s earnings per diluted share and net earnings” below. Equity in affiliates’ earnings, net of tax was $18 million and $32 million in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. This line item is driven by the results of our unconsolidated joint ventures, NSK-Warner K.K., Turbo Energy Private Limited (“TEL”) and Delphi-TVS Diesel Systems Ltd. The decrease in equity in affiliates' earnings in the year ended December 31, 2020 was due to lower industry volumes and cost pressures in a reduced market. Unrealized gain on equity securities was $382 million in the year ended December 31, 2020. This line item reflects the net unrealized gain recognized during 2020 related to the Company’s equity securities in Romeo Systems, Inc. (now known as Romeo Power, Inc.) which became a public company in December 2020. For further details, see Note 2, “Acquisitions,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Interest expense was $73 million and $55 million in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to the Company’s issuance of $1.1 billion senior notes in June 2020 and the $800 million DT Notes acquired as part of the Delphi Technologies acquisition. 35 Provision for income taxes the provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 41.2% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared with the rate of 37.1% for the year ended December 31, 2019. For further details, see Note 7, “Income Taxes,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The effective tax rate was approximately 41% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Unfavorably impacting the effective tax rate in 2020 was income tax expense related to final U.S. Department of Treasury regulations issued in the third quarter of 2020, that impacted the net tax on remittance of foreign earnings and certain tax law changes in India effective in the first quarter of 2020. In addition, we recognized incremental valuation allowances of $53 million in 2020. Also unfavorably impacting the effective tax rate were certain restructuring expenses and merger and acquisition related transaction costs that were non-deductible for tax purposes. Excluding the impact of non-comparable items, the Company’s annual effective tax rate associated with ongoing operations was 32% for the year ended December 31, 2020. The effective tax rate was approximately 37% for the year ended December 31, 2019. The effective tax rate for 2019 included an increase in income tax expense of $173 million related to the derecognition of the Morse TEC asbestos-related deferred tax assets and $22 million due to the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s issuance of the final regulations in the first quarter of 2019 related to the calculation of the one-time transition tax. The 2019 effective tax rate also included reductions of income tax expense of $19 million related to restructuring expense, $11 million for a global realignment plan, $8 million related to other one-time adjustments and $6 million related to pension settlement loss. Excluding the impact of non-comparable items, the Company’s annual effective tax rate was 26% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Net earnings attributable to the noncontrolling interest, net of tax of $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased by $16 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was due to growth in sales in China, resulting in increased profit in joint ventures and the addition of noncontrolling interests from the Delphi Technologies acquisition. 36 Non-comparable items impacting the Company's earnings per diluted share and net earnings The Company’s earnings per diluted share were $2.34 and $3.61 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The non-comparable items presented below are calculated after tax using the corresponding effective tax rate and the weighted average number of diluted shares for each of the years then ended. The Company believes the following table is useful in highlighting non-comparable items that impacted its earnings per diluted share: ________________ 37 Results By Reporting Segment The Company's business is comprised of four reporting segments:  Air Management, e-Propulsion & Drivetrain, Fuel Injection and Aftermarket. The Company allocates resources to each segment based upon the projected after-tax return on invested capital (“ROIC”) of its business initiatives. ROIC is comprised of Segment Adjusted EBIT after deducting notional taxes compared to the projected average capital investment required. Segment Adjusted EBIT is comprised of earnings before interest, income taxes and noncontrolling interest (“EBIT”) adjusted for restructuring, goodwill impairment charges, affiliates' earnings and other items not reflective of ongoing operating income or loss. Segment Adjusted EBIT excludes certain corporate costs which primarily represents headquarters' expenses not directly attributable to the individual segments. Corporate expenses not allocated to Segment Adjusted EBIT were $192 million and $206 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. An increase in corporate expenses related to the acquisition of Delphi Technologies in 2020 was more than offset by savings and actions taken during the year in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including decreased compensation expense, resulting in a decrease compared to 2019. Segment Adjusted EBIT is the measure of segment income or loss used by the Company. The Company believes Segment Adjusted EBIT is most reflective of the operational profitability or loss of our reporting segments. The following table shows Segment Adjusted EBIT for the Company's reporting segments. Segment Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Income Taxes and Noncontrolling Interest (“Segment Adjusted EBIT”) The Air Management segment’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased $536 million, or 8.6%, and Segment Adjusted EBIT decreased $233 million, or 23.4%, from the year ended December 31, 2019. The Delphi Technologies acquisition increased Air Management revenues by $312 million in 2020. Excluding the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures and of strengthening foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, net sales decreased 13.5% from the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in sales was due to COVID-19 related production slowdowns and shutdowns during the first six months of 2020, partially offset by growing demand for the Company’s products. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 13.4% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 16.0% in the year ended December 31, 2019. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin decrease was primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of increased warranty costs. The e-Propulsion & Drivetrain segment’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased $26 million, or 0.6%, and Segment Adjusted EBIT decreased $84 million, or 19.0%, from the year ended December 31, 2019. The Delphi Technologies acquisition increased e-Propulsion & Drivetrain revenues by $255 million in 2020. Excluding the net impact of the acquisition and of strengthening foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, net sales decreased 7.2% from the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in sales was due to COVID-19 related production slowdowns and shutdowns during the first six months of 2020, which was partially offset by growing demand for the Company’s products and stronger 38 sales in China. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 9.0% in the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to 11.0% in the year ended December 31, 2019. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin decrease was primarily due to the impact of lower net sales, higher research and development spending and to a lesser extent the impact of the Delphi Technologies acquisition, during the three months ended December 31, 2020. The Fuel Injection segment's net sales and Segment Adjusted EBIT for the three months December 31, 2020 were $479 million and $39 million, respectively. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 8.1% in the three months ended December 31, 2020. This is a new reporting segment following the acquisition of Delphi Technologies on October 1, 2020. The Aftermarket segment's net sales and Segment Adjusted EBIT for the three months ended December 31, 2020 were $194 million and $22 million, respectively. The Segment Adjusted EBIT margin was 11.3% in the three months ended December 31, 2020. This is a new reporting segment following the acquisition of Delphi Technologies on October 1, 2020. Outlook Our overall outlook for 2021 is positive. The Company expects global industry production to increase year over year due to the negative effects of COVID-19 on 2020 production not recurring in 2021. The Company expects net new business-related sales growth, due to increased penetration of BorgWarner products around the world, to drive a sales increase in line with or greater than the year-over-year increase in industry production. As result, the Company expects increasing revenue in 2021, excluding the impact of foreign currencies and the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures. The Company maintains a positive long-term outlook for its global business and is committed to new product development and strategic capital investments to enhance its product leadership strategy. There are several trends that are driving the Company's long-term growth that we expect to continue, including adoption of product offerings for electrified vehicles, increasingly stringent global emissions standards that support demand for the Company’s products driving vehicle efficiency and increased global penetration of all-wheel drive. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company maintains various liquidity sources including cash and cash equivalents and the unused portion of our multi-currency revolving credit agreement. At December 31, 2020, the Company had $1,650 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which $1,088 million of cash and cash equivalents was held by our subsidiaries outside of the United States. Cash and cash equivalents held by these subsidiaries is used to fund foreign operational activities and future investments, including acquisitions. The vast majority of cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States is available for repatriation. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) reduced the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred. As of January 1, 2018, funds repatriated from foreign subsidiaries are generally no longer taxable for U.S. federal tax purposes. In light of the treatment of foreign earnings under the Tax Act, the Company recorded a liability for the U.S. federal and applicable state income tax liabilities calculated under the provisions of the deemed repatriation of foreign earnings. A deferred tax liability has been recorded for substantially all estimated legally distributable foreign earnings. The Company uses its U.S. liquidity primarily for various corporate purposes, including but not limited to debt service, share repurchases, dividend distributions, acquisitions and divestitures and other corporate expenses. On March 13, 2020, the Company amended its multi-currency revolving credit facility, by increasing the size of the facility from $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion and by extending the maturity until March 13, 2025. 39 The multi-currency revolving credit agreement automatically increased to $2.0 billion upon the closing of the acquisition of Delphi Technologies on October 1, 2020. Additionally, the agreement allows the Company the ability to increase the facility by $1.0 billion with bank group approval. The credit agreement contains customary events of default and one key financial covenant, which is a debt-to-EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization) ratio. The Company was in compliance with the financial covenant at December 31, 2020. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under this facility. The Company's commercial paper program allows the Company to issue $2.0 billion of short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes under the limits of its multi-currency revolving credit facility. The commercial paper program automatically increased to $2.0 billion upon the closing of the acquisition of Delphi Technologies on October 1, 2020. Under this program, the Company may issue notes from time to time and use the proceeds for general corporate purposes. The Company had no outstanding borrowings under this program as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. The total current combined borrowing capacity under the multi-currency revolving credit facility and commercial paper program cannot exceed $2.0 billion. In addition to the credit facility, the Company's universal shelf registration provides the ability to issue various debt and equity instruments subject to market conditions. On February 12, 2020, April 29, 2020, July 29, 2020 and November 11, 2020, the Company’s Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.17 per share of common stock. These dividends were paid on March 16, 2020, June 15, 2020, September 15, 2020 and December 15, 2020, respectively. From a credit quality perspective, the Company had a credit rating of BBB+ from both Standard & Poor's and Fitch Ratings and Baa1 from Moody's as of December 31, 2019, with a stable outlook from all rating agencies. On January 28, 2020, the Company entered into the agreement to acquire Delphi Technologies. During 2020 , due to the recent business disruptions from COVID-19 and uncertainties surrounding the Delphi Technologies acquisition, Standard & Poor's downgraded the Company's rating from BBB+ with a stable outlook to BBB with a negative outlook. Additionally, Moody's and Fitch adjusted their outlooks from stable to negative but have maintained the Company's credit ratings at Baa1 and BBB+, respectively. None of the Company's debt agreements require accelerated repayment in the event of a downgrade in credit ratings. 40 Cash Flows Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,184 million and $1,008 million in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to 2019 cash outflows related to the 2019 derecognition of Morse TEC, a former wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, that held asbestos and certain other liabilities, which included a contribution by the Company to Morse TEC of approximately $172 million. During 2020, there were lower net investments in working capital (excluding working capital acquired in the Delphi Technologies acquisition), partially offset by incremental retirement benefit plan contributions made in December 2020 to the the Delphi Technologies Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom, which is discussed further below. 41 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $866 million and $489 million in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to cash outflows related to the 2020 acquisition of Delphi Technologies. Capital expenditures, including tooling outlays, were $40 million lower in 2020 primarily due to lower overall spending as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by capital expenditures in the Company’s fourth quarter from the acquisition of Delphi Technologies. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $437 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 and net cash used in financing activities was $420 million in the year ended December 31, 2019. This increase was primarily driven by the Company’s issuance of $1.1 billion in 2.650% senior notes, partially offset by the repayment of the $250 million in 4.625% senior notes and higher share repurchases. 42 Contractual Obligations The Company's significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2020 are as follows: ________________ (a) Other postretirement employee benefits, excluding pensions, include anticipated future payments to cover retiree medical and life insurance benefits. Amount contained in “More than 5 years” column includes estimated payments through 2030. Refer to Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for disclosures related to the Company’s other postretirement employee benefits. (b) Since the timing and amount of payments for funded defined benefit pension plans are usually not certain for future years such potential payments are not shown in this table. Amount contained in “More than 5 years” column is for unfunded plans and includes estimated payments through 2030. Refer to Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for disclosures related to the Company’s pension benefits. We believe that the combination of cash from operations, cash balances, available credit facilities, and the universal shelf registration capacity will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for our current level of operations and our planned operations for the foreseeable future. We will continue to balance our needs for internal growth, external growth, debt reduction and cash conservation. Pension and Other Postretirement Employee Benefits The Company's policy is to fund its defined benefit pension plans in accordance with applicable government regulations and to make additional contributions when appropriate. At December 31, 2020, all legal funding requirements had been met. The Company contributed $174 million, $26 million and $26 million to its defined benefit pension plans in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. On October 1, 2020, as a result of the acquisition of Delphi Technologies, the Company assumed all of the retirement-related liabilities of Delphi Technologies, the most significant of which is the Delphi Technologies Pension Scheme (the “Scheme”) in the United Kingdom. On December 12, 2020, the Company entered into a Heads of Terms Agreement (the “Agreement”) with the Trustees of the Scheme related to the future funding of the Scheme. Under the Agreement, the Company eliminated the prior schedule of contributions between Delphi Technologies and the Scheme in exchange for a $137 million (£100 million) one-time contribution into the Scheme Plan by December 31, 2020, which was paid on December 15, 2020. The Agreement also contained other provisions regarding the implementation of a revised asset investment strategy as well as a funding progress test that will be performed every three years to determine if additional contributions need to be made into the Scheme by the Company. At this time, the Company anticipates that no additional contributions will be made into the Scheme until 2026 at the earliest. The Company expects to contribute a total of $20 million to $30 million into its defined benefit pension plans during 2021. Of the $20 million to $30 million in projected 2021 contributions, $6 million are contractually obligated, while any remaining payments would be discretionary. The funded status of all pension plans was a net unfunded position of $501 million and $212 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Of these amounts, $139 million and $107 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, were related to plans in Germany, where there is no tax deduction allowed under the applicable regulations to fund the plans; hence, the common practice is to 43 make contributions as benefit payments become due. Additionally, $186 million of the net unfunded position at December 31, 2020 relates to the acquired Delphi Technologies Pension Scheme in the United Kingdom, which includes the $137 million contribution as discussed above. Other postretirement employee benefits primarily consist of postretirement health care benefits for certain employees and retirees of the Company's U.S. operations. The Company funds these benefits as retiree claims are incurred. Other postretirement employee benefits had an unfunded status of $65 million and $81 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company believes it will be able to fund the requirements of these plans through cash generated from operations or other available sources of financing for the foreseeable future. Refer to Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding costs and assumptions for employee retirement benefits. OTHER MATTERS Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is party to various commercial and legal claims, actions and complaints, including matters involving warranty claims, intellectual property claims, general liability and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company will ultimately be successful in any of these commercial and legal matters or, if not, what the impact might be. The Company's environmental and product liability contingencies are discussed separately below. The Company's management does not expect that an adverse outcome in any of these commercial and legal claims, actions and complaints will have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows, although it could be material to the results of operations in a particular quarter. Environmental The Company and certain of its current and former direct and indirect corporate predecessors, subsidiaries and divisions have been identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and certain state environmental agencies and private parties as potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at various hazardous waste disposal sites under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund”) and equivalent state laws and, as such, may presently be liable for the cost of clean-up and other remedial activities at 26 such sites. Responsibility for clean-up and other remedial activities at a Superfund site is typically shared among PRPs based on an allocation formula. The Company believes that none of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Generally, this is because either the estimates of the maximum potential liability at a site are not material or the liability will be shared with other PRPs, although no assurance can be given with respect to the ultimate outcome of any such matter. Refer to Note 21, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for further details and information respecting the Company’s environmental liability. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). In preparing these financial statements, management 44 has made its best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality. Critical accounting policies are those that are most important to the portrayal of the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require management's most difficult, subjective or complex judgments in the preparation of the financial statements and accompanying notes. Management makes estimates and assumptions about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain, relating to the reporting of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Our most critical accounting policies are discussed below. Business combinations The Company allocates the cost of an acquired business to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The excess value of the cost of an acquired business over the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. The valuation of the acquired assets and liabilities will impact the determination of future operating results. The Company uses a variety of information sources to determine the value of acquired assets and liabilities including: third-party appraisers for the values and lives of property, identifiable intangibles and inventories; and actuaries for defined benefit retirement plans. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units as of the date of the related acquisition. If goodwill is assigned to more than one reporting unit, the Company utilizes a method that is consistent with the manner in which the amount of goodwill in a business combination is determined. Costs related to the acquisition of a business are expensed as incurred. The Company estimates the fair value of acquired customer relationships using the multi-period excess earnings method. Value is estimated as the present value of the benefits anticipated from ownership of the asset, in excess of the returns required on the investment in contributory assets which are necessary to realize those benefits. The intangible asset’s estimated earnings are determined as the residual earnings after quantifying estimated earnings from contributory assets. Assumptions used in these calculations are considered from a market participant perspective and include revenue growth rates, estimated earnings, contributory asset charges, customer attrition and discount rates. The Company estimates the fair value of trade names and developed technology using the relief from royalty method, which calculates the cost savings associated with owning rather than licensing the assets. Assumed royalty rates are applied to projected revenue for the remaining useful lives of the assets to estimate the royalty savings. Assumptions in the determination of the fair value of the developed technology included revenue growth rates, royalty rates, obsolescence factors and discount rates. Assumptions used in the determination of the fair value of the trade name included the revenue growth rates, the royalty rate and discount rate. While the Company uses its best estimates and assumptions, fair value estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Any adjustments required after the measurement period are recorded in the consolidated statement of earnings. Future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that are used in our acquisition valuations and intangible asset and goodwill impairment testing, including discount rates or future operating results and related cash flow projections, could result in significantly different estimates of the fair values in the future. An increase in discount rates, a reduction in projected cash flows or a combination of the two could lead to a reduction in the estimated fair values, which may result in impairment charges that could materially affect our financial statements in any given year. Impairment of long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets The Company reviews the carrying value of its long-lived assets, whether held for use or disposal, including other amortizing intangible assets, when events and circumstances warrant such a review under ASC Topic 45 360.  In assessing long-lived assets for an impairment loss, assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. In assessing long-lived assets for impairment, management generally considers individual facilities the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent. A recoverability review is performed using the undiscounted cash flows if there is a triggering event. If the undiscounted cash flow test for recoverability identifies a possible impairment, management will perform a fair value analysis. Management determines fair value under ASC Topic 820 using the appropriate valuation technique of market, income or cost approach. If the carrying value of a long-lived asset is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Management believes that the estimates of future cash flows and fair value assumptions are reasonable; however, changes in assumptions underlying these estimates could affect the valuations. Significant judgments and estimates used by management when evaluating long-lived assets for impairment include: (i) an assessment as to whether an adverse event or circumstance has triggered the need for an impairment review; (ii) undiscounted future cash flows generated by the asset; and (iii) fair valuation of the asset. Events and conditions that could result in impairment in the value of our long-lived assets include changes in the industries in which we operate, particularly the impact of a downturn in the global economy, as well as competition and advances in technology, adverse changes in the regulatory environment, or other factors leading to reduction in expected long-term sales or profitability. Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets During the fourth quarter of each year, the Company qualitatively assesses its goodwill assigned to each of its reporting units. This qualitative assessment evaluates various events and circumstances, such as macro-economic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, relevant events and financial trends, that may impact a reporting unit's fair value. Using this qualitative assessment, the Company determines whether it is more-likely-than-not the reporting unit's fair value exceeds its carrying value. If it is determined that it is not more-likely-than-not the reporting unit's fair value exceeds the carrying value, or upon consideration of other factors, including recent acquisition, restructuring or divestiture activity or to refresh the fair values, the Company performs a quantitative, “step one,” goodwill impairment analysis. In addition, the Company may test goodwill in between annual test dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that could more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Similar to goodwill, the Company can elect to perform the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than goodwill (primarily trade names) using a qualitative analysis, considering similar factors as outlined in the goodwill discussion in order to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the trade names is less than the respective carrying values. If the Company elects to perform or is required to perform a quantitative analysis, the test consists of a comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment testing date. The Company estimates the fair value of indefinite-lived intangibles using the relief-from-royalty method, which it believes is an appropriate and widely used valuation technique for such assets. The fair value derived from the relief-from-royalty method is measured as the discounted cash flow savings realized from owning such trade names and not being required to pay a royalty for their use. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company performed an analysis on each reporting unit. Following the acquisition of Delphi Technologies and the resulting reorganization of the business, the Company elected to perform quantitative, “step one,” goodwill impairment analyses for certain reporting units to refresh their respective fair values. This requires the Company to make significant assumptions and estimates about the extent and timing of future cash flows, discount rates and growth rates. The basis of this goodwill impairment analysis is the Company’s annual budget and long-range plan (“LRP”). The annual budget and LRP includes a five-year projection of future cash flows based on actual new products and customer commitments. Because the projections are estimated over a significant future period of time, those estimates and assumptions are subject to uncertainty. Further, the market valuation 46 models and other financial ratios used by the Company require certain assumptions and estimates regarding the applicability of those models to the Company’s facts and circumstances. The Company believes the assumptions and estimates used to determine the estimated fair value are reasonable. Different assumptions could materially affect the estimated fair value. The primary assumptions affecting the Company’s 2020 goodwill quantitative, “step one,” impairment review are as follows: • Discount rate: the Company used a 11.7% weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) as the discount rate for future cash flows. The WACC is intended to represent a rate of return that would be expected by a market participant. • Operating income margin: the Company used historical and expected operating income margins, which may vary based on the projections of the reporting unit being evaluated. • Revenue growth rate: the Company used a global automotive market industry growth rate forecast adjusted to estimate its own market participation for product lines. In addition to the above primary assumptions, the Company notes the following risks to volume and operating income assumptions that could have an impact on the discounted cash flow models: • The automotive industry is cyclical, and the Company's results of operations would be adversely affected by industry downturns. • The Company is dependent on market segments that use our key products and would be affected by decreasing demand in those segments. • The Company is subject to risks related to international operations. Based on the assumptions outlined above, the impairment testing conducted in the fourth quarter of 2020 indicated the Company’s goodwill assigned to the respective reporting units was not impaired. Future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates from those used in acquisition-related valuations and goodwill impairment testing, including discount rates or future operating results and related cash flow projections, could result in significantly different estimates of the fair values in the future. An increase in discount rates, a reduction in projected cash flows or a combination of the two could lead to a reduction in the estimated fair values, which may result in impairment charges that could materially affect our financial statements in any given year. Refer to Note 12, “Goodwill And Other Intangibles,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding goodwill. 47 Product warranties The Company provides warranties on some, but not all, of its products. The warranty terms are typically from one to three years. Provisions for estimated expenses related to product warranty are made at the time products are sold. These estimates are established using historical information about the nature, frequency and average cost of warranty claim settlements as well as product manufacturing and industry developments and recoveries from third parties. Management actively studies trends of warranty claims and takes action to improve product quality and minimize warranty claims. Management believes that the warranty accrual is appropriate; however, actual claims incurred could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to the accrual: The following table illustrates the sensitivity of a 25 basis-point change (as a percentage of net sales) in the assumed warranty trend on the Company's accrued warranty liability: At December 31, 2020, the total accrued warranty liability was $253 million. The accrual is represented as $164 million in current liabilities and $89 million in non-current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to Note 13, “Product Warranty,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding product warranties. Pension and other postretirement defined benefits The Company provides postretirement defined benefits to a number of its current and former employees. Costs associated with postretirement defined benefits include pension and postretirement health care expenses for employees, retirees and surviving spouses and dependents. The Company’s defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans are accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 715. The determination of the Company’s obligation and expense for its pension and other postretirement employee benefits, such as retiree health care, is dependent on certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts. Certain assumptions, including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rate, rates of increase in compensation and health care costs trends are described in Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The effects of any modification to those assumptions are either recognized immediately or amortized over future periods in accordance with GAAP. 48 In accordance with GAAP, actual results that differ from assumptions used are accumulated and generally amortized over future periods. The primary assumptions affecting the Company’s accounting for employee benefits under ASC Topics 712 and 715 as of December 31, 2020 are as follows: • Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets : The expected long-term rate of return is used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost. The required use of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate actual earned long-term returns. The expected long-term rate of return for pension assets has been determined based on various inputs, including historical returns for the different asset classes held by the Company’s trusts and its asset allocation, as well as inputs from internal and external sources regarding expected capital market return, inflation and other variables. The Company also considers the impact of active management of the plans’ invested assets. In determining its pension expense for the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company used long-term rates of return on plan assets ranging from 1.5% to 7.7% outside of the U.S. and 6.0% in the U.S. Actual returns on U.S. pension assets were 9.3% and 18.0% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumption of 6.0% for the same years ended. Actual returns on U.K. pension assets were 4.0% and 9.5% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumption of 4.0% for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 5% for the year ended in 2019. Actual returns on German pension assets were 4.3% and 21.0% for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, compared to the expected rate of return assumption of 6.0% for the same years ended. • Discount rate : The discount rate is used to calculate pension and other postretirement employee benefit (“OPEB”) obligations. In determining the discount rate, the Company utilizes a full-yield approach in the estimation of service and interest components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. The Company used discount rates ranging from 0.48% to 12.50% to determine its pension and other benefit obligations as of December 31, 2020, including weighted average discount rates of 2.31% in the U.S., 1.44% outside of the U.S. (including 1.39% in the U.K.) and 1.93% for U.S. other postretirement health care plans. The U.S. and U.K. discount rates reflect the fact that the U.S. and U.K. pension plans have been closed for new participants. • Health care cost trend : For postretirement employee health care plan accounting, the Company reviews external data and Company-specific historical trends for health care cost to determine the health care cost trend rate assumptions. In determining the projected benefit obligation for postretirement employee health care plans as of December 31, 2020, the Company used health care cost trend rates of 6.50%, declining to an ultimate trend rate of 4.75% by the year 2025. While the Company believes that these assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in these assumptions may materially affect the Company's pension and OPEB and its future expense. 49 The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for Company sponsored U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans on its 2021 pre-tax pension expense: The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in discount rate for Company sponsored U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans on its pension obligations: The sensitivity to a change in the discount rate assumption related to the Company’s total 2021 U.S. OPEB expense is expected to be negligible, as any increase in interest expense will be offset by net actuarial gains. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a 25 basis-point change in the assumed health care cost trend related to the Company's OPEB obligation and service and interest cost: Refer to Note 18, “Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding the Company’s retirement benefit plans. Restructuring Restructuring costs may occur when the Company takes action to exit or significantly curtail a part of its operations or implements a reorganization that affects the nature and focus of operations.  A restructuring charge can consist of severance costs associated with reductions to the workforce, costs to terminate an operating lease or contract, professional fees and other costs incurred related to the implementation of restructuring activities. The Company generally records costs associated with voluntary separations at the time of employee acceptance. Costs for involuntary separation programs are recorded when management has approved the plan for separation, the employees are identified and aware of the benefits they are entitled to and it is unlikely that the plan will change significantly. When a plan of separation requires approval by or consultation with the relevant labor organization or government, the costs are recorded upon agreement. Costs associated with benefits that are contingent on the employee continuing to provide service are accrued over the required service period. Income taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. 50 Accounting for income taxes is complex, in part because the Company conducts business globally and therefore files income tax returns in numerous tax jurisdictions. Management judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide provision for income taxes and recording the related assets and liabilities, including accruals for unrecognized tax benefits. In calculating the provision for income taxes on an interim basis, the Company uses an estimate of the annual effective tax rate based upon the facts and circumstances known at each interim period. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, the historical and projected financial performance of the operation recording the net deferred tax asset is considered along with any other pertinent information. Since future financial results may differ from previous estimates, periodic adjustments to the Company’s valuation allowance may be necessary. The Company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. at the federal and state level and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. The determination of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits includes the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions across the Company's global operations. Management judgment is required in determining the accruals for unrecognized tax benefits. In the ordinary course of the Company's business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is less than certain. Accruals for unrecognized tax benefits are established when, despite the belief that tax positions are supportable, there remain certain positions that do not meet the minimum probability threshold, which is a tax position that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority. The Company has certain U.S. state income tax returns and certain non-U.S. income tax returns which are currently under various stages of audit by applicable tax authorities. At December 31, 2019, the Company has a liability for tax positions the Company estimates are not more-likely-than-not to be sustained based on the technical merits, which is included in other current and non-current liabilities. Nonetheless, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued for each year. The Tax Act that was signed into law in December 2017 constitutes a major change to the U.S. tax system. The impact of the Tax Act on the Company is based on management’s current interpretations of the Tax Act, recently issued regulations and related analysis. The Company's tax liability may be materially different based on regulatory developments. In future periods, our effective tax rate could be subject to additional uncertainty as a result of regulatory developments related to the Tax Act. Refer to Note 7, “Income Taxes,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding income taxes. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1, “Summary Of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for more information regarding new applicable accounting pronouncements. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company's primary market risks include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. We are also affected by changes in the prices of commodities used or consumed in our manufacturing operations. Some of our commodity purchase price risk is covered by supply agreements with customers and suppliers. Other commodity purchase price risk is addressed by hedging strategies, which include forward contracts. The Company enters into derivative instruments only with high credit quality counterparties and diversifies its positions across such counterparties in order to reduce its exposure to credit losses. We do not engage in any derivative instruments for purposes other than hedging specific operating risks. 51 We have established policies and procedures to manage sensitivity to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and commodity purchase price risk, which include monitoring the level of exposure to each market risk.  For quantitative disclosures about market risk, refer to Note 17, “Financial Instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for information with respect to interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk and commodity purchase price risk. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. The Company manages its interest rate risk by balancing its exposure to fixed and variable rates while attempting to optimize its interest costs. The Company selectively uses interest rate swaps to reduce market value risk associated with changes in interest rates (fair value hedges). At December 31, 2020, all of the Company’s long-term debt had fixed interest rates. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Foreign currency exchange rate risk is the risk that the Company will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Currently, the Company's most significant currency exposures relate to the Brazil Real, Chinese Renminbi, Euro, Hungarian Forint, Japanese Yen, Korean Won, Mexican Peso and Swedish Krona. The Company mitigates its foreign currency exchange rate risk by establishing local production facilities and related supply chain participants in the markets it serves, by invoicing customers in the same currency as the source of the products and by funding some of its investments in foreign markets through local currency loans. The Company also monitors its foreign currency exposure in each country and implements strategies to respond to changing economic and political environments. In addition, the Company periodically enters into forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps and foreign currency denominated debt designated as net investment hedges to reduce exposure to translation exchange rate risk. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded a deferred loss of $204 million and a deferred gain of $4 million, respectively, both before taxes, for net investment hedges within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The foreign currency translation adjustments during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are shown in the following table, which provides the percentage change in U.S. dollar against the respective currencies and the approximate impacts of these changes recorded within other comprehensive income (loss) for the respective periods. 52 Commodity Price Risk Commodity price risk is the possibility that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in the cost of raw materials used in the production of our products. Commodity forward and option contracts are executed to offset our exposure to potential change in prices mainly for various non-ferrous metals and natural gas consumption used in the manufacturing of vehicle components. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had no material outstanding commodity swap contracts. The related fair value of these swaps was immaterial. Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The matters discussed in this Item 7 include forward looking statements. See “Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.