********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

RISK FACTOR SUMMARY Risks Related to Our Business • Our business, financial condition and results of operations have been and may continue to be adversely affected by COVID-19. • Risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. • We are party to joint ventures and other strategic relationships, which may not be successful and may expose us to special risks and restrictions. • Climate change and regulations associated with climate change could adversely affect our business. • Demand for our HVAC products and services is influenced by weather conditions and seasonality. • Our business and financial performance depend on continued and substantial investments in our information technology infrastructure, which may not yield anticipated benefits and which may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks. • We depend on our intellectual property and have access to certain intellectual property and information of our customers and suppliers. Infringement of or the failure to protect that intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. • We use a variety of raw materials, supplier-provided parts and third-party service providers in our business. Significant shortages, supplier capacity constraints or production disruptions, price increases or tariffs could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products. • We design, manufacture and service products that incorporate advanced technologies. The introduction of new products and technologies involves risks, and we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. • We operate in a competitive environment and our profitability and competitive position depend on our ability to accurately estimate the costs and timing of providing our products and services. • Customers and others may take disruptive actions. • Labor matters may impact our business. • Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our results. • We may not realize expected benefits from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts, and our profitability or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. • Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product and service quality could damage our reputation with customers and negatively impact our results. • We are subject to litigation, environmental and other legal and compliance risks. • We are subject to risks arising from doing business with the U.S. government. • We engage in acquisitions and divestitures and may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses with, or disposing of businesses from, our current operations; therefore, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions and divestitures. • We may recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and certain other intangible assets. • Failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to the capital markets. • We incurred debt obligations, and we may incur additional debt obligations in the future, which could adversely affect our business and profitability and our ability to meet other obligations. Risks Related to the Separation from UTC • We have only operated as an independent company since April 3, 2020, the effective date of the Distribution, and our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. Additionally, we are a smaller, less diversified company than UTC prior to the Separation and the Distribution. • After the Separation and the Distribution, certain members of management, directors and shareowners own stock in UTC, Carrier and Otis Worldwide Corporation ("Otis"), and as a result may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. • We could experience temporary interruptions in business operations and incur additional costs as we further develop information technology infrastructure and transition our data to our stand-alone systems. • We may not be able to engage in desirable capital-raising or strategic transactions following the Separation and the Distribution. • In connection with the Separation into three independent public companies, each of UTC, Carrier and Otis have agreed to indemnify the other parties for certain liabilities. If we are required to pay UTC and/or Otis under these indemnities, 10 our financial results could be negatively impacted. Also, the UTC or Otis indemnities may not be sufficient to hold us harmless from the full amount of liabilities for which UTC and Otis have been allocated responsibility, and UTC and/or Otis may not be able to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations in the future. • If the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of our stock or the stock of UTC, we, as well as UTC, Otis and UTC’s shareowners, could be subject to significant tax liabilities. In addition, if certain internal restructuring transactions were to fail to qualify as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal or non-U.S. income tax purposes, we, as well as UTC and Otis could be subject to significant tax liabilities. In certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify UTC for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the Tax Matters Agreement ("TMA"). • Potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock • The market price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. • Shareowner's percentage of ownership in Carrier's common stock may be diluted in the future. • Quarterly cash dividends may be discontinued or modified, are subject to a number of uncertainties and may affect the price of our common stock. • Our amended and restated bylaws designate the state courts within the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareowners, which could discourage lawsuits against Carrier and our directors and officers. • Anti-takeover provisions could enable our Board of Directors to resist a takeover attempt by a third party and limit the power of our shareowners. General Risks • Natural disasters, epidemics or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may not be fully covered by insurance. • We may be affected by global economic, capital market and political conditions, and conditions in the construction, transportation and infrastructure industries in particular. • Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. • Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. • Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially and adversely affect us. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows can be impacted by the factors set forth subsequently, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Risks Related to Our Business Our business, financial condition and results of operations have been and may continue to be adversely affected by COVID-19. The global outbreak of COVID-19 has severely constrained economic activity and, as a result, has caused a significant contraction in the global economy. In response to this outbreak, governments have taken preventive or protective actions, including imposing restrictions on business operations and travel. Governments have also implemented economic stabilization efforts and other measures to mitigate the economic effects of the outbreak; however, the effectiveness and continuation of those measures remains uncertain. The COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The pandemic continues to result in widespread and extended or partial shutdowns and other restrictions on the operations of non-essential businesses, including construction, hospitality venues, offices and travel. The nature and extent of the continuing impact of COVID-19 on our business, financial condition and results of operations is uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the recent and pending approvals of vaccines, the wide-spread distribution of vaccines and the effectiveness of such vaccines in preventing COVID-19, and the time it takes to vaccinate a sufficient percentage of the U.S. and global populations. Nonetheless, further prolonged closures and restrictions throughout the world or the rollback of 11 reopening measures due to a resurgence of COVID-19 cases and continued decreases in the general level of economic activity may again disrupt our operations and the operations of our suppliers, distributors and customers. As a result of the foregoing, the pandemic and its impact have also affected and could continue to affect the ability of our customers to pay for our products and services and to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, which has resulted in, and could further result in, a decrease and/or cancellation of orders and/or payment delays or defaults. Such conditions may also adversely affect our supply base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy, which could impact our ability to fulfill orders on time or at the anticipated cost. We also may be required to raise additional capital in the future and our access to and cost of financing will depend on, among other things, global economic conditions, conditions in the global financing markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our results of operations and our credit ratings. There is no guarantee that financing will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that it will be available on terms consistent with our expectations. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We have a global business. Approximately 51% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 is derived from international operations, including U.S. export sales. As a result, changes in local and regional economic conditions, including fluctuating exchange rates, may adversely affect demand for our products and the profits generated by our non-U.S. operations because a significant portion of our sales and expenses are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. While we attempt to manage our exchange rate risk, we are not completely insulated from that exposure. Exchange rates can be volatile and a substantial weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could reduce our operating margins in various locations outside of the U.S., which would adversely impact the comparability of our results from period to period. Our international sales and operations are also subject to the risks associated with changes in local government regulations and policies regarding investments, employment, taxation, foreign exchange and capital controls and the repatriation of earnings. Moreover, government regulations and policies regarding international trade, such as import quotas, punitive taxes or tariffs or similar trade barriers, whether imposed by individual governments or regional trade blocs, can affect demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or services or encumber our ability to manufacture or sell or procure products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies by the U.S. or by other countries, such as China and Mexico, where we sell or produce our products and services or procure materials, including as a result of the ongoing trade conflict between the U.S. and China, could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to political and economic instability, changes in foreign national priorities and government budgets, and the risks associated with differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries. We expect that sales to emerging markets will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales as developing nations around the world increase their demand for our products. In addition, as part of our globalization strategy, we have invested in certain countries, including Mexico, Brazil, China, India and countries in the Middle East. Emerging markets can present many risks, including cultural differences (such as employment and business practices), compliance risks, economic and government instability, exchange rate fluctuations and the imposition of foreign exchange and capital controls. While these factors and their impact are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We are party to joint ventures and other strategic relationships, which may not be successful and may expose us to special risks and restrictions. Our business operations, particularly in our HVAC segment, depend on various strategic relationships: namely, joint ventures and non-wholly owned subsidiaries. We sell our products and services through certain key distributor, joint venture and similar relationships, including the Carrier Enterprise joint ventures with Watsco, Inc.; AHI-Carrier FZC ("AHI-Carrier"), a United Arab Emirates-based joint venture with Airconditioning & Heating International FZC, a subsidiary of United Motors & Heavy Equipment Co. LLC; various joint ventures with members of the Midea Group; and Toshiba Carrier, a joint venture with Toshiba with which we have several other joint ventures. Some of our strategic relationships engage in manufacturing and/or product development. Loss of a key channel partner, or a significant downturn or deterioration in the business or financial condition of a key channel partner, joint venture or similar 12 relationship, whether related to, among other things, a labor strike, diminished liquidity or credit unavailability, weak demand for products or delays in the launch of new products, could adversely affect our results of operations in a particular period or the value of our equity investment. If we are not successful in maintaining our strategic distribution relationships, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. In addition, our ability to apply our internal controls and compliance policies to our joint ventures is limited and can expose us to additional financial and reputational risks. We seek to take proactive steps to mitigate these concerns, including through audits and similar reviews. During one such recent audit, for example, Carrier identified certain payments made to AHI-Carrier over a ten-year period for products sold in the ordinary course by that minority-owned joint venture from entities of undetermined affiliation with AHI-Carrier’s distributors and customers, predominantly based in countries in the Commonwealth of Independent States. Carrier does not manage the joint venture and does not direct its treasury or related functions; however, Carrier exercised our audit rights under the joint venture agreement and investigated these third-party payments. As previously disclosed, the Company reported the preliminary findings of our investigation to the SEC and the U.S. Department of Justice in February 2020. In December 2020, the SEC informed the Company that it had concluded its investigation of the matter and did not intend to recommend an enforcement action. Joint ventures and strategic relationships inherently involve certain other risks. Whether or not we hold a majority interest or maintain operational control in such arrangements, our partners and similar business associates may, for example: (1) have economic or business interests or objectives that are inconsistent with or contrary to our own; (2) exercise veto or other rights, to the extent available, to block actions that we believe are in our or the joint venture’s best interests; (3) act contrary to our policies or objectives; or (4) be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations. In addition, there can be no assurance that any particular joint venture or strategic relationship will continue to be beneficial to us in the long term. For example, some of our joint venture or other strategic agreements prohibit us from competing in certain geographic markets or product and services channels, and these restrictions may apply to other products and services we develop or businesses we acquire in the future. Climate change and regulations associated with climate change could adversely affect our business. The effects of climate change, including extreme weather conditions, create financial risks to our business. The effects of climate change could disrupt our operations by impacting the availability and cost of materials and by increasing insurance and other operating costs. The effects of climate change also may impact our decisions to construct new facilities or maintain existing facilities in the areas most prone to physical risks, which could similarly increase our operating and material costs. We could also face indirect financial risks passed through the supply chain that could result in higher prices for our products and the resources needed to produce them. There is a general consensus that greenhouse gas emissions are linked to climate change, and that these emissions must be reduced dramatically to avert its worst effects. As a result, increased public awareness and concern about climate change will likely continue to (1) generate more international, regional and/or national requirements to curtail the use of high global warming potential refrigerants (which are essential to many of our products); (2) increase building energy efficiency; and (3) cause a shift away from the use of fossil fuels as an energy source. In some instances, these requirements may render our existing technology, particularly some of our HVAC and refrigeration products, non-compliant or obsolete. While we are committed to pursuing sustainable solutions for our products, there can be no assurance that our development efforts will be successful, as noted below (see We design, manufacture and service products that incorporate advanced technologies. The introduction of new products and technologies involves risks, and we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. ), that our products will be accepted by the market, that proposed regulations or deregulation will not have an adverse effect on our competitive position, or that economic returns will reflect our investments in new product development. The inconsistent international, regional and/or national requirements associated with climate change regulations also create economic and regulatory uncertainty. There is also regulatory and budgetary uncertainty associated with government incentives, which, if discontinued, could adversely impact the demand for energy-efficient buildings and could increase costs of compliance. Demand for our HVAC products and services is influenced by weather conditions and seasonality. Demand for our HVAC products and services, representing our largest segment by sales, is seasonal and affected by the weather. Cooler than normal summers depress sales of our replacement air conditioning products and services and warmer than 13 normal winters have the same effect on our heating products. Historically, sales to residential HVAC customers tend to be higher in the second and third quarters of the year because, in the U.S. and other northern hemisphere regions, spring and summer are the peak seasons for sales of air conditioning systems and services. In these circumstances, the results of any quarterly period may not be indicative of expected results for a full year, and unusual weather patterns or events could positively or negatively affect our business and impact overall results of operations. Our business and financial performance depend on continued and substantial investments in our information technology infrastructure, which may not yield anticipated benefits and which may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks. The efficient operation of our business requires continued and substantial investments in information technology ("IT") infrastructure systems. The failure to design, develop and implement new IT technology infrastructure systems in an effective and timely manner or to maintain these systems could divert management’s attention and resources. Our information systems may also become obsolete because of inadequate investments, requiring an unplanned transition to a new platform that could be time consuming, costly, and damaging to our competitive position and could require additional management attention. Repeated or prolonged interruptions of service because of poor execution, inadequate investments or obsolescence could have a significant adverse impact on our reputation and our ability to sell products and services. In addition, our business may be impacted by disruptions to our or third-party IT infrastructure, which could result from (among other causes) cyber-attacks, infrastructure failures or compromises to our physical security. Cyber-based risks are evolving and include attacks: (i) on our IT infrastructure (ii) targeting the security, integrity and/or availability of hardware and software; (iii) on information installed, stored or transmitted in our products (including after the purchase of those products and when they are installed into third-party products); and (iv) on facilities or similar infrastructure. Such attacks could disrupt our systems (or those of third parties) and business operations, impact the ability of our products to work as intended or result in the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification, or destruction of information in violation of applicable law and/or contractual obligations. We have experienced cyber-based attacks and, due to the evolving threat landscape, may continue to experience them going forward, potentially with more frequency or severity. We continue to make investments and adopt measures to enhance our protection, detection, response and recovery capabilities, and to mitigate potential risks to our technology, products, services, operations and confidential data. However, depending on the nature, sophistication and scope of cyber-attacks, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period. As a result, we could potentially experience: (i) production downtimes; (ii) operational delays or other detrimental impacts on our operations; (iii) destruction or corruption of data; (iv) security breaches; (v) manipulation or improper use of our or third-party systems, networks or products; and (vi) financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business, liability, penalties, fines and/or damage to our reputation—any of which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Due to the evolving nature of such risks, the impact of any potential incident cannot be predicted. In addition, because of the global nature of our business, our internal systems and products must comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards in a number of jurisdictions, and government enforcement actions and violations of data privacy and cybersecurity laws could be costly or interrupt our business operations. Any disruption to our business arising from such issues, or an increase in our costs to cover these issues that is greater than what we have anticipated, could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, reputation, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We depend on our intellectual property and have access to certain intellectual property and information of our customers and suppliers. Infringement of or the failure to protect that intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. The Company's intellectual property rights are important to our business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, proprietary technology, technical data, business processes and other confidential information. Although we consider our intellectual property rights in the aggregate to be valuable, we do not believe that our business is materially dependent on a single intellectual property right or any group of them. We nonetheless rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements, customer and supplier agreements, license agreements, information technology security systems, internal controls and compliance systems and other measures to protect our intellectual property. We also rely on nondisclosure agreements, information technology security systems and other measures to protect certain customer and supplier information and intellectual property that we have in our possession or to which we have access. Our efforts to protect such intellectual property and proprietary information may not be sufficient, however. We cannot be sure that our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents, that patents issued to or licensed by us in the past or in the future will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be 14 found to be valid or sufficiently broad to preclude our competitors from introducing technologies similar to those covered by our patents and patent applications. In addition, we may be the target of competitor or other third-party patent enforcement actions seeking substantial monetary damages or seeking to prevent the sale and marketing of certain of our products. Our competitive position also may be adversely impacted by limitations on our ability to obtain possession, ownership or necessary licenses concerning data important to the development or sale of our products or service offerings, or by limitations on our ability to restrict the use by others of data related to our products or services. Any of these events or factors could subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services and could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We use a variety of raw materials, supplier-provided parts, and third-party service providers in our business. Significant shortages, supplier capacity constraints or production disruptions, price increases, or tariffs could increase our operating costs and adversely impact the competitive positions of our products. Our reliance on suppliers and commodity markets to secure components and raw materials (such as copper, aluminum and steel), and on service providers to deliver our products, exposes us to volatility in the prices and availability of these materials and services. That potential volatility is particularly acute in certain instances where we depend upon a single source. Issues with suppliers (such as delivery or production disruptions, capacity constraints, quality issues, consolidations, closings or bankruptcies), price increases, raw material shortages, or the decreased availability of trucks and other delivery services could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We use various strategies to lock in prices of expected purchases of certain raw materials; however, these efforts could cause us to pay higher prices for a commodity when compared with the market price at the time the commodity is actually purchased or delivered. Tariffs can also increase our costs, the impact of which is difficult to predict. However, we believe that our supply management and production practices appropriately balance the foreseeable risks and the costs of alternative practices. Nonetheless, these risks may have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We design, manufacture and service products that incorporate advanced technologies. The introduction of new products and technologies involves risks, and we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. Our future success depends on designing, developing, producing, selling and supporting innovative products that incorporate advanced technologies. The regulations applicable to our products, as well as our customers’ product and service needs, change from time to time. Moreover, regulatory changes may render our products and technologies non-compliant. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our technological advancements or product improvements – including those associated with regulatory changes – depends on a variety of factors, including: meeting development, production, and regulatory approval schedules; meeting performance plans and expectations; the availability of raw materials and parts; our suppliers’ performance; the hiring, training and deployment of qualified personnel; achieving efficiencies; identifying emerging regulatory and technological trends; validating innovative technologies; the level of customer interest in new technologies and products; and the costs and customer acceptance of our new or improved products. Our products and services also may incorporate technologies developed or manufactured by third parties, which, when combined with our technology or products, creates additional risks and uncertainties. As a result, the performance and market acceptance of these third-party products and services could affect the level of customer interest and acceptance of our own products in the marketplace. Our research and development efforts may not culminate in new technologies or timely products, or may not meet the needs of our customers as effectively as competitive offerings. Our competitors may develop competing technologies that gain market acceptance before or instead of our products. In addition, we may not be successful in anticipating or reacting to changes in the regulatory environments in which our products are sold, and the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we anticipate. We operate in a competitive environment and our profitability and competitive position depend on our ability to accurately estimate the costs and timing of providing our products and services . 15 In certain of our businesses, our contracts are typically awarded on a competitive basis. Our bids are based upon, among other factors, the cost to timely provide the products and services. To generate an acceptable return, we must accurately estimate our costs and schedule. If we fail to do so, the profitability of contracts may be materially and adversely affected – including because some of our contracts provide for liquidated damages if we do not perform on time – which could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Customers and others may take disruptive actions. From time to time customers and others may seek to become suppliers of products and services that compete with our own or pursue other strategies to disrupt our business model. For example, an affiliate of a customer in our transport refrigeration business produces refrigeration units for shipping containers that compete with our products, and another one of our transport refrigeration customers produces refrigeration units for truck trailers that compete with our refrigeration units. In addition, our customers or existing or future competitors may seek to introduce non-traditional business models or disruptive technologies and products in the industries in which we participate, resulting in increased competition and new dynamics in these industries. Labor matters may impact our business. A significant portion of our employees are represented by labor unions or works councils in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. See the section entitled "Other Matters Relating to Our Business as a Whole - Human Capital Management." We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these agreements before they expire. In addition, existing agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes. We may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to our specific business or collective bargaining agreements. Additionally, a shortage in certain work forces, such as technicians or truck drivers, may impact our business by affecting the ability to install, sell and deliver our products. Any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, productivity, results of operations and reputation. Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our results. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates can impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant decreases in the discount rate or investment losses on plan assets may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial results. See Note 13 – Employee Benefit Plans to the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on pension plans and related obligations and contingencies. We may not realize expected benefits from our cost reduction and restructuring efforts, and our profitability or our business otherwise might be adversely affected. In order to operate more efficiently and cost effectively, we have and we may from time to time to adjust employment levels, optimize our footprint and/or implement other restructuring activities. These activities are complex and may involve or require significant changes to our operations. If we do not successfully manage these activities, expected efficiencies and benefits might be delayed or not realized. Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include: unfavorable political responses and reputational harm; unforeseen delays in the implementation of the restructuring activities; additional costs; adverse effects on employee morale; the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees or work stoppages; and difficulty managing our operations during or after facility consolidations, any of which may impair our ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions, harm our business or reputation, or have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product and service quality could damage our reputation with customers and negatively impact our results. Product and service quality issues could harm customer confidence in our company and our brands. If certain of our product and service offerings do not meet applicable safety standards – which has been the case – or our customers’ expectations regarding safety or quality, we can and have experienced lost sales and increased costs and we can and have been exposed to legal, financial and reputational risks. Actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose us to 16 litigation as well as government enforcement actions, which has also occurred in certain instances. In addition, when our products fail to perform as expected, we are exposed to warranty, product liability claims, personal injury and other claims. We maintain strict quality controls and procedures. However, we cannot be certain that these controls and procedures will reveal defects in our products or their raw materials, which may not become apparent until after the products have been placed in use in the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that products will have defects, which could require a product recall or field corrective action. Product recalls and field corrective actions can be expensive to implement, and may damage our reputation, customer relationships and market share. We have conducted product recalls and field corrective actions in the past and may do so again in the future. In many jurisdictions, product liability claims are not limited to any specified amount of recovery. If any such claims or contribution requests or requirements exceed our available insurance or if there is a product recall, there could be an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, a recall or claim could require us to review our entire product portfolio to assess whether similar issues are present in other products, which could result in a significant disruption to our business and which could have a further adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There can be no assurance that we will not experience any material warranty or product liability claim losses in the future, that we will not incur significant costs to defend such claims or that we will have adequate reserves to cover any recalls, repair and replacement costs. We are subject to litigation, environmental, and other legal and compliance risks. We are subject to a variety of litigation, legal and compliance risks. These risks relate to, among other things, personal injuries, intellectual property rights, contract-related claims, taxes, environmental matters, employee health and safety, competition laws and laws governing improper business practices. If found responsible in connection with such matters, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments and other damages (in certain cases, treble damages), and experience reputational harm. As a global business, we are subject to complex laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate. Those laws and regulations may be interpreted in different ways. They may also change from time to time, as may related interpretations and other guidance. Changes in laws or regulations could result in higher expenses. Uncertainty relating to laws or regulations may also affect how we operate, structure our investments and enforce our rights. Changes in environmental and climate change related-laws could require additional investments in product designs, which may be more expensive or difficult to manufacture, qualify and sell and/or may involve additional product safety risks and could increase environmental compliance expenditures. At times we are involved in disputes with private parties over environmental issues, including litigation over the allocation of cleanup costs, alleged personal injuries and property damage. Existing and future asbestos-related claims could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Personal injury lawsuits may involve individual and purported class actions alleging that contaminants originating from our current or former products or operating facilities caused or contributed to medical conditions. Property damage lawsuits may involve claims relating to environmental damage or diminution of real estate values. Even in litigation where we believe our liability is remote, there is a risk that a negative finding or decision could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition, in particular with respect to environmental claims in regions where we have, or previously had, significant operations or where certain of our products have been manufactured and used. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Certain of our or our channel partners' customer relationships are with governmental entities and are, therefore, subject to the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws. We are also subject to antitrust, anti-collusion and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions throughout the world. Despite meaningful measures to ensure lawful conduct, which include training, audits and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always be able to prevent our employees, third-party agents or channel partners from violating the FCPA or anti-trust, anti-money laundering or other anti-corruption laws. As a result, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, as well as disgorgement. We could be required to make changes or enhancements to our compliance measures that could increase our costs, and we could be subject to other remedial actions. 17 Violations of the FCPA, antitrust, anti-money laundering or other anti-corruption or anti-collusion laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, cause reputational harm, involve significant management distraction and result in a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We also must comply with various laws and regulations relating to the export of products, services and technology from the U.S. and other countries having jurisdiction over our operations. In the U.S., these laws include, amongst others, the Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce and embargoes and sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Restrictions on the export of our products, services or technologies could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. For a description of current material legal proceedings and regulatory matters, see the section entitled "Legal Proceedings" and Note 25 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are subject to risks arising from doing business with the U.S. government. As a supplier and service provider to the U.S. government, including as a subcontractor under prime contracts with the U.S. government, we are subject to certain heightened risks, such as those associated with the Government’s rights to audit and conduct investigations and with its rights to terminate contracts for convenience or default. We are now, and in light of the current U.S. government contracting environment we will continue to be the subject of U.S. government investigations relating to our U.S. government contracts or subcontracts. Such investigations often take years to complete and could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines, treble and other damages, forfeitures, restitution or penalties, or could lead to suspension or debarment of U.S. government contracting or of export privileges. For instance, if a business unit were charged with wrongdoing in connection with a U.S. government investigation (including fraud, or violation of certain environmental or export laws), the U.S. government could suspend us from bidding on or receiving awards of new U.S. government contracts or subcontracts. If convicted or found liable, the U.S. government could fine and debar us from receiving new awards for a period generally not to exceed three years and could void any contracts found to be tainted by fraud. We also could suffer reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us, even if such allegations are later determined to be unsubstantiated. We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, and may encounter difficulties integrating acquired businesses with, or disposing of businesses from, our current operations; therefore, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions and divestitures. We seek to grow through strategic acquisitions in addition to organic growth. In the past several years, we have acquired various businesses and entered into joint venture arrangements in an effort to complement and expand our business. We expect to continue such pursuits in the future. Our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential loss contingencies of a particular transaction, including potential exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from an acquisition target’s previous activities. For example, we may incur unanticipated costs, expenses or other liabilities, or reduced sales, as a result of an acquisition’s violation of applicable laws, such as the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws outside of the U.S. We also may incur – and have incurred – unanticipated costs or expenses, including post-closing asset impairment charges and expenses associated with eliminating duplicate facilities, litigation, and other liabilities. We may encounter – and have encountered – difficulties in integrating acquired businesses with our operations, applying our internal controls to these acquired businesses, or in managing strategic investments. Additionally, we may not realize – and have sometimes not realized – the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, accounting requirements relating to business combinations, including the requirement to expense certain acquisition costs as incurred, may cause us to incur greater earnings volatility and generally lower earnings during periods in which we acquire new businesses. We also make strategic divestitures from time to time. Our divestitures may result in continued financial exposure to the divested businesses, such as through guarantees, other financial arrangements, continued supply and services arrangements or through the retention of liabilities, such as for environmental and product liability claims. Under these arrangements, nonperformance by those divested businesses or claims against retained liabilities could result in the imposition of obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations, or financial condition. The success of future acquisitions, divestitures and joint ventures will depend on the satisfaction of conditions precedent to such transactions and the timing of consummation of such transactions, which will depend in part on the ability of the parties to secure any required regulatory approvals in a timely manner, among other things. 18 We may recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and certain other intangible assets. We may recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Our other intangible assets primarily consist of trademarks. As of December 31, 2020, the net carrying value of our goodwill and certain other intangible assets totaled $10.1 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, planned or unexpected significant changes in the use of the assets, and sustained market capitalization declines may result in the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment is recognized. Failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to the capital markets. Carrier has been issued an investment grade credit rating by each of Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. ("Moody's"), Standard & Poor’s ("S&P") and Fitch Ratings Inc. ("Fitch Ratings"). Nonetheless, any future downgrades could increase our borrowing costs, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of collateral under our derivative contracts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to the capital markets. Additionally, our credit agreements generally include an increase in interest rates if the ratings for our debt are downgraded. We incurred debt obligations, and we may incur additional debt obligations in the future, which could adversely affect our business and profitability and our ability to meet other obligations. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $10.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness. See Note 12 – Borrowings and Lines of Credit in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the section entitled "Liquidity and Financial Condition" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our debt obligations could potentially have important consequences to us and our debt and equity investors, including: (1) requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to make interest payments; (2) making it more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations; (3) increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; (4) increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; (5) reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; (6) limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; (7) placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that may not be as highly leveraged with debt; and (8) limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase shares. As described in Note 12 – Borrowings and Lines of Credit in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and "Liquidity and Financial Condition" the terms of our indebtedness contain covenants restricting our financial flexibility in a number of ways, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur liens, to make certain fundamental changes and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility (defined subsequently) requires that we not exceed a maximum consolidated total leverage ratio, subject to the amendment also described in Note 12 – Borrowings and Lines of Credit. If we breach a restrictive covenant under any of our indebtedness, or an event of default occurs in respect of any of our indebtedness, our lenders may be entitled to declare all amounts owing in respect thereof to be immediately due and payable. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the foregoing risks could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to repay all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt. 19 Risks Related to the Separation from UTC We have only operated as an independent company since April 3, 2020, the effective date of the Distribution, and our historical financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results; additionally, we are a smaller, less diversified company than UTC prior to the Separation and the Distribution. The historical information about Carrier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the periods prior to April 3, 2020 refers to Carrier's businesses as operated by and integrated with UTC. Our historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from the combined financial statements and accounting records of UTC. Prior to the Separation and the Distribution, our business had been operated by UTC as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. As part of UTC, we were able to enjoy certain benefits from UTC’s operating diversity, purchasing power and opportunities to pursue integrated strategies with UTC’s other businesses. Additionally, UTC or one of its affiliates performed or helped perform various corporate functions for us, such as accounting, auditing, tax, legal, human resources, investor relations, risk management, treasury and other general and administrative functions. Accordingly, the financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the periods prior to April 3, 2020 does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company or those that we will achieve in the future. In addition, the diversification of our sales, costs and cash flows are diminished as a stand-alone company, such that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility and our ability to fund capital expenditures and investments, pay dividends and service debt may be diminished. As a stand-alone Company, we may also lose capital allocation efficiency and flexibility because we are no longer able to use cash flows from UTC or Otis to fund our investments and operations. After the Separation and the Distribution, certain members of management, directors and shareowners own stock in UTC, Carrier and Otis, and as a result may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. Following the Separation and the Distribution, certain members of management and the board of directors of each of UTC, Carrier and Otis own common stock in all three companies. This ownership overlap could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management and directors of one company face decisions that could have different implications for themselves and the other two companies. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and Carrier’s relationship with UTC and Otis thereafter. These agreements include a separation and distribution agreement, the TSA, the TMA, the employee matters agreement, the intellectual property agreement and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest may also arise out of any commercial arrangements that we or UTC may enter into in the future. See Note 1 – Description of the Business in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these agreements. We could experience temporary interruptions in business operations and incur additional costs as we further develop information technology infrastructure and transition our data to our stand-alone systems. We are in the process of finalizing development of an IT infrastructure and systems to support our critical business functions, including accounting and reporting, in order to replace many of the systems and functions UTC provided prior to the Separation and the Distribution. We may experience temporary disruption in our business operations as we continue to develop this IT infrastructure, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, our costs for the operation of these systems may be higher than the amounts reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements for the periods prior to April 3, 2020. We may not be able to engage in desirable capital-raising or strategic transactions following the Separation and the Distribution. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, a spin-off that otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment can be rendered taxable to the parent corporation and its shareowners as a result of certain post-spin-off transactions, including certain acquisitions of shares or assets of the spun-off corporation. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the Separation and the Distribution, and in addition to Carrier’s indemnity obligation described subsequently, the TMA restricts us, for the two-year period following the Distribution, except in specific circumstances, from: (1) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the 20 shares of Carrier common stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise; (2) issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds; (3) repurchasing shares of Carrier common stock other than in certain open-market transactions; and (4) ceasing to actively conduct certain of our businesses. The TMA also prohibits us from taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent the Distribution and certain related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") or for applicable non-U.S. income tax purposes. Further, the TMA imposes similar restrictions on us and our subsidiaries during the two-year period following the Distribution that are intended to prevent certain transactions undertaken as part of the internal reorganization from failing to qualify as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code or for applicable non-U.S. income tax purposes. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain equity issuances, strategic transactions, repurchases or other transactions that we may otherwise believe to be in the best interests of our shareowners or that might increase the value of our business. See Note 1 – Description of the Business in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In connection with the Separation into three independent public companies, each of UTC, Carrier and Otis has agreed to indemnify the other parties for certain liabilities. If we are required to pay UTC and/or Otis under these indemnities, our financial results could be negatively impacted. Also, the UTC or Otis indemnities may not be sufficient to hold us harmless from the full amount of liabilities for which UTC and Otis have been allocated responsibility, and UTC and/or Otis may not be able to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the Separation and the Distribution agreement and certain other agreements among UTC, Carrier and Otis, each party has agreed to indemnify the other parties for certain liabilities as discussed further in Note 1 – Description of the Business in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Indemnities that we may be required to provide UTC and/or Otis are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that UTC and/or Otis has agreed to retain. The indemnities from UTC and Otis for our benefit may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and UTC and/or Otis may not be able to fully satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. Any amounts we are required to pay pursuant to such indemnification obligations and other liabilities could require us to divert cash that would otherwise have been used in furtherance of our operating business. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from UTC or Otis, as applicable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including as a result of subsequent acquisitions of our stock or the stock of UTC, we, as well as UTC, Otis and UTC’s shareowners, could be subject to significant tax liabilities. In addition, if certain internal restructuring transactions were to fail to qualify as transactions that are generally tax-free for U.S. federal or non-U.S. income tax purposes, we, as well as UTC and Otis could be subject to significant tax liabilities. In certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify UTC for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the TMA. The Distribution was conditioned on, among other things, the receipt by UTC of an IRS ruling regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the Separation and the Distribution and an opinion of outside counsel, regarding the qualification of certain elements of the Distribution under Section 355 of the Code. The IRS ruling and the opinion of counsel were based upon and relied on, among other things, various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of UTC, Carrier and Otis, including those relating to the past and future conduct of UTC, Carrier and Otis. Notwithstanding receipt of the IRS ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine that the Distribution and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the IRS ruling or the opinion of counsel was based were inaccurate or have not been complied with. In addition, the IRS ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinion of counsel represents the judgment of such counsel and is not binding on the IRS or any court, and the IRS or a court may disagree with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by UTC of the IRS ruling and the opinion of counsel, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that the Distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including by reason of the consummation of Raytheon Company's merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary of UTC 21 shortly after the Effective Time) or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such challenge, we, as well as UTC, Otis and UTC’s shareowners, could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liability. If the Distribution were to fail to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, in general, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, UTC would recognize a taxable gain as if it had sold the Carrier common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and UTC shareowners who received Carrier common stock in the Distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. Even if the Distribution were to otherwise qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, it may result in taxable gain to UTC (but not its shareowners) under Section 355(e) of the Code if the Distribution were deemed to be part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more persons acquire, directly or indirectly, shares representing a 50% or greater interest (by vote or value) in UTC or Carrier. For this purpose, any acquisitions of UTC or Carrier common stock within the period beginning two years before the Distribution and ending two years after the Distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although UTC or Carrier may be able to rebut that presumption (including by qualifying for one or more safe harbors under applicable Treasury Regulations). In addition, as part of the Separation, and prior to the Distribution, UTC and its subsidiaries completed an internal reorganization. With respect to certain transactions undertaken as part of the internal reorganization, UTC requested and obtained tax rulings in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions and/or opinions of external tax advisors, in each case, regarding the tax treatment of such transactions. Such tax rulings and opinions were based upon and relied on, among other things, various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations (including with respect to certain valuation matters relating to the internal reorganization), statements and undertakings of UTC, Carrier, Otis or their respective subsidiaries. If any of these representations or statements were, or were to become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if UTC, Carrier, Otis or any of their respective subsidiaries did not fulfill or otherwise comply with any such undertakings or covenants, such tax rulings and/or opinions may be invalid or the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Further, notwithstanding receipt of any such tax rulings and/or opinions, there can be no assurance that the relevant taxing authorities will not assert that the tax treatment of the relevant transactions differs from the conclusions reached in the relevant tax rulings and/or opinions. In the event any such tax rulings and/or opinions or the relevant taxing authorities prevail with any challenge in respect of any relevant transaction, we, as well as UTC and Otis could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Under the TMA, Carrier is generally required to indemnify UTC and Otis for any taxes resulting from the Separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from: (1) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of Carrier, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether we participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (2) other actions or failures to act by Carrier or (3) certain of Carrier’s representations, covenants or undertakings contained in any of the separation-related agreements and documents or in any documents relating to the IRS ruling and/or the opinion of counsel being incorrect or violated. Further, under the TMA, we are generally required to indemnify UTC and Otis for a specified portion of any taxes (and any related costs and other damages) (a) arising as a result of the failure of the Distribution and certain related transactions to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free (including as a result of Section 355(e) of the Code) or a failure of any internal separation transaction that is intended to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to so qualify, in each case, to the extent such amounts did not result from a disqualifying action by, or acquisition of equity securities of, Carrier, Otis or UTC or (b) arising from an adjustment, pursuant to an audit or other tax proceeding, with respect to any separation transaction that is not intended to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free. Any such indemnity obligations could be material. See Note 1 – Description of the Business in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In connection with the Separation (including the internal reorganization described previously), UTC completed several corporate reorganization transactions involving its subsidiaries which, along with the Distribution, may be subject to various fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. If, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the Separation, any entity involved in these reorganization transactions or the Separation: (1) was insolvent, was rendered insolvent by reason of the Separation, or had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital, and (2) received less than fair consideration in exchange for the Distribution; or intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, then the court could void the Separation and the Distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. The court could then require our shareowners to return to UTC some or all of the shares of Carrier common stock issued in the Distribution, or require UTC or Carrier, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit 22 of creditors. The measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction and the applicable law. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities (including the probable amount of contingent liabilities), or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. No assurance can be given as to what standard a court would apply to determine insolvency or that a court would determine that Carrier or any of our subsidiaries were solvent at the time of or after giving effect to the Distribution. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile and the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The factors that could affect our common stock price include among others: (1) industry or general market conditions; (2) domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; (3) impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; (4) lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities; (5) changes in our customers’ preferences; (6) new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; (7) actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; (8) changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or lack of research coverage and reports by industry analysts; (9) action by institutional stockholders or other large stockholders; (10) failure to meet any guidance given by us or any change in any guidance given by us, or changes by us in our guidance practices; (11) announcements by us of significant impairment charges; (12) speculation in the press or investment community; (13) investor perception of us and our industry; (14) changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies; (15) announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions or strategic partnerships; (16) war or terrorist acts; (17) any future sales of our common stock or other securities; and (18) additions or departures of key personnel. The stock markets have experienced volatility in recent years that has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been instituted against the affected company. Any litigation of this type brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Shareowner's percentage of ownership in Carrier's common stock may be diluted in the future. The percentage ownership of shareowners in Carrier's common stock may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including any equity awards that we grant to our directors, officers and employees. Our employees have, and will receive from Carrier, stock-based awards that correspond to shares of our common stock. Such awards have had and will have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. See Note 4 – Earnings Per Share and Note 14 – Stock-Based Compensation in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Quarterly cash dividends may be discontinued or modified, are subject to a number of uncertainties and may affect the price of our common stock. Quarterly cash dividends are a component of our capital allocation strategy, which we fund with operating free cash flows, borrowings and divestitures. However, we are not required to declare dividends. Dividends may be discontinued, accelerated, suspended or delayed at any time without prior notice. Even if not discontinued, the amount of such dividends may be changed, and the amount, timing and frequency of such dividends may vary from past practice or from the company’s stated expectations. Decisions with respect to dividends are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be based on a variety of factors. Important factors that could cause us to discontinue, limit, suspend, increase or delay our quarterly cash dividends include market conditions, the price of our common stock, the nature and timing of other investment opportunities, changes in our business strategy, the terms of our financing arrangements, our outlook as to the ability to obtain financing at attractive rates, the impact on our credit ratings and the availability of domestic cash. The reduction or elimination of our cash dividend could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 23 Our amended and restated bylaws designate the state courts within the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareowners, which could discourage lawsuits against Carrier and our directors and officers. Carrier’s amended and restated bylaws provide that unless Carrier’s Board of Directors otherwise determines, the state courts within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Carrier, any action asserting a claim for or based on a breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director or officer or other employee of Carrier to Carrier or to Carrier shareowners, including a claim alleging the aiding and abetting of such a breach of fiduciary duty, any action asserting a claim against Carrier or any current or former director or officer or other employee of Carrier arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”) or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws, any action asserting a claim relating to or involving Carrier governed by the internal affairs doctrine, or any action asserting an “internal corporate claim” as that term is defined in Section 115 of the DGCL. To the fullest extent permitted by law, this exclusive forum provision applies to state and federal law claims, including claims under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), although Carrier shareowners will not be deemed to have waived Carrier’s compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies’ organizational documents has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with claims arising under federal securities laws or otherwise, a court could find the exclusive forum provision contained in the amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareowners to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareowners find favorable for disputes with Carrier or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against Carrier and our directors and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described previously, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions could enable our Board of Directors to resist a takeover attempt by a third party and limit the power of our shareowners. Carrier’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with Carrier’s Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: (1) the ability of our remaining directors to fill vacancies on Carrier’s Board of Directors (except in an instance where a director is removed by shareowners and the resulting vacancy is filled by shareowners); (2) limitations on shareowners’ ability to call a special shareowner meeting; (3) rules regarding how shareowners may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareowner meetings; and (4) the right of Carrier’s Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareowner approval. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the DGCL, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control that shareowners may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with persons that acquire, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation may not engage in a business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which that person or any of its affiliates becomes the holder of more than 15% of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock. We believe these provisions will protect our shareowners from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with Carrier’s Board of Directors and by providing Carrier’s Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make Carrier immune from takeovers; however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareowners and could delay or prevent an acquisition that Carrier’s Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of Carrier and our shareowners. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. 24 In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our common stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, causing the distribution to be taxable to UTC. Under the TMA, we are required to indemnify UTC for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our shareowners may consider favorable. General Risks Natural disasters, epidemics or other unexpected events may disrupt our operations, adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and may not be fully covered by insurance. The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, power outages or other unexpected events, including hurricanes, fires, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, floods and other forms of severe weather, health epidemics, pandemics (including COVID-19) or other contagious outbreaks, conflicts, wars or terrorist acts, in the U.S. or in other countries in which we or our suppliers or customers operate could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, power outages or other unexpected events could damage or close one or more of our facilities or disrupt our operations temporarily or long-term, such as by causing business interruptions or by affecting the availability and/or cost of materials needed for manufacturing. In some cases, we have only one factory that can manufacture a specific product or product line. As a result, damage to or the closure of that factory may disrupt or prevent us from manufacturing certain products. Existing insurance arrangements may not cover all of the costs or lost cash flows that may arise from such events. The occurrence of any of these events could also increase our insurance and other operating costs or harm our sales. We may be affected by global economic, capital market and political conditions, and conditions in the construction, transportation and infrastructure industries in particular. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be adversely affected by changes in global economic conditions and geopolitical risks and conditions, including credit market conditions, levels of consumer and business confidence, fluctuations in residential, commercial and industrial construction activity, pandemic health issues (including COVID-19 and its effects), natural disasters, commodity prices, energy costs, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, levels of government spending and deficits, trade policies (including tariffs, boycotts and sanctions), regulatory changes, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt and other challenges that could affect the global economy. These economic and political conditions affect our business in a number of ways. At this point, the extent to which COVID-19 will continue to impact the global economy remains uncertain, but pandemics or other significant public health events, or the perception that such events may occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, the tightening of credit in the capital markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers, including individual end-customers and businesses, to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, which could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products and services. Similarly, tightening credit may adversely affect our supply base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Additionally, because we have a number of factories and suppliers in foreign countries, the imposition of tariffs or sanctions or unusually restrictive border crossing rules could adversely affect our supply chain, operations and overall business. Our business and financial performance is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending and construction (both residential and commercial as well as remodeling). In addition, our financial performance may be influenced by the production and utilization of transport equipment, including truck production cycles in North America and Europe. Our business success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. Our ability to sustain and grow our business requires us to hire, retain and develop a highly skilled and diverse management team and workforce. Failure to ensure that we have leadership with the necessary skill sets and experience could impede our ability to deliver our growth objectives, execute our strategic plan and effectively transition our leadership. Additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various international jurisdictions. Changes to tax laws and regulations as well as changes and conflicts in related interpretations or other tax guidance could materially impact our tax receivables and liabilities and our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business, we are subject 25 to examinations by various tax authorities. Tax authorities in various jurisdictions could also launch new examinations and expand existing examinations. The global and diverse nature of our operations means that these risks will continue, and additional examinations, proceedings and contingencies will arise from time to time. Our competitive position, cash flows, results of operation or financial condition may be affected by the outcome of examinations, proceedings and contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. See "Business Overview" and "Results of Operations—Income Taxes" under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 3 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 – Income Taxes to the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on income taxes and related contingencies, including our provisional accounting and assessment of the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 ("TCJA"). Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could materially and adversely affect us. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations required by the SEC. In addition, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner or to otherwise comply with applicable law could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that, among other things, we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and disclosure purposes. Internal control over financial reporting is complex and may be revised over time to adapt to changes in our business, or changes in applicable accounting rules. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting until we file our first Annual Report on Form 10-K with the SEC, at which time we will be an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer; accordingly, we expect this attestation at the time we file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2021. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective in the future or that a material weakness will not be discovered with respect to a prior period for which we had previously believed that internal controls were effective. If we are not able to maintain or document effective internal controls over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting when required. Matters affecting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information on a timely basis, or may cause us to restate previously issued financial information, and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in our company and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we or our independent registered public accounting firm report a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. This could have a material and adverse effect on us by, for example, leading to a decline in the share price of our common stock and impairing our ability to raise additional capital.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

BUSINESS OVERVIEW Separation from United Technologies Corporation On April 3, 2020, UTC completed the Separation through the Distribution of all of the outstanding common stock of the Company to UTC shareowners who held shares of UTC common stock as of the close of business on March 19, 2020, the record date for the Distribution. UTC distributed 866,158,910 shares of Carrier common stock in the Distribution at the Effective Time. As a result of the Distribution, UTC shareowners of record received one share of the Company's common stock for every one share of UTC common stock and Carrier became an independent public company. Our common stock is listed under the symbol "CARR" on the NYSE. In connection with the Separation, Carrier issued an aggregate principal balance of $11.0 billion of debt and transferred approximately $10.9 billion of cash to UTC on February 27, 2020 and March 27, 2020. On April 1, 2020 and April 2, 2020, Carrier received cash contributions totaling $590 million from UTC related to the Separation. See Note 12 – Borrowings and Lines of Credit and Note 4 – Earnings Per Share in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Prior to the Separation and the Distribution, the Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company for the periods presented as historically managed within UTC. For the periods prior to the Separation and the Distribution, the Consolidated Financial Statements were derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of UTC and thus were prepared on a "carve-out" basis, as described subsequently. The Company's financial statements for the period from April 3, 2020 through December 31, 2020 are consolidated financial statements based on the reported results of Carrier as a stand-alone company. The Consolidated Financial Statements include all revenues and costs directly attributable to Carrier, including costs for facilities, functions and services used by Carrier. Prior to the Separation and the Distribution, costs for certain functions and services performed by UTC were directly charged to Carrier based on specific identification when possible or based on a reasonable allocation driver such as net sales, headcount, proportionate usage or other allocation methods. The results of operations include allocations of costs for administrative functions and services performed on behalf of Carrier by centralized groups within UTC. We entered into the TSA with UTC and Otis in connection with the Separation pursuant to which UTC provides us with certain services and we provide certain services to UTC for a limited time to help ensure an orderly transition following the Separation and the Distribution. The services we receive include, but are not limited to, information technology services, technical and engineering support, application support for operations, legal, payroll, finance, tax and accounting, general administrative services and other support services. The costs for these services historically were included in our operating results based on allocations from UTC and have not been materially different under the TSA, nor do we expect such costs to be materially different when these services are transitioned from UTC to Carrier. Subsequent to the Separation and the Distribution, we have incurred and will continue to incur expenditures consisting primarily of employee-related costs, costs to establish certain stand-alone functions and information technology systems and other transaction-related costs. Additionally, we will have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of becoming an independent, publicly traded company, primarily from establishing or expanding corporate support for our businesses, including information technology, human resources, treasury, tax, internal audit, risk management, accounting and financial reporting, investor relations, governance, legal, procurement and other services. Our estimates of these additional recurring costs expected to be incurred annually are approximately $75 million in the aggregate greater than the expenses historically allocated to us from UTC, and primarily relate to Selling, general and administrative expenses. We believe our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund these additional corporate expenses. In connection with the Separation, we entered into the TMA with UTC and Otis that governs the parties’ respective rights, responsibilities and obligations with respect to tax matters (including responsibility for taxes, entitlement to refunds, allocation of tax attributes, preparation of tax returns, control of tax contests and other tax matters). Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the TMA, Carrier generally is responsible for federal, state and foreign taxes imposed on a separate return basis upon Carrier (or any of our subsidiaries) with respect to taxable periods (or portions thereof) that ended on or prior to the date of the Distribution. The TMA provides special rules that allocate responsibility for tax liabilities arising from a failure of the 31 Separation transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment based on the reasons for such failure. The TMA also imposes restrictions on each of Carrier and Otis during the two-year period following the Distribution that are intended to prevent certain transactions from failing to qualify as transactions that are generally tax-free. See Note 1 – Description of the Business in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In connection with the Separation, we also entered into an employee matters agreement and intellectual property agreement with UTC and Otis. These agreements are not expected to have a material impact on the financial results of Carrier. Business Summary Carrier Global Corporation is a leading global provider of healthy, safe and sustainable building and cold chain solutions. Today, our portfolio includes industry-leading brands such as Carrier, Kidde, Edwards, LenelS2, Carrier Transicold and Automated Logic that offer innovative HVAC, refrigeration, fire, security and building automation technologies to help make the world safer and more comfortable. Our worldwide operations are affected by global and regional industrial, economic and political factors and trends. These factors and trends include the mega-trends of urbanization, climate change and increasing requirements for food safety driven by the food needs of our growing global population and the rising standards of living in emerging markets. We believe that the Company's HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security business segments are well positioned to benefit from favorable secular trends, including these mega-trends and from the strength of our industry-leading brands and track record of innovation. The effects of climate change, such as extreme weather conditions, create financial risks to our business. For example, the demand for our products and services, such as residential air conditioning equipment, may be affected by unseasonable weather conditions. Demand for our HVAC products and services, representing our largest segment by sales, is seasonal and affected by the weather. Cooler than normal summers depress our sales of replacement air conditioning products and services. Similarly, warmer than normal winters have the same effect on our heating products. Our business is also affected by changes in the general level of economic activity, such as changes in business and consumer spending, construction activity and shipping activity. A change in building and remodeling activity also can affect our financial performance. In addition, our financial performance may be influenced by the production and utilization of transport equipment, including truck production cycles in North America and Europe. Business Segments Our operations are organized into three segments: HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security. Our HVAC segment provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling and ventilation needs of residential and commercial customers. Our Refrigeration segment provides refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail, as well as commercial refrigeration products. Our Fire & Security segment provides a wide range of residential and commercial building systems and security and service solutions. Our customers are in both the public and private sectors, and our businesses reflect extensive geographic diversification. See Note 1 – Description of the Business and Note 26 – Segment Financial Data in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As part of our growth strategy, we invest in businesses in certain countries that carry higher levels of currency, political and/or economic risk, such as Mexico, China, Brazil, India and countries in the Middle East. As of December 31, 2020 , our net assets in any one of these countries did not exceed 11% of our consolidated equity. See Note 26 – Segment Financial Data in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of sales attributed to geographic regions. Our earnings growth strategy contemplates earnings from organic sales growth, including growth from new product development and product improvements, structural cost reductions, operational improvements and incremental earnings from acquisitions. Acquisition and restructuring costs associated with business combinations are expensed as incurred. Depending on the nature and level of acquisition activity, our earnings could be adversely impacted due to acquisition and restructuring actions initiated in connection with the integration of businesses acquired. For further discussion of acquisitions and restructuring, see Note 6 – Equity Method Investments and Related Parties, Note 10 – Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets and Note 17 – Restructuring Costs in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 32 Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic COVID-19 surfaced in late 2019 and has spread throughout the world. In March 2020, COVID-19 was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization and a national emergency by the U.S. government. The pandemic has negatively affected the U.S. and global economies, disrupted global supply chains and financial markets, resulted in significant travel restrictions, mandated facility closures, and resulted in shelter-in-place orders. Carrier has taken and continues to take all prudent measures to protect the health and safety of our employees. In particular, we have implemented work-from-home requirements (where practical), social distancing and deep cleaning protocols at all of our facilities as well as travel restrictions, among other measures. We have also taken appropriate measures, which comply with applicable government regulations and guidance to work with our customers to minimize potential disruptions and to support the communities that we serve to address the challenges posed by the pandemic. The full extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the pandemic as well as any worsening or additional outbreaks of the pandemic, related containment and mitigation actions taken by the U.S. federal, state and local and international governments to prevent disease spread and the rollout of vaccines in the U.S. and internationally, including the effectiveness of such vaccines in preventing COVID-19 and the time it takes to vaccinate a sufficient percentage of the U.S. and global populations. The extent of the pandemic's impact on Carrier will also depend upon our employees' ability to work safely in our facilities and to be granted access to vaccines (including the time it takes for our employees to be vaccinated), our customers’ ability to continue to operate or to receive our products, our suppliers' ability to continue to supply us with products and the level of activity and demand for the ultimate products and services of our customers or their customers. In early 2020, we temporarily closed or reduced production at manufacturing facilities in North America, Asia and Europe for safety reasons and in response to lower demand for our products. Our manufacturing operations have since resumed, measures have been enacted to scale capacity to demand, and we continue to actively take steps to mitigate supply chain risk. We continue to apply appropriate safety measures and have not experienced any significant disruptions to our manufacturing operations. We also initiated return-to-work protocols at our non-manufacturing facilities where employees were previously working remotely. We took preemptive actions in 2020 to preserve our liquidity and manage our cash flows to ensure we met our liquidity needs. Such actions included, but were not limited to, modifying the financial covenants in our revolving and term loan credit agreements and issuing $750 million of 2.700% Notes due 2031 (see Note 12 – Borrowings and Lines of Credit in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information), reducing our discretionary spending, our capital investments and general and administrative costs by implementing pay freezes and cuts, employee furloughs and the suspension of non-critical hiring, and participating in global COVID-19 relief measures. 33 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses. Note 3 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their potential significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain and are described subsequently. Actual results could differ from management's estimates. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Our goodwill had an aggregate carrying amount of $10.1 billion as of December 31, 2020. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of individual trademarks, which had an aggregate carrying amount of $571 million as of December 31, 2020. We test our reporting units and trademarks for impairment annually as of the first day of our third quarter, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or trademark is less than its carrying amount. Such events and circumstances could include, among other things, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections (for example, due to regulatory or industry changes), disposals of significant businesses or components of our business, unexpected business disruptions (for example, due to the loss of a customer, supplier or other significant business relationship), unexpected significant declines in operating results or significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate. We test reporting units for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. We test trademarks for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each brand with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit or trademark exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss based on the difference between fair value and carrying amount. In the case of reporting units, any impairment loss would not exceed the associated carrying amount of goodwill. We performed our annual impairment assessment of goodwill and indefinite-lived trademarks as of July 1, 2020. As part of our annual impairment testing, we considered the impact of the adverse effects of COVID-19 on the global economy and our business and performed a quantitative impairment assessment that compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its associated carrying value to determine whether it was necessary to recognize a goodwill impairment. Estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and trademarks requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic and regulatory conditions, which were updated in performing the impairment assessment. If current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change, or if management’s expectations or plans otherwise change, including as a result of the execution of our global five-year strategic plan, then one or more of our reporting units or trademarks might become impaired in the future. We utilize the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. The discounted cash flow method relies on estimates of future cash flows and explicitly addresses factors such as timing, growth and margins, with due consideration given to forecasting risk. We developed these assumptions based on the market and geographic risks unique to each reporting unit. The significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net cash flows for each reporting unit (based on projected net sales, operating margins, working capital and capital expenditures), income tax rates, long-term growth rates and a discount rate that appropriately reflects the risks inherent in estimating future cash flows. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts based on historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated growth rates and management’s plans. For all reporting units, the fair value of goodwill exceeded the carrying value, resulting in no goodwill impairment. However, for one reporting unit with goodwill of $917 million, the excess of fair value over the carrying value was approximately 13%. For this reporting unit, a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate used in the financial forecast would result in an impairment of approximately $84 million. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit would be negatively impacted if future economic conditions are worse than our financial forecast and assumptions or there are substantial reductions in our end markets and volume assumptions relative to our financial forecast. For our indefinite-lived assets, a fair value is determined on a relief from royalty methodology, which is based on the implied royalty paid, at an appropriate discount rate, to license the use of an asset rather than owning the asset. The significant assumptions inherent in estimating fair value include the estimated future annual net sales for each trademark, royalty rates (as a percentage of net sales that would hypothetically be charged by a licensor of the brand to an unrelated licensee), income tax 34 considerations, long-term growth rates, a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the future cost savings attributable to the brand, and management’s intent to invest in the brand indefinitely. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts based on historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, and estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans and guideline companies. The present value of the after-tax cost savings (i.e., royalty relief) indicates the estimated fair value of the asset. Any excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value would be recognized as an impairment loss equal to that excess. For all trade names, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) in the 2020 test was a minimum of 80%. Based upon the quantitative assessment performed, the fair value of indefinite-lived trademarks was determined to exceed the carrying value, resulting in no impairment. The estimates of fair value are based on the best information available as of the date of the assessment, which primarily incorporates management assumptions about expected future cash flows. Although these assets are not currently impaired, there can be no assurance that future impairments will not occur. See Note 10 – Business Acquisitions, Dispositions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Revenue Recognition from Contracts with Customers Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU 2014-09 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers and its related amendments ("New Revenue Standard") and elected the modified retrospective approach. The adoption of the New Revenue Standard did not have a material impact on revenue, net income or net assets. Note 5 – Revenue Recognition in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements contains further detail regarding the adoption of the New Revenue Standard and its impact on the consolidated financial statements as of, and for, the year ended December 31, 2018. We recognize revenue on an over-time basis on installation and service contracts related to our HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security service businesses. For contracts recorded on an over-time basis, we measure progress toward completion using costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion. This over-time basis using an input method requires estimates of future revenues and costs over the full term of product and/or service delivery. Incurred costs represent work performed, which correspond with and best depict transfer of control to the customer. Contract costs are incurred over a period of time, which can generally range from several months to years, and the estimation of these costs requires management’s judgment. We review our cost estimates on significant contracts on a quarterly basis and, for others, at least annually or when circumstances change and warrant a modification to a previous estimate. We record changes in contract estimates using the cumulative catch-up method. We consider the contractual consideration payable by the customer and assess variable consideration that may affect the total transaction price, including contractual discounts, contract incentive payments, estimates of award fees and other sources of variable consideration, when determining the transaction price of each contract. Variable consideration is included in the estimated transaction price when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the amount. These estimates are based on historical experience, anticipated performance and management's judgment. We also consider whether the contracts provide customers with significant financing, although in general our contracts do not contain significant financing. Income Taxes The future tax benefit arising from deductible temporary differences and tax carryforwards was $838 million and $923 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Management believes that our earnings during the periods when the temporary differences become deductible will be sufficient to realize the related future income tax benefits, which may be realized over an extended period of time. For those jurisdictions where the expiration date of tax carryforwards or the projected operating results indicate that realization is not likely, a valuation allowance is provided. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we estimate future taxable income, considering the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies and the realizability of tax loss carryforwards. Valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets can be affected by changes in tax laws, changes to statutory tax rates and future taxable income levels. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or a portion of our deferred tax assets in the future, we would reduce such amounts through an increase to tax expense in the period in which that determination is made or when tax law changes are enacted. Conversely, if we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net carrying amounts, we would decrease a recorded valuation allowance through a decrease to tax expense in the period in which that determination is made. 35 In the ordinary course of business there is inherent uncertainty in quantifying our income tax positions. We assess our income tax positions and record tax benefits for all years subject to examination based upon management’s evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, we have recorded the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 3 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 19 – Income Taxes in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Employee Benefit Plans We sponsor domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans. The major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, rate of increase in employee compensation levels and mortality rates. Assumptions are determined based on company data and appropriate market indicators and are evaluated each year as of December 31. A change in any of these assumptions would have an effect on net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit costs reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes the sensitivity of our pension plan liabilities and net periodic cost to a 25 basis point change in the discount rates for benefit obligations, interest cost and service cost as of December 31, 2020: A 25 basis point change in the discount rate would not have a material impact on our post-retirement benefit plan obligations as of December 31, 2020. These estimates assume no change in the shape or steepness of the company-specific yield curve used to plot the individual spot rates that will be applied to the future cash outflows for future benefit payments in order to calculate interest and service cost. A flattening of the yield curve, from a narrowing of the spread between interest and obligation discount rates, would increase our net periodic pension cost. Conversely, a steepening of the yield curve, from an increase in the spread between interest and obligation discount rates, would decrease our net periodic pension cost. Pension expense is also sensitive to changes in the expected return on plan assets. An increase or decrease of 25 basis points in the expected return on plan assets would have decreased or increased 2020 pension expense by approximately $7 million. The weighted-average discount rates used to measure pension liabilities and costs utilize each plan’s specific cash flows and are then compared with high-quality bond indices for reasonableness. For our significant plans, we utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of the service cost and interest cost components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Global market interest rates decreased during 2020 compared with 2019, and as a result, the weighted-average discount rate used to measure pension liabilities decreased from 2.0% in 2019 to 1.4% during 2020. The weighted-average discount rates used to measure service cost and interest cost were 1.8% and 1.8%, respectively, during 2020 and 3.2% and 2.7%, respectively in 2019. See Note 13 – Employee Benefit Plans in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Contingent Liabilities As described in Note 25 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, contractual, regulatory and other matters, including asbestos claims, may arise in the ordinary course of business that subject us to claims or litigation. We have recorded reserves in the consolidated financial statements related to these matters, which are developed using input derived from actuarial estimates and historical and anticipated experience depending on the nature of the reserve, and in certain instances in consultation with legal counsel, internal and external 36 consultants and engineers. Subject to the uncertainties inherent in estimating future costs for these types of liabilities, we believe our estimated reserves are reasonable and do not believe the final determination of the liabilities with respect to these matters would have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. See the "Risk Factors" section in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to environmental regulation by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over our foreign operations. As a result, we have established, and periodically update, policies relating to environmental standards of performance for our operations worldwide. We believe that expenditures necessary to comply with the current regulations governing environmental protection will not have a material adverse effect upon our competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. At the commencement of 2020, we identified 85 locations with reserves for which we may have some liability for remediating contamination. However, a few of these locations tracked several claims as a group which we are now tracking as 95 separate locations. Additionally, we added two new locations to our remediation program for the year ended December 31, 2020, resulting in 97 locations with reserves as of December 31, 2020. We do not believe that any individual location's exposure will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sites in the investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance stage represent approximately 85% of our accrued environmental remediation reserve, while the remaining 15% reflects administrative costs such as legal fees, permits, settlements and municipal fees. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability ACT ("Superfund") at 18 sites. The number of Superfund sites, in and of itself, does not represent a relevant measure of liability because the nature and extent of environmental concerns vary from site to site and our share of responsibility varies from sole responsibility to very little responsibility. In estimating our liability for remediation, we consider our likely proportionate share of the anticipated remediation expense and the ability of other potentially responsible parties to fulfill their obligations. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the outstanding liability for environmental obligations was $239 million and $217 million, respectively. See Note 25 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. Asbestos Matters The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities are based on currently available information and assumptions that we believe are reasonable and are made with input from outside actuarial experts. The estimated range of total liabilities to resolve all pending and unasserted potential future asbestos claims through 2059 is approximately $245 million to $276 million. Where no amount within a range of estimates is more likely, the minimum is accrued. We have recorded the minimum amount of $245 million, which is principally recorded in Other long-term liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020. This amount is not discounted and excludes the Company’s legal fees to defend the asbestos claims, which will continue to be expensed by the Company as incurred. In addition, the Company has an insurance recovery receivable for probable asbestos related recoveries of approximately $103 million, which is included primarily in Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020. See "Legal Proceedings" for further discussion of the estimated liabilities and insurance recoveries. See Note 25 – Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and their effect on us. 37 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company's financial statements for the periods prior to the Separation and the Distribution are prepared on a "carve-out" basis as described in Note 2 – Basis of Presentation . The Company's financial statements for the period from April 3, 2020 through December 31, 2020 are consolidated financial statements based on the reported results of Carrier as a stand-alone company. The following represents our consolidated net sales and operating results (dollars in millions): Net Sales The factors contributing to the total percentage change year-over-year in total net sales are as follows: 38 The 6% organic sales decrease for the year ended December 31, 2020 reflects lower sales volumes across all of the segments driven by the economic slowdown attributed to COVID-19 throughout 2020. The organic sales decrease in HVAC of 2% reflects declines in commercial HVAC and light commercial HVAC that were largely driven by the economic slowdown related to COVID-19, partially offset by increases in North America residential HVAC. The increase in North America residential HVAC sales was driven by new housing starts in addition to higher demand for replacement units due to increased usage attributed to a warmer than normal summer and remote work and school activities associated with COVID-19. The organic sales decrease of 12% in Refrigeration was driven by declines in commercial refrigeration that were primarily due to lower demand and the closure of new equipment installation sites because of COVID-19, in transport refrigeration in Europe and North America due to economic slowdowns related to COVID-19 and lower truck trailer sales volume in North America when compared with the cyclical peak experienced in 2019. Fire & Security sales decreased 9% organically reflecting lower product and field service sales. The decline in product sales was primarily driven by lower volume in North America and EMEA due to COVID-19. Field service sales were down primarily in Europe and Asia reflecting the impact of business shutdowns and project delays as a result of COVID-19. For additional discussion on the segment results for 2020, see the section entitled "Segment Review." The organic sales increase of 1% for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by growth in HVAC (1%) and in Fire & Security (1%), partially offset by declines in Refrigeration (1%). HVAC organic sales growth was driven by stronger sales in North America residential HVAC and by growth in commercial HVAC in Asia and the Americas. Organic sales growth in Fire & Security was driven by stronger product sales globally, as well as field service growth primarily within Asia. The decline in Refrigeration was driven by transport refrigeration, primarily the container business, partially offset by growth in North America Truck Trailer as well as a decline in commercial refrigeration, primarily in Europe. The divestiture related sales decrease in 2019 was due to the sale of Taylor in 2018, which was part of Refrigeration. Cost of Products and Services Sold The factors contributing to the percentage change year-over-year in total cost of products and services sold are as follows: The 6% organic decrease in the cost of products and services sold for the year ended December 31, 2020 is consistent with the 6% organic sales decrease largely attributed to the economic slowdown related to COVID-19. The decrease in total cost of products and services sold for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by favorable foreign currency translation and net acquisition and divestiture activity, which more than offset increases from organic sales growth, higher tariffs and unfavorable commodity prices. Gross Margin The 20 basis point increase in gross margin as a percentage of sales for 2020 reflects the benefit from favorable material productivity, partially offset by the effects of lower sales volumes largely as a result of the economic slowdown resulting from COVID-19. 39 Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased 30 basis points for the year ended December 31, 2019 as the favorable impact of pricing and productivity net of unfavorable commodity prices and tariffs was more than offset by unfavorable mix, the absence of a favorable prior year contract adjustment related to a large commercial project and the unfavorable year-over-year impact resulting from the revaluation of certain long-term liabilities. Selling, General and Administrative The $59 million increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily attributed to a year-over-year increase of $75 million in one-time Separation related costs, $75 million in costs associated with Carrier's transition to an independent publicly traded company and other costs. Increased Separation and public company costs were partially offset by cost containment initiatives implemented to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, which included furloughs, temporary pay freezes and pay cuts and reductions in discretionary spending, lower restructuring costs of $61 million, the absence of a $34 million charge incurred in 2019 related to the impact of a consultant contract termination and lower costs associated with the wind-down of a residential intrusion business of $21 million. As a percentage of sales, the 140 basis point increase was primarily driven by lower sales as a result of COVID-19. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $72 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily driven by $53 million of costs related to the Separation, and a consultant contract termination fee of $34 million, neither of which were incurred in 2018, partially offset by lower year-over-year corporate allocations from UTC. We are continuously evaluating our cost structure and have implemented restructuring actions to keep our cost structure competitive. The amounts reflected previously include the impact of restructuring actions on Selling, general and administrative expenses. For further discussion, see Note 17 – Restructuring Costs in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity Method Investment Net Earnings Investments over which we do not exercise control, but have significant influence, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Equity method investment net earnings decreased $29 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lower earnings from our investments in HVAC joint ventures in Asia and the Middle East, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 and the adverse impact of a product performance matter at one of our HVAC joint ventures. In 2020, we sold our equity ownership in Beijer for $1.4 billion and recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $1.1 billion. Following the sale, Carrier no longer has equity ownership in Beijer. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Carrier recognized $27 million of equity method investment net earnings related to our equity ownership in Beijer. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated equity method investments increased by $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to stronger earnings from our HVAC equity method investments in Europe and Asia. See Note 6 – Equity Method Investments and Related Parties in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net 40 Other income (expense), net primarily includes the impact of gains and losses related to sale of ownership in our equity method investments or infrequently occurring items. The year-over-year change of $1.0 billion for 2020, is primarily attributed to a $1.1 billion gain on the sale of our equity ownership in Beijer. The favorable $37 million year-over-year impact related to other-than-temporary impairment charges of $71 million in 2020 and $108 million in 2019 was offset by the absence of gains on the sale of equity method investments and real property of $79 million and $19 million in charges related to litigation matters in 2020. The year-over-year decrease of $939 million in Other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by the absence of a prior year gain of $799 million from the divestiture of Taylor, as well as the 2019 impairment of an equity method investment of $108 million. Interest (Expense) Income, Net Prior to the Separation and the Distribution, interest income and interest expense related primarily to interest on related party activity between Carrier and UTC. See "Liquidity and Financial Condition" and Note 6 – Equity Method Investments and Related Parties in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Interest (expense) income, net reflects $315 million higher year-over-year interest expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with 2019 due to the issuance of $9.25 billion of long-term fixed rate notes in February 2020, a $1.75 billion draw on our Term Loan Credit Facility (defined subsequently) in March 2020, the issuance of $750 million of long-term fixed rate notes in June 2020, and a decrease in interest income earned on related party receivables due from UTC. In the three months ended December 31, 2020, Carrier prepaid the $1.75 billion Term Loan Credit Facility for which $26 million of interest expense was recognized in the year ended December 31, 2020. See Note 12 – Borrowings and Lines of Credit in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Interest (expense) income, net decreased for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared with 2018, which primarily reflects changes in interest earned on related party receivables due from UTC. Income Taxes The increase in the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the prior year is primarily due to the absence of a prior year combined tax benefit of $149 million resulting from the filing by a Carrier subsidiary to participate in an amnesty program offered by the Italian Tax Authority and the conclusion of an audit by the IRS for UTC tax years 2014, 2015 and 2016. In addition, the following tax costs were recorded for the year ended December 31, 2020: a $51 million adjustment related to a valuation allowance recorded against a United Kingdom tax loss and credit carry forward resulting from separation-related activities and an adjustment of $46 million resulting from Carrier's decision to no longer permanently reinvest certain pre-2018 unremitted non-U.S. earnings. The 2019 effective tax rate reflects a net tax benefit of $149 million as a result of the filing by a subsidiary of Carrier to participate in an amnesty program offered by the Italian Tax Authority and the conclusion of the audit by the Examination Division of the IRS for the UTC 2014, 2015 and 2016 tax years. The 2018 effective tax rate reflects a net tax charge of $102 million as a result of UTC ceasing to assert that it intended to reinvest certain undistributed earnings of its international subsidiaries. The effective income tax rate for 2018 also reflects the incremental tax cost associated with the divestiture of Taylor. 41 For further discussion of income taxes and the effective income tax rate, see "Critical Accounting Estimates — Income Taxes" and Note 19 – Income Taxes in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Segment Review We determine our segments based on how our Chief Executive Officer, who is our Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM"), allocates resources, assesses performance and makes operational decisions. The CODM allocates resources and evaluates the financial performance of each of our segments, HVAC, Refrigeration and Fire & Security, based on net sales and operating profit. Adjustments to reconcile segment reporting to the consolidated results for 2020 and 2019 are included in the section entitled "Eliminations and other and General corporate expenses." Summary performance for each of our segments is as follows: HVAC Our HVAC segment provides products, controls, services and solutions to meet the heating and cooling needs of residential and commercial customers, while enhancing building performance, energy efficiency and sustainability. Our established brands include Automated Logic, BluEdge, Bryant, Carrier, CIAT, Day & Night, Heil, NORESCO, Riello and Tempstar. Products include air conditioners, heating systems, controls and aftermarket components, as well as aftermarket repair and maintenance services and building automation solutions. Some of these products are part of Carrier's Healthy Buildings Program, which offers a suite of targeted solutions focused on improving indoor air quality in buildings and homes. HVAC products and solutions are sold directly, including to building contractors and owners, and indirectly through joint ventures, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers, dealers and retail outlets, and through direct sales offices which sell, in part, to mechanical contractors. 2020 Compared with 2019 42 The organic sales decrease of 2% reflects declines in North America light commercial HVAC (15%) and commercial HVAC (9%) largely driven by the economic slowdown resulting from COVID-19, partially offset by increases in North America residential HVAC (10%). Commercial HVAC sales declined globally except in China, which saw an increase. The residential HVAC sales increase was driven by new housing starts in addition to higher demand for replacement units attributed to increased usage as a result of a warmer than normal summer, and remote work and school activity resulting from COVID-19. The operational profit decrease of 15% was primarily attributed to lower sales volumes and unfavorable mix and increased selling, general and administrative costs, including higher costs associated with Carrier’s transition to an independent publicly traded company partially offset by favorable net material productivity. The increase in Other of 71% primarily reflects a $1.1 billion gain on the sale of the Company's equity ownership in Beijer, partially offset by a $108 million impairment charge related to a minority-owned joint venture investment in 2019. 2019 Compared with 2018 The organic sales increase of 1% primarily reflects stronger North America residential HVAC sales (2%), in addition to growth for commercial HVAC offerings in Asia (3%) and the Americas (2%), partially offset by declines in EMEA (9%). Organic operational profit was flat due to favorable pricing offset by unfavorable mix. The 6% decrease in Other primarily reflects a $108 million impairment charge related to a minority-owned joint venture investment in 2019. Refrigeration Our Refrigeration segment includes transport refrigeration and monitoring systems for trucks, trailers, shipping containers, intermodal and rail, as well as commercial refrigeration products. Transport refrigeration products and cold chain monitoring solutions, which are part of Carrier's Healthy, Safe, Sustainable Cold Chain Program, are used to enable the safe and reliable transport of food and beverages, medical supplies, including vaccines and other perishable cargo. Commercial refrigeration solutions include refrigerated cabinets, freezers, systems and controls. Our commercial refrigeration equipment solutions incorporate next-generation technologies to preserve freshness, ensure safety and enhance the appearance of food and beverage retail. Our Refrigeration products and services are sold under established brand names, including Carrier Commercial Refrigeration, Carrier Transicold and Sensitech. Refrigeration products and services are sold directly, including to transportation companies and retail stores, and indirectly through equity method investees, independent sales representatives, distributors, wholesalers and dealers. 43 2020 Compared with 2019 The organic sales decrease of 12% was driven by declines in transport refrigeration (14%) and commercial refrigeration (9%). The decline in transport refrigeration sales reflects lower sales volume in North America when compared with the cyclical peak experienced in 2019 and the economic slowdown resulting from COVID-19, and Europe truck trailer sales volume decreased due to COVID-19. Commercial refrigeration sales declined primarily due to lower demand and the closure of new equipment installation sites resulting from COVID-19. The operational profit decrease of 29% was primarily attributed to lower sales volumes and unfavorable mix, increased selling, general and administrative costs, including higher costs associated with Carrier's transition to an independent publicly traded company, partially offset by favorable net material productivity. The 5% decrease in Other primarily reflects the year-over-year impact of the absence of a $22 million gain on an expropriated plant in 2019. 2019 Compared with 2018 The organic sales decrease of 1% was driven by declines in transport refrigeration sales (1%), primarily in the container business (9%) and declines in commercial refrigeration (1%), primarily in Europe, partially offset by growth in North America truck trailer (5%). Organic operational profit was flat on lower sales due to favorable pricing. The 58% decrease in Other primarily reflects the year-over-year impact of the absence of the prior year gain from the divestiture of Taylor. 44 Fire & Security Our Fire & Security segment provides a wide range of residential, commercial and industrial technologies, and systems and service solutions to protect people and property, including fire, flame, gas, smoke and carbon monoxide detection; portable fire extinguishers; fire suppression systems; intruder alarms; access control systems and video management systems and electronic controls. Other Fire & Security service offerings include audit, design, installation and system integration, as well as aftermarket, maintenance and repair and monitoring services. Our established brands include Autronica, Chubb, Det-Tronics, Edwards, Fireye, GST, Kidde, LenelS2, Marioff, Onity and Supra. Our Fire & Security products and solutions, also part of Carrier's Healthy Homes and Healthy Buildings Program, are sold directly to end customers as well as through manufacturers’ representatives, distributors, dealers, value-added resellers and retail distribution. In addition, certain of our products are supported by installation, maintenance and monitoring through a network of channel partners and our field service business, along with web-based mobile applications and cloud-based services. 2020 Compared with 2019 The organic sales decrease of 9% reflects lower product (10%) and field service (9%) sales. The decline in product sales was primarily driven by lower volume in North America and EMEA resulting from COVID-19. Field service sales were down primarily in Europe and Asia reflecting the impact of business shutdowns and project delays resulting from COVID-19. The operational profit decrease of 22% was primarily attributed to lower sales volumes and higher provisions for customer credit losses partially offset by favorable material productivity. 2019 Compared with 2018 The organic sales increase of 1% was driven primarily by global growth in product sales (1%) and growth in field service (1%), primarily in Asia (5%). The organic operational profit decrease of 2% was driven by unfavorable mix and investments in research and development. 45 The 2% increase in Other primarily reflects the absence of the prior year impact associated with a product recall matter. Eliminations and other and General corporate expenses 2020 Compared with 2019 Eliminations and other reflects the elimination of sales, other income and operating profit resulting from activity between segments, net hedging and foreign exchange-related gains and losses, as well as other infrequently occurring items, such as divestiture transaction costs. In addition, Eliminations and other includes costs associated with the settlement and defense of potential future asbestos-related claims, insurance settlements on asbestos-related matters and revisions in the estimated liability for potential future asbestos-related claims. Inter-segment sales eliminations decreased for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with 2019 . For the year ended December 31, 2020, the $28 million year-over-year decrease in operating profit in Eliminations and other, compared with 2019, was primarily attributed to $54 million in incremental separation-related costs and higher deferred compensation charges of $16 million partially offset by the absence of a $34 million charge incurred in 2019 related to the impact of a consultant contract termination. General corporate expenses include allocations of corporate expenses from UTC prior to the Separation and the Distribution, which are not necessarily indicative of our future expenses and do not necessarily reflect the results that Carrier may experience as an independent company for the periods presented. 2019 Compared with 2018 The year-over-year decrease in sales eliminations for the year ended December 31, 2019 as compared with 2018 reflects a decrease in the amount of inter-segment eliminations. The year-over-year change in operating profit within Eliminations and other for the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily due to separation-related costs of $58 million, a $34 million charge related to the impact of a consultant contract termination and lower asbestos-related settlement gains of $31 million, partially offset by the absence of $15 million of divestiture transaction costs in 2018. The year-over-year change in General corporate expenses for the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily driven by higher general and administrative expenses. 46 LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION ______________________ Not measurable ("NM") - Prior to the Separation and the Distribution, Carrier participated in UTC's centralized cash management and financing programs; as such, these metrics are neither meaningful nor comparable to those of Carrier as a stand-alone company. See Note 6 – Equity Method Investments and Related Parties in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the UTC cash management programs. Prior to the Separation and the Distribution, Carrier participated in UTC’s centralized cash pooling and financing programs. Historically, we independently generated operating cash flows sufficient to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and financing needs. Following the Separation and the Distribution, the capital structure and sources of liquidity for Carrier changed as Carrier no longer participates in cash management and financing programs with UTC. Instead, Carrier’s ability to fund our capital requirements depends on our ability to generate cash flows from operations. F ollowing the Separation and the Distribution, Carrier has access to a $2.0 billion Revolving Credit Facility (defined subsequently) that supports a commercial paper borrowing program and anticipates continuing to have access to the debt capital markets. We believe that our future operating cash flows and anticipated access to capital will provide sufficient sources of liquidity over the next twelve months to meet our commitments, including the negative impact of COVID-19 on our business. From time to time we may need to access the capital markets to obtain financing. Although we believe that the arrangements currently in place permit us to finance our operations on acceptable terms and conditions, our access to, and the availability of, financing on acceptable terms and conditions in the future will be impacted by many factors, including (1) our credit ratings or absence of credit ratings, (2) the liquidity of the overall capital markets and (3) the state of the economy, including the impact of COVID-19. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. Financing for operational and strategic requirements, not satisfied by operating cash flows, is subject to the availability of external funds through short-term and long-term credit markets. The access to and cost of financing is dependent upon, among other factors, the Company's credit ratings. The following table presents our credit ratings and outlook as of December 31, 2020 . (1 ) The long-term rating for S&P was affirmed on June 15, 2020, and for Moody's on June 16, 2020. Fitch Ratings' long-term rating was issued on June 11, 2020. (2) S&P revised its outlook to negative from stable on June 15, 2020. As of December 31, 2020 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $3.1 billion, of which approximately 33% was held by Carrier’s foreign subsidiaries. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by reviewing available funds and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed if held by foreign subsidiaries. On occasion, we are required to maintain cash deposits in connection with contractual obligations related to acquisitions or divestitures or other legal obligations. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the amount of such restricted cash was approximately $4 million and $5 million, respectively. 47 Borrowings and Lines of Credit Long-term debt consisted of the following: On February 10, 2020, Carrier entered into a revolving credit agreement with various banks permitting aggregate borrowings of up to $2.0 billion pursuant to an unsecured, unsubordinated Revolving Credit Facility that matures on April 3, 2025 as amended, (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). A commitment fee of 0.125% is charged on the unused commitments. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros and Pounds Sterling and bear interest at a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a ratings-based margin, which was 125 basis points as of December 31, 2020. The Revolving Credit Facility supports our commercial paper program and cash requirements. As of December 31, 2020, there were no borrowings on the Revolving Credit Facility. On February 10, 2020 , Carrier entered into a term loan credit agreement providing for a $1.75 billion unsecured, unsubordinated term loan credit facility which matures on February 10, 2023 (as amended, the "Term Loan Credit Facility"). On March 27, 2020, Carrier drew the full $1.75 billion available, and in the three months ended December 31, 2020, we fully prepaid the $1.75 billion outstanding under the Term Loan Credit Facility. The Term Loan Credit Facility was subject to a variable interest rate based on LIBOR plus a ratings-based margin, which immediately prior to the repayment date in the three months ended December 31, 2020 was 112.5 basis points. In connection with the full prepayment of the Term Loan Credit Facility, the term loan credit agreement was terminated. On February 27, 2020, Carrier issued $9.25 billion of unsecured, unsubordinated long-term fixed rate notes in six series with maturities ranging from 2023 through 2050. Carrier used the proceeds from such long-term fixed rate notes and the Term Loan Credit Facility to fund approximately $10.9 billion in distributions to UTC in connection with the Separation. The revolving credit agreement and indenture contain affirmative and negative covenants customary for financings of this type, that among other things, limit Carrier and our subsidiaries' ability to incur additional liens, to make certain fundamental changes and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions. On June 2, 2020, the Company entered into an amendment of the Revolving Credit Facility. Pursuant to the amendment, certain terms of the Revolving Credit Facility were amended for a period beginning on June 2, 2020 and ending on December 30, 2021 (the "Covenant Modification Period"). The Company may terminate the Covenant Modification Period prior to December 30, 2021, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. The amendment defers testing of our consolidated total net leverage ratio financial covenant until June 30, 2021 and increases the consolidated total net leverage ratio limit until December 31, 2021. The amendment also requires us to maintain liquidity at a certain level until the earlier of (1) June 29, 2021 and (2) the last day of the Covenant Modification Period. Additionally, during the Covenant Modification Period, the Company is subject to (a) limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary indebtedness, (b) limitations on the making of restricted payments, including purchases by the Company of our ordinary shares and the amount of dividends the Company may pay, and (c) a "most favored nations" provision related to certain terms of any committed credit facility in an amount greater than $100 million. As of December 31, 2020, we were compliant with all covenants under the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness. 48 On June 19, 2020, Carrier issued $750 million of unsecured, unsubordinated 2.700% Notes due in 2031. These notes rank equally with our other unsecured, unsubordinated obligations. We used the net proceeds from the sale of such notes, which further enhanced our liquidity and financial flexibility during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2020, we have a $2.0 billion unsecured, unsubordinated commercial paper program which we plan to use for general corporate purposes, including the funding of working capital and potential acquisitions. As of December 31, 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper program. Interest payments related to indebtedness are expected to approximate $291 million per year, reflecting an approximate weighted-average interest rate of 2.8%. Share Repurchase Program On February 4, 2021 the Company’s Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $350 million of the Company’s outstanding common stock. Share repurchases may take place from time to time, subject to market conditions and at the Company’s discretion in the open market or through one or more other public or private transactions. Other The funded status of our defined benefit pension plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets, the level of market interest rates and actuarial mortality and other assumptions. We can contribute cash subject to applicable regulations. As of December 31, 2020, our qualified domestic defined benefit pension plans are approximately 109% funded on a projected benefit obligation basis, and we are not required to make additional contributions through the end of 2022. We expect to make total contributions of approximately $28 million to our global defined benefit pension plans in 2021. Contributions to our global defined benefit pension plans in 2021 are expected to meet or exceed the current funding requirements. Cash Flows Cash Flows - 2020 Compared with 2019 Cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019. The $371 million year-over-year decrease in cash provided by operating activities was attributed to lower net income from operations, net of non-cash adjustments, partially offset by $446 million in cash provided from working capital due to the timing of vendor payments and income taxes. Net cash provided by investing activities increased $1.4 billion in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019 due to the receipt of $1.4 billion from the sale of our equity ownership in Beijer. Net cash used in financing activities decreased $1.3 billion in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019. Net transfers to UTC increased $8.4 billion due to the Separation and were funded by the issuance of $11.0 billion in long-term debt of which the $1.75 billion Term Loan Credit Facility was prepaid in the three months ended December 31, 2020. On June 19, 2020 Carrier issued $750 million in Notes due 2031 to enhance financial flexibility during COVID-19. 49 Cash Flows - 2019 Compared with 2018 Cash provided by operating activities was $2.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019 which was consistent with the $2.1 billion provided by operating activities in the year ended December 31, 2018. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $674 million in the year ended December 31, 2019 compared with the year ended December 31, 2018 due to the absence of $1.0 billion in proceeds received from the 2018 sale of Taylor, partially offset by a $310 million decrease in cash outflows for acquisitions. Prior to the Separation our financing activities primarily related to net transfers to UTC. Net cash used in financing activities decreased $645 million in the year ended December 31, 2019 compared with the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily due to a decrease in net transfers to UTC. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We extend a variety of financial guarantees to third parties in support of our business. We also have obligations arising from environmental, health and safety, tax and employment matters. Circumstances that could cause the contingent obligations and liabilities arising from these arrangements to come to fruition include changes in an underlying transaction, non-performance under a contract or deterioration in the financial condition of the guaranteed party. A summary of our contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2020 is as follows: Operating leases include amounts related to future contractual payments on our leases for land and buildings, vehicles and machinery and equipment. Purchase obligations include amounts committed for the purchase of goods and services under legally enforceable contracts or purchase orders. Where it is not practically feasible to determine the legally enforceable portion of our obligation under certain of our long-term purchase agreements, we include additional expected purchase obligations beyond what may be legally enforceable. Long-term debt includes current maturities, financing leases and obligations under project financing arrangements. See Note 12 – Borrowings and Lines of Credit in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other long-term liabilities include liabilities representing obligations under product service and warranty policies, estimated environmental remediation costs and expected contributions and liabilities under employee benefit programs. The timing of expected cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management’s estimates over the terms of these agreements and is largely based upon historical experience. Obligations to UTC under the TMA include Carrier’s obligations to pay $453 million to UTC resulting from the TCJA's mandatory transition tax attributable to Carrier. This amount will be settled with UTC in five future payments, the next of which is scheduled in April 2022. See Note 19 - Income Taxes in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 50 The previous table excludes the following: • Unrecognized tax benefits of $162 million that have not been recognized in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. It is uncertain if or when these previously claimed tax benefits could become payable if challenged by a taxing authority. See Note 19 – Income Taxes in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits. • The Company is self-insured for workers' compensation, general liability and group healthcare benefits. The Company's self-insurance reserve totaled $249 million and $239 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Self-insurance liabilities are based on estimates and actuarial assumptions. The amount and timing of payments can fluctuate and for this reason, they are not included in the previous table. • The Company's obligations under defined pension plans are based on estimates and actuarial assumptions that can fluctuate in amount and timing and for this reason, only contributions expected in 2021 are included in the previous table.