********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following discussion of material factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in the company’s securities risky and provide important information for the understanding of the “forward-looking” statements discussed in this Form 10-K and elsewhere. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with other information in this Form 10-K. The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that the company faces; operations could also be affected by factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to the company or that the company currently does not consider to present material risks to its operations. In addition to the risk factors below, additional or unforeseen effects from our substantial debt balance incurred during the pause of our guest cruise operations could give rise to or amplify many of the risks discussed below. Some of the statements in this item and elsewhere in this document are “forward-looking statements.” For a discussion of those statements and of other factors to consider see the “Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results” section. The ordering and lettering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect any company indication of priority or likelihood. Operational Risk Factors a. Events and conditions around the world, including geopolitical uncertainty, war and other military actions, inflation, higher fuel prices, higher interest rates and other general concerns impacting the ability or desire of people to travel have led, and may in the future lead, to a decline in demand for cruises as well as negative impacts to our operating costs and profitability. We have been, and may continue to be, impacted by the public’s concerns regarding the health, safety and security of travel, including government travel advisories and travel restrictions, political instability and civil unrest, terrorist attacks, war and military action and other general concerns. The resulting impacts of these events, including supply chain disruptions, increased fuel prices, impact on demand for cruises to neighboring regions and international sanctions and other measures that have been imposed, have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business. These factors may also have the effect of heightening many other risks to our business, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, we have been, and may continue to be, impacted by heightened regulations around customs and border control, travel bans to and from certain geographical areas, voluntary changes to our itineraries in light of geopolitical events, government policies increasing the difficulty of travel and limitations on issuing international travel visas. We may be impacted by adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, such as inflation, global or regional recessions, higher unemployment and underemployment rates and declines in income levels. b. Pandemics have in the past and may in the future have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and operations. Pandemics have in the past and may in the future have a significant negative impact on our financial condition and operations. We could: • be forced to re-implement a pause of our guest cruise operations • be negatively impacted by travel advisories, restrictions, recommendations and regulations set by various governmental authorities, which could impact our occupancy levels • be subject to enhanced health and hygiene requirements in attempts to counteract future outbreaks, and these requirements may be costly, take a significant amount of time to implement across our global cruise operations and may result in disruptions in guest cruise operations, incremental costs and loss of revenue • be subject to negative publicity, along with the cruise industry, which could have a long-term impact on the appeal of our cruises • be subject to lawsuits, other governmental investigations and other actions • be required to reassess our ship deployment options and our fleet, which could lead to the removal of additional ships from our fleet and may result in incremental ship impairment charges and losses on ship sales • be negatively impacted as a result of the adverse impact on our partners, counterparties and joint ventures • be negatively impacted by the inability to attract and retain the loyalty of our guests and hire and retain our crew c. Incidents concerning our ships, guests or the cruise industry have in the past and may, in the future, negatively impact the satisfaction of our guests and crew and lead to reputational damage. Our operations involve the risk of incidents and media coverage thereof. Such incidents include, but are not limited to, the improper operation or maintenance of ships, motorcoaches and trains; guest and crew illnesses; mechanical failures, fires and 38 collisions; repair delays, groundings and navigational errors; oil spills and other maritime and environmental issues as well as other incidents at sea, while in port or on land which may generate negative publicity or cause guest and crew discomfort, injury, or death. Although our commitment to the safety and comfort of our guests and crew is paramount to the success of our business, our ships have been involved in outbreaks, accidents and other incidents in the past and we may experience similar or other incidents in the future. Our ability to attract and retain the loyalty of our guests, our ability to hire and the amounts we must pay our crew depend, in part, upon the perception and reputation of our company and our brands and the public’s concerns regarding the health and safety of travel generally, as well as the cruising industry and our ships specifically. In addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our guests’ and/or crew’s ability or desire to travel to or from our ships and/or interrupt the supply of critical goods and services. d. Changes in and non-compliance with laws and regulations under which we operate, such as those relating to health, environment, safety and security, data privacy and protection, anti-money laundering, anti-corruption, economic sanctions, trade protection, labor and employment, and tax may be costly and have in the past and may, in the future, lead to litigation, enforcement actions, fines, penalties and reputational damage. We are subject to numerous international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and other legal requirements that govern health, environmental, safety and security matters in relation to our guests, crew and ships. These requirements change regularly, depending on the itineraries of our ships and the ports and countries visited. Implementing these and any subsequent requirements may be costly and take time to implement across our global cruise operations. In addition, the accelerating pace of regulatory changes may affect our ability to comply in the future. If we violate or fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, treaties and other requirements we could be, and have previously been, fined, placed on probation or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. In addition, there is increased global focus on climate change, which may lead to additional regulatory requirements. Refer to Operational Risk Factor “e.” below for additional discussion on climate change regulation risks. We are subject to laws and requirements related to the treatment and protection of personal, sensitive and/or other regulated data in the jurisdictions where we operate. Various governments, agencies and regulatory organizations have enacted or are considering new rules and regulations and we expect to continue to incur costs to comply with these rules and regulations. In the course of doing business, we collect guest, team member, company and other third-party data, including personal and other sensitive data. Our operations subject us to potential liability under anti-money laundering and anti-corruption laws and regulations. We may also be affected by economic sanctions, trade protection laws, policies and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. We are subject to compliance with tax laws, regulations and treaties in the jurisdictions in which we are incorporated or operate. These tax laws, regulations and treaties are subject to change at any time, which may result in substantially higher tax expense. For example, the OECD’s multi-jurisdictional inclusive framework is intended to address the tax challenges arising from globalization, which includes the establishment of a minimum 15% tax rate for multinational enterprises. A number of countries, including the UK and EU member states, have agreed to adopt the OECD’s minimum tax rules and several countries, including the UK, have already implemented these rules. The phased implementation of these rules is expected to begin for our fiscal year 2025, with limited impact for us before 2026. The application of these rules continues to evolve, and its outcome may alter our tax obligations in certain countries in which we operate. Other changes in domestic and international tax rules and regulations and their application could also alter our tax obligations. e. Factors associated with climate change, including evolving and increasing regulations, increasing global concern about climate change and the shift in climate conscious consumerism and stakeholder scrutiny, and increasing frequency and/or severity of adverse weather conditions could adversely affect our business. Growing concerns regarding climate change have resulted in increased global regulatory focus on GHG and other emissions which may have material impacts on our business. Refer to XIX. Governmental Regulations for additional discussion of recent developments related to Maritime Regulations, Greenhouse Gas Emissions and EU Regulations. Fossil fuels are currently the only viable option for our industry and it is not clear when alternative fuels or other technologies will be commercially viable. To provide a path to net zero emissions, alternative low GHG emission fuels will be necessary for the maritime industry; however, there are significant supply challenges that must be resolved before viability is reached. Climate change-related regulatory activity and developments that require us to reduce our emissions, which includes both the EU regulations and IMO Strategy (refer to XIX. Governmental Regulations), may individually or collectively have a material impact on our business and financial results by requiring us to make capital investments in new equipment or technologies, pay for emissions, purchase carbon offset credits, or otherwise incur additional costs or take additional actions related to our emissions. Such activity may also impact us indirectly by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. Regulatory developments may also result in the 39 inability to operate ships that do not meet certain standards, the acceleration of the removal of less fuel-efficient ships from our fleet and impact the resale value of our ships in the future. In addition, regulatory developments may restrict or limit our access to certain destinations and/or countries or impact our freedom to operate. Regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the U.S., are evolving, including the international alignment of such efforts, and we cannot determine what final regulations will be enacted or their ultimate impact on our business. Growing recognition among consumers globally of the negative effects of climate change and the impact of GHG and other emissions may lead to material changes in consumer preferences. For instance, our guests may choose a vacation option that they perceive as operating in a manner that is more sustainable for the climate, seek alternative methods of travel, or reduce the amount and frequency of their travel. In addition, some environmental focused groups have and may continue to generate negative publicity regarding the environmental impact of the cruise industry and are advocating for more stringent oversight and regulation of our industry, including of ship emissions while the ship is docked and at sea. Environmental scrutiny of our operations and the industry from the investment community, other stakeholders, and the media have impacted and may continue to impact how we are perceived, which may have a material impact on our operations and financial results. Certain climate-related actions and investments we make today may not lead us to our intended future emissions related goals or may not be favorably perceived in future years based on continuing evolving regulations and perceptions around effective emissions mitigation strategies and technologies. Our cruise ships, hotels, land tours, port and related commercial facilities and shore excursions have been and may continue to be impacted by adverse weather patterns or other natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, tornadoes, tsunamis, typhoons and volcanic eruptions. Climate change is expected to increase the frequency and intensity of certain adverse weather patterns, possibly making certain destinations less desirable or impacting our business in other ways. We have been forced to, and in the future may be forced to, alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or tours due to these or other types of disruptions. The physical climate-related risks to our business include increased hurricane/typhoon intensity and frequency, increases in global temperatures and rising sea levels which may adversely impact our shoreside facilities, our investments in ports or the availability or desirability of ports and destinations in which we operate. These effects may also disrupt the supply of critical goods and services to our facilities and ships. Any of these events could have a material impact on our business and profitability. f. Inability to meet or achieve our targets, goals, aspirations, initiatives, and our public statements and disclosures regarding them, including those that are related to sustainability matters, may expose us to risks that may adversely impact our business. We have developed and will continue to establish targets, goals, aspirations, and other objectives, including those related to sustainability matters (“sustainability objectives”). These statements reflect our current plans and do not constitute a guarantee that they will be achieved. With respect to our sustainability objectives, our efforts to research, establish, accomplish, and accurately report on these objectives expose us to numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which could have a negative impact on our business. Our ability to achieve any of our stated sustainability objectives, particularly with respect to our environmental emissions aspirations, is subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Examples of such factors include the availability and costs of low- or non-GHG emission energy sources and technology, evolving regulatory requirements affecting sustainability standards or disclosures, the availability of future financing and the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability standards. Our business may face increased scrutiny from our guests, our team members, the investment community, governments, regulators, destinations and other stakeholders that we serve related to our sustainability activities, including the sustainability objectives that we adopt, our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them and our ability to document and support the achievement of those objectives. If our sustainability practices do not meet, or are perceived to fall short of, the expectations of our guests, team members, investors or other stakeholders, demand for cruising, our reputation, our ability to attract or retain team members, and our attractiveness as an investment could be negatively impacted. In addition, governments may restrict or limit our access to ports and destinations for which there is high guest demand. Similarly, our failure or perceived failure to pursue, meet or fulfill our targets, goals, aspirations, and other objectives (including sustainability objectives) within the timelines we announce, or at all, could have the same negative impacts as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. g. Breaches in data security and lapses in data privacy as well as disruptions and other damages to our principal offices, information technology operations and system networks and failure to keep pace with developments in technology may adversely impact our business operations, the satisfaction of our guests and crew and may lead to reputational damage. We have been and may continue to be impacted by breaches in data security and lapses in data privacy, which occur from time to time. These can vary in scope and intent from motivated driven attacks to malicious attacks intended to disrupt or compromise our shoreside and shipboard operations by targeting our key operating systems. Breach or circumvention of our 40 systems or the systems of third parties, including by ransomware or malware, through vulnerabilities in licensed software or hardware, or as a result of other attacks, has led to and may continue to lead to disruptions in our business operations; unauthorized access to (or the loss of company access to) competitively sensitive, confidential or other critical data (including sensitive financial, medical or other personal or business information) or systems; loss of customers; financial losses; regulatory investigations, enforcement actions and fines; litigation; reputational damage; and misuse or corruption of critical data and proprietary information, any of which could be material. Additionally, we may rely on third parties in helping us to implement and manage our cyber security risk management processes. Any measures that we take and such third parties take to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material cyber security threats or incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. Our offices, information technology operations, system networks and various remote work locations may be impacted by actual or threatened natural disasters (for example, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, fires, tornadoes, tsunamis and typhoons) or other disruptive events. Our maritime and/or shoreside operations, including our ability to manage our inventory of cabins held for sale and set pricing, control costs and serve our guests, depends on the reliability of our information technology operations and system networks, as well as our ability to refine and update to more advanced systems and technologies. In addition, we may be unable to obtain appropriate technology in a timely manner or at all or we may incur significant costs in doing so. A failure to adopt the appropriate technology, or a failure, disruption or obsolescence in the technology that we do adopt, could have adverse effects on our business. h. The loss of key team members, our inability to recruit or retain qualified shoreside and shipboard team members and increased labor costs could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of our team members, and on our ability to recruit, develop and retain high quality, diverse team members. We may not be successful in recruiting, developing or retaining key or other highly qualified team members. In addition, high-GHG emission industries may become a less attractive employment opportunity. At times we have and may in the future experience difficulty in hiring sufficient qualified team members, due to general macroeconomic factors and/or increasingly competitive labor markets. In addition, we hire a significant number of qualified shipboard team members each year and, thus, our ability to adequately recruit, develop and retain these individuals is critical to our success. Incidents involving cruise ships, including disease outbreaks on our ships and increasing demand as a result of the industry’s projected growth could negatively impact our ability to recruit, develop and retain sufficient qualified shipboard team members. i. Increases in fuel prices, changes in the types of fuel consumed and availability of fuel supply may adversely impact our scheduled itineraries and costs. We have been and may continue to be impacted, by economic, market and political conditions around the world, regulatory requirements including climate-induced regulations, supply disruptions and related infrastructure needs, which make it difficult to predict the future price and availability of fuel. The supply and availability of different fuel types in various markets in which we operate have experienced increased volatility and have led to increased fuel prices and reduced profitability. Future increases in the global price of fuel would increase the cost of our cruise ship operations as well as some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. Increases in airfares, such as those resulting from increases in the price of fuel, would increase our guests’ overall vacation costs and could reduce demand for cruises, as many of our guests depend on airlines to transport them to or from the airports near the ports where our cruises embark and disembark. Refer to Operational Risk Factor “e.” for additional discussion on the impact of climate change and regulation changes on fuel costs. j. We rely on supply chain vendors who are integral to the operations of our businesses. These vendors and service providers may be unable to deliver on their commitments, which could negatively impact our business. We rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. Any event impacting a vendor’s ability to deliver quality goods at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to operate our business. Events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including labor actions, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics, information technology or transportation systems. In addition, global events in recent years have resulted in widespread global supply chain disruptions to vendors including critical supply chain shortages, labor shortages, significant material cost inflation and extended lead times for items that are required for our operations. Any such interruptions to our supply chain could increase our costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. 41 k. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely impact our financial results. We earn revenues, pay expenses, purchase and own assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Additionally, our shipbuilding contracts are typically denominated in euros. Movements in foreign currency exchange rates, which have recently been more volatile, will affect our financial results. l. Overcapacity and competition in the cruise and land-based vacation industry may negatively impact our cruise sales, pricing and destination options. We may be impacted by increases in capacity in the cruise and land-based vacation industry, which may result in capacity growth beyond demand, either globally or for a region, or for a particular itinerary. We face competition from other cruise brands on the basis of overall experience, destinations, types and sizes of ships and cabins, travel agent partner preferences and value. We also compete with land-based vacation alternatives throughout the world on the basis of overall experience, destinations and value. In addition, certain ports and destinations have faced a surge of both cruise and non-cruise tourism and in certain destinations, countermeasures to limit the number of tourists have been contemplated and/or put into effect, including proposed limits on cruise ships and cruise guests. Potential restrictions in ports and destinations could limit the itinerary and destination options we can offer our guests going forward. m. Inability to implement our shipbuilding programs and ship repairs, maintenance and refurbishments may adversely impact our business operations and the satisfaction of our guests. There are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build, repair, maintain and/or upgrade our ships, which may limit our ability to meet our capacity growth objectives. In addition, we may be impacted by unforeseen events, such as work stoppages, supply chain issues, insolvencies, “force majeure” events or other financial difficulties experienced by shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers. This may result in less shipyard availability resulting in delays or preventing the delivery of our ships under construction and/or the completion of the repair, maintenance or refurbishment of our existing ships. This may lead to potential delays or cancellations of cruises. Additionally, the prices of various commodities that are used in the construction of ships and for repair, maintenance and refurbishment of existing ships, such as steel, are subject to volatility which may increase our costs. Financial Risk Factors a. We require a significant amount of cash to service our debt and sustain our operations. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors, including those beyond our control, and we may not be able to generate cash required to service our debt and sustain our operations. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations, refinance our debt or sustain our business needs and operations depends on our future operating and financial performance and our ability to generate cash. This will be affected by our ability to successfully continue to execute on our business strategy, which if unsuccessful, would negatively impact the occupancy levels and pricing of our cruises. Our future performance is also impacted by general macroeconomic, financial, geopolitical, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control such as inflation, higher fuel prices, higher taxes and higher interest rates. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to meet our debt service obligations or fund our other business needs, we may, among other things, need to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing, delay planned capital expenditures or sell assets. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to generate sufficient cash through any of the foregoing. If we are not able to refinance our debt, obtain additional financing or sell assets on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt. Refer to Liquidity, Financial Condition and Capital Resources. b. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and operating flexibility. We have a substantial amount of debt, significant debt service obligations and related covenant restrictions. Despite our leverage, we may incur more debt, subject to certain restrictions, in the future. Our substantial debt has had and could continue to have important negative consequences for us. Our substantial debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a large portion of our cash flow from operations to service debt and fund repayments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to pay dividends or distributions on or redeem or repurchase capital stock and make other restricted payments; • place us at a disadvantage compared to others that have less debt; • make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, the economy or the industry in which we operate; 42 • limit our ability to raise additional debt or equity capital in the future to satisfy our requirements relating to working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, strategic initiatives or other purposes; • restrict us from introducing new technologies or exploiting business opportunities; • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; and • expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings are (and may be in the future) at a variable rate of interest. Certain of our indebtedness accrues interest at variable rates, which subjects us to interest rate volatility with respect to such instruments and could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. If we breach the covenants or restrictions in our debt instruments, we could be in default under the terms of certain of our debt instruments and may be required to seek covenant amendments or the relevant creditors could elect to declare the debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, if any, immediately due and payable (or cancel any unfunded commitments, if applicable) and proceed against the collateral, if any, securing that debt. Borrowings under our other debt instruments that contain cross-default provisions may also be accelerated or become payable on demand, and our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

2023 Executive Overview We consistently set records and achieved other significant milestones during this past year, including: • Full year revenues hit an all-time high of $21.6 billion. • For the first time since the resumption of guest cruise operations, net income was positive during the third quarter, generating $1.07 billion. • We entered 2024 with our best booked position on record, for both price and occupancy. • Total customer deposits for each quarter throughout 2023 consistently surpassed the previous quarterly records. • We reduced our debt balance by $4.6 billion from its peak in the first quarter of 2023 and ended the year with $5.4 billion of liquidity. The strengthening demand environment across all our brands contributed to our revenue growth as we drove improvements in ticket prices while closing the double-digit occupancy gap from the start of the year and reaching historical occupancy levels for the second half of 2023. We believe our advertising investments and other demand generation efforts during the past 18 months have successfully elevated awareness and consideration for our brands, leading to record booking levels and revenue results. In addition, these efforts enabled us to attract more new-to cruise and more new-to brand guests compared to 2019. We are building momentum in closing the value gap to land-based alternatives, capturing over 3.5 million new-to cruise guests in 2023 and remain well-positioned to take share from land-based alternatives. We continue to take actions to further stimulate demand and maintain our momentum through 2024 and beyond. We are focused on ongoing improvements across the commercial space as we further rollout advancements to our yield management tools and lead generation techniques, continue to invest in sales and sales support, and build on already strong relationships with our trade partners. This is complemented by our strategy to pull forward the sale of onboard items through bundled product offerings and pre-cruise sales. We are also not losing sight of our expense base, as we have worked to mitigate the impacts of a high inflation environment by leveraging our scale through cost optimization initiatives. We have made investments that we expect to increase our cost efficiencies in the future, including successfully installing SpaceX's Starlink, next generation internet across our fleet, which is expected to drive more than a 20% reduction in cost per megabit in 2024. In addition, we expect it will increase our bandwidth pipeline, resulting in both improved guest experience and higher onboard revenues. We also launched Maritime Asset Strategy Transformation (“MAST”), a centralized system developed to optimize equipment and machinery management across our brands and our fleet. During 2023, we continued to work aggressively to reduce our environmental footprint and fuel consumption. Our deep commitment resulted in industry-leading fuel efficiency and a more than 10% reduction in absolute GHG emissions compared to our peak year of 2011, despite capacity growth of 30% over the same period. We also exceeded our shore power capability goal and our fleet now has twice as many ships ready to plug into shore power as there are ports currently able to provide it. As a result of our fleet optimization efforts, our fleet is now one year younger than prior to pausing our guest cruise operations four years ago. During 2023 alone we benefited from the introduction of three fantastic new ships including Carnival Celebration and Arvia, leveraging the scale of our popular and exceptionally efficient series of excel-class ships, and Seabourn Pursuit , our second luxury expedition ship. In addition, Carnival Cruise Line welcomed Carnival Venezia, which was transferred from Costa, becoming the first ship as part of Carnival’s Fun Italian Style™ platform. We will continue to optimize our brand portfolio by transferring Costa Firenze to Carnival Cruise Line in 2024. We also made meaningful progress in other strategic asset projects. We began construction on Celebration Key in Grand Bahama, which will be the largest and closest exclusive destination in our portfolio. While not expected to open until summer 2025, we have begun generating consumer awareness and excitement around this fantastic upcoming destination. We also started the process for a significant upsize in guest traffic at Half Moon Cay, our exclusive and beautiful pristine island destination in The Bahamas, with the creation of a pier-side berth that can accommodate our largest vessels. In addition, we commenced work with our Grand Bahama Shipyard partners on the construction of two floating docks, one of which will have the largest lifting capacity in the world. Together, these strategic investments are expected to significantly benefit us by helping to reduce travel time, further reducing our fuel consumption and preserving ship revenue days. Our significantly improved 2023 cash from operations enabled us to notably reduce the substantial debt balance incurred during the pause of guest cruise operations. In 2023, we made sizeable debt prepayments and ended the year with over $5 billion of liquidity. Looking forward, we expect to continue to strategically refinance and prepay debt, leveraging our improving operating cash flow and the return of substantially all of the remaining credit card reserves during the first quarter of 2024. 48 In addition, with nearly two-thirds of 2024 on the books already, we are well positioned to achieve another year of record revenues. This, combined with excess liquidity, is expected to enable us to continue actively managing down debt and reducing interest expense, leaving us on our path back to achieving investment grade credit ratings and higher return on invested capital. This has been a truly remarkable year, and we have come a long way in an incredibly short amount of time. We delivered unforgettable happiness to over 12 million guests this year and look forward to continuing to provide our guests with extraordinary cruise vacations in 2024, while honoring the integrity of every ocean we sail, place we visit and life we touch. New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to our consolidated financial statements for further information on Accounting Pronouncements . Critical Accounting Estimates Our critical accounting estimates are those we believe require our most significant judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. A discussion of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that materially different estimates would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: Liquidity and Other Uncertainties We make several critical accounting estimates with respect to our liquidity. As part of our liquidity management, we rely on estimates of our future liquidity, which includes numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The principal assumptions used to estimate our future liquidity consist of: • Expected increases in revenue in 2024 as compared to 2023 • Expected prepayment of debt • Continued stabilization of inflationary pressures on costs compared to 2023 • Fuel prices at or around November 2023 year-end prices In addition, we make certain assumptions about new ship deliveries, improvements on existing ships as well as other capital expenditures, removals of existing ships, and consider the future export credit financings that are associated with the new ship deliveries. We have a substantial debt balance incurred during the pause in guest cruise operations and require a significant amount of liquidity or cash provided by operating activities to service our debt. We will continue to pursue various opportunities to refinance future debt maturities to extend maturity dates and reduce interest expense by repaying some of our existing indebtedness . Ship Accounting We make several critical accounting estimates with respect to our ship accounting including ship improvement costs, estimated useful lives and residual values. We account for ship improvement costs, including replacements of certain significant components and parts, by capitalizing those costs that we believe add value to our ships and have a useful life greater than one year and depreciating those improvements over their estimated remaining useful life. The costs of repairs and maintenance, including those incurred when a ship is taken out-of-service for scheduled maintenance, and minor improvement costs and expenses, are charged to expense as incurred. If we change our assumptions in making our determinations as to whether improvements to a ship add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair and maintenance expense could increase, which would be partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense, resulting from a reduction in capitalized costs. In addition, the specifically identified or estimated cost and accumulated depreciation of previously capitalized ship components are written-off upon retirement, which may result in a loss on disposal that is also included in other operating expenses. We do not have cost segregation studies performed to specifically componentize our ships. In addition, since we do not separately componentize our ships, we do not identify and track depreciation of original ship components. Therefore, we typically have to estimate the net book value of components that are retired, based primarily upon their replacement cost, their age and their original estimated useful lives. Given the large size and complexity of our ships, ship accounting estimates require considerable judgment and are inherently uncertain. 49 In order to compute our ships’ depreciation expense, we apply judgment to determine their useful lives as well as their residual values. We have estimated our ships’ useful lives at 30 years and residual values at 15% of our original ship cost. Our ships’ useful life and residual value estimates take into consideration the estimated weighted-average useful lives of the ships’ major component systems, such as hull, superstructure, main electric, engines and cabins. We also take into consideration the impact of technological changes, historical useful lives of similarly-built ships, long-term cruise and vacation market conditions and regulatory changes, including those related to the environment and climate change. We determine the residual value of our ships based on our long-term estimates of their resale value at the end of their useful lives to us but before the end of their physical and economic lives to others, historical resale values of our and other cruise ships as well as our expectations of the long-term viability of the secondary cruise ship market. We review estimated useful lives and residual values for reasonableness whenever events or circumstances significantly change. Since the pause of our guest cruise operations, we have disposed of ships for amounts significantly below their book values. Management has estimated that this trend will normalize in the coming years. The IMO recently adopted its 2023 Strategy on Reduction of GHG Emissions from Ships that would require international shipping to reduce total GHG emissions on a well-to-wake basis to net zero by or around 2050. In addition, the framework introduces checkpoints in 2030 and 2040 that seek reductions in the total GHG emissions from international shipping by at least 20% and 70%, respectively, compared to 2008. The EU has also proposed several regulations that will likely impact the cost of fossil fuels and has recently adopted the inclusion of maritime shipping in the EU’s Emission Trading System. We have established Climate Action Goals, which include a GHG intensity reduction goal of 20% by 2030 from the 2019 baseline and pursuing net zero emissions by 2050 . Given a 30-year estimated useful life for our ships, our most recently delivered vessels’ lives will extend beyond this 2050 date. Fossil fuels are currently the only viable option for our industry and it is not clear when alternative fuels or other technologies will be commercially viable. To provide a path to net zero emissions, alternative low GHG emission fuels will be necessary for the maritime industry; however, there are significant supply challenges that must be resolved before viability is reached. We are closely monitoring technology developments and partnering with key organizations on research and development to support our sustainability goals and aspirations. Our fleet’s engines are capable of being modified for use with certain alternative fuels and we have completed tests on the use of marine biofuel blends on certain ships in our fleet. In addition, and in support of our Climate Action Goals, we invest in technologies, including the use of LNG powered cruise ships, the installation of Advanced Air Quality Systems on board our ships to aid in the reduction of sulfur emissions, the use of shore power, enabling ships to use shoreside electric power where available while in port and various other efficiency related upgrades intended to reduce our emissions. It is uncertain how recently adopted, proposed and possible future regulatory changes related to the environment and climate change and our pursuit of net zero emissions by 2050, may impact our ships’ useful lives and residual values and the impact is dependent on future regulatory actions and technological advances. As of November 30, 2023, management concluded that there were no changes in our ship useful lives and residual value estimates. If materially different conditions existed, or if we materially changed our assumptions of ship useful lives and residual values, then our depreciation expense, loss on retirement of ship components and net book value of our ships would be materially different. Our 2023 ship depreciation expense would have increased by approximately: • $49 million assuming we had reduced our estimated 30-year ship useful life estimate by one year at the time we took delivery or acquired each of our ships • $245 million assuming we had estimated our ships to have no residual value We believe that the estimates we made for ship accounting purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently applied in all material respects and result in depreciation expense that is based on a rational and systematic method to equitably allocate the costs of our ships to the periods during which we use them. Valuation of Ships Impairment reviews of our ships require us to make significant estimates. We evaluate ship asset impairments at the individual ship level which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We review our ships for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a ship may not be recoverable. If estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of a ship, an impairment charge is recognized to the extent its carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. Where estimated future cash flows are used to estimate the recoverable value of a ship, the cash flows include estimated regulatory costs, including those related to proposed regulations, which are likely to impact costs and capital expenditures, including those expected to meet our 2030 Climate Action Goals. The estimation of a ship’s fair value includes numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The principal assumption used in determining the fair value of these ships was the estimated sales proceeds. We determined the fair value of these ships based on their respective estimated selling values, for those ships expected to be disposed of, or estimated discounted future cash flows and comparable market transactions. Refer to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our property and equipment policy and ship impairment reviews. 50 We believe that we have made reasonable estimates. Contingencies We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to any lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, regulatory and guest and crew matters. While it is typically very difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these matters, we use our best judgment to determine the appropriate amounts to record in our consolidated financial statements. We accrue a liability and establish a reserve when we believe a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In assessing probable losses, we make estimates of the amount of probable insurance recoveries, if any, which are recorded as assets where appropriate. Such accruals and reserves are typically based on developments to date, management’s estimates of the outcomes of these matters, our experience in contesting, litigating and settling other similar matters, historical claims experience, actuarially determined estimates of liabilities and any related insurance coverage. Given the inherent uncertainty related to the eventual outcome of these matters and potential insurance recoveries, it is possible that all or some of these matters may be resolved for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we may have made. In addition, as new information becomes available, we may need to reassess the amount of asset or liability that needs to be accrued related to our contingencies. All such changes in our estimates could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Refer to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of contingencies. Known Trends and Uncertainties • We believe the volatility in the cost of fuel and increases in other related costs are reasonably likely to continue to impact our profitability in both the short and long-term. • We believe inflation and interest rates are reasonably likely to continue to impact our profitability. • We believe a global minimum tax could affect us in 2026, with the potential for a one-year deferral. Prior to any mitigating actions, we believe the annual impact could be approximately $200 million. We continue to evaluate the impact of these rules and are currently evaluating a variety of mitigating actions to minimize the impact. The application of the rules continues to evolve, and its outcome may alter our tax obligations in certain countries in which we operate. • We believe the increasing global focus on climate change, including the reduction of GHG emissions and new and evolving regulatory requirements, is reasonably likely to have a material negative impact on our future financial results. We became subject to the EU Emission Trading Scheme (“ETS”) on January 1, 2024, which includes a three-year phase-in period. We estimate the impact in 2024 to be approximately $51 million based on a European Union Allowance cost of $75 per metric ton of emissions. Refer to XIX. Governmental Regulations. • We believe that the instability in the Red Sea region currently impacting shipping could have an impact on our results of operations. Results of Operations We have historically earned substantially all of our cruise revenues from the following: • Sales of passenger cruise tickets and, in some cases, the sale of air and other transportation to and from airports near our ships’ home ports and cancellation fees. We also collect fees, taxes and other charges from our guests. The cruise ticket price typically includes the following: • Accommodations • Most meals, including snacks at numerous venues • Access to amenities such as swimming pools, water slides, water parks, whirlpools, a health club and sun decks • Child care and supervised youth programs • Entertainment, such as theatrical and comedy shows, live music and nightclubs • Visits to multiple destinations 51 • Sales of onboard goods and services not included in the cruise ticket price. This generally includes the following: These goods and services are provided either directly by us or by independent concessionaires, from which we receive either a percentage of their revenues or a fee. Concession revenues do not have direct expenses because the costs and services incurred for concession revenues are borne by our concessionaires. In 2023, we earned 34% of our cruise revenues from onboard and other revenue goods and services. We earn our tour and other revenues from our hotel and transportation operations and other revenues. We incur cruise operating expenses for the following: • The costs of passenger cruise bookings, which include travel agent commissions, cost of air and other transportation, port fees, taxes, and charges that directly vary with guest head counts and credit and debit card fees • Onboard and other cruise costs, which include the costs of beverage sales, costs of shore excursions, costs of retail sales, internet and communication costs, credit and debit card fees, other onboard costs, costs of cruise vacation protection programs and pre- and post-cruise land packages • Payroll and related costs, which include the costs of officers and crew in bridge, engineering and hotel operations. Substantially all costs associated with our shoreside personnel are included in selling and administrative expenses • Fuel costs, which include fuel delivery costs • Food costs, which include both our guest and crew food costs • Other ship operating expenses, which include port costs that do not vary with guest head counts; repairs and maintenance, including minor improvements and dry-dock expenses; hotel costs; entertainment; gains and losses on ship sales; ship impairments; freight and logistics; insurance premiums and all other ship operating expenses We incur tour and other costs and expenses for our hotel and transportation operations and other expenses. 52 Statistical Information Notes to Statistical Information (a) PCD represents the number of cruise passengers on a voyage multiplied by the number of revenue-producing ship operating days for that voyage. (b) ALBD is a standard measure of passenger capacity for the period that we use to approximate rate and capacity variances, based on consistently applied formulas that we use to perform analyses to determine the main non-capacity driven factors that cause our cruise revenues and expenses to vary. ALBDs assume that each cabin we offer for sale accommodates two passengers and is computed by multiplying passenger capacity by revenue-producing ship operating days in the period. (c) Occupancy, in accordance with cruise industry practice, is calculated using a numerator of PCDs and a denominator of ALBDs, which assumes two passengers per cabin even though some cabins can accommodate three or more passengers. Percentages in excess of 100% indicate that on average more than two passengers occupied some cabins. (d) Fuel consumption in metric tons per thousand ALBDs for 2021 is not meaningful. 2023 Compared to 2022 The discussion below compares the results of operations for the year ended November 30, 2023 to the year ended November 30, 2022. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report. For a comparison of the Company’s results of operations for the year ended November 30, 2022 to the year ended November 30, 2021, see “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2022, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on January 27, 2023. 53 Results of Operations 54 During the pause in our guest cruise operations, we incurred substantial debt and require a significant amount of cash to service our debt. Our ability to generate cash will be affected by general macroeconomic, financial, geopolitical, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. The full extent of these impacts is uncertain and may be amplified by our substantial debt balance. Revenues Consolidated Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 65% of our total revenues in 2023 while onboard and other revenues made up 35%. Revenues for the year ended November 30, 2023 increased by $9.4 billion to $21.6 billion from $12.2 billion in 2022 due to the significant increase of ships in service and considerably higher occupancy levels in 2023 as compared to 2022. ALBDs increased to 91.3 million in 2023 as compared to 72.5 million in 2022. Occupancy for 2023 was 100%, compared to 75% in 2022. NAA Segment Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 63% of our NAA segment’s total revenues in 2023 while onboard and other cruise revenues made up 37%. NAA segment revenues for 2023 increased by $6.3 billion to $14.6 billion from $8.3 billion in 2022 due to the significant increase of ships in service and considerably higher occupancy levels in 2023 as compared to 2022. ALBDs increased to 56.4 million in 2023 as compared to 44.3 million in 2022. Occupancy for 2023 was 103% compared to 82% in 2022. Europe Segment Cruise passenger ticket revenues made up 77% of our Europe segment’s total revenues in 2023 while onboard and other cruise revenues made up 23%. Europe segment revenues for 2023 increased by $3.0 billion to $6.5 billion from $3.5 billion in 2022 due to the significant increase of ships in service and considerably higher occupancy levels in 2023 as compared to 2022. ALBDs increased to 34.9 million in 2023 as compared to 28.2 million in 2022. Occupancy for 2023 was 95% compared to 65% in 2022. Operating Expenses Consolidated Operating expenses increased by $2.6 billion to $14.3 billion in 2023 from $11.8 billion in 2022. These increases were driven by our resumption of guest cruise operations, an increase of ships in service and considerably higher occupancy levels. Fuel costs decreased by $0.1 billion to $2.0 billion in 2023 from $2.2 billion in 2022. $0.4 billion of this decrease was caused by lower fuel prices and changes in fuel mix of $129 per metric ton consumed in 2023 compared to 2022, partially offset by higher fuel consumption due to the resumption of guest cruise operations. We did not recognize ship and other impairment charges in 2023 compared to $440 million recognized in 2022. Selling and administrative expenses increased by $0.4 billion to $2.9 billion in 2023 from $2.5 billion in 2022. This increase was 55 caused by increases in advertising costs and administrative expenses incurred as part of our resumption of guest cruise operations, which includes an increase in incentive compensation reflecting expected improvements in the company’s current and long-term performance. The drivers in changes in costs and expenses for our NAA and Europe segments are the same as those described for our consolidated results. Nonoperating Income (Expense) Interest expense, net of capitalized interest, increased by $0.5 billion to $2.1 billion in 2023 from $1.6 billion in 2022. The increase was caused by a higher average interest rate in 2023 compared to 2022, partially offset by a decrease in total debt. Debt extinguishment and modification costs were $111 million in 2023 as a result of debt transactions during the year compared to $1 million in 2022. 56 Liquidity, Financial Condition and Capital Resources As of November 30, 2023, we had $5.4 billion of liquidity including $2.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion of borrowings available under our Revolving Facility, which matures in August 2024. In February 2023, Carnival Holdings II entered into the $2.1 billion New Revolving Facility, which may be utilized beginning in August 2024, at which date it will replace our Revolving Facility. We will continue to pursue various opportunities to refinance future debt maturities to extend maturity dates and reduce interest expense by repaying some of our existing indebtedness. Refer to Note 5 - “Debt” of the consolidated financial statements and Funding Sources below for additional details. We had a working capital deficit of $6.2 billion as of November 30, 2023 compared to a working capital deficit of $3.1 billion as of November 30, 2022. The increase in working capital deficit was caused by a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash and an increase in customer deposits, partially offset by an increase in prepaid expenses and a decrease in short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt. We operate with a substantial working capital deficit. This deficit is mainly attributable to the fact that, under our business model, substantially all of our passenger ticket receipts are collected in advance of the applicable sailing date. These advance passenger receipts generally remain a current liability on our balance sheet until the sailing date. The cash generated from these advance receipts is used interchangeably with cash on hand from other sources, such as our borrowings and other cash from operations. The cash received as advanced receipts can be used to fund operating expenses, pay down our debt, make long-term investments or any other use of cash. Included within our working capital are $6.1 billion and $4.9 billion of customer deposits as of November 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We have agreements with a number of credit card processors that transact customer deposits related to our cruise vacations. Certain of these agreements allow the credit card processors to request, under certain circumstances, that we provide a reserve fund in cash. In addition, we have a relatively low level of accounts receivable and limited investment in inventories. Sources and Uses of Cash Operating Activities Our business provided $4.3 billion of net cash flows from operating activities during 2023, an increase of $6.0 billion, compared to $1.7 billion used in 2022. This was caused by a decrease in the net loss compared to the same period in 2022 and other working capital changes. Investing Activities During 2023, net cash used in investing activities was $2.8 billion. This was driven by: • Capital expenditures of $1.9 billion for our ongoing new shipbuilding program • Capital expenditures of $1.4 billion for ship improvements and replacements, information technology and buildings and improvements • Proceeds from sales of ships and other of $340 million During 2022, net cash used in investing activities was $4.8 billion. This was driven by: • Capital expenditures of $3.9 billion for our ongoing new shipbuilding program • Capital expenditures of $1.1 billion for ship improvements and replacements, information technology and buildings and improvements • Proceeds from sales of ships and other of $70 million • Purchases of short-term investments of $315 million • Proceeds from maturity of short-term investments of $515 million Financing Activities During 2023, net cash used in financing activities of $5.1 billion was driven by: • Repayments of $200 million of short-term borrowings • Repayments of $5.9 billion of long-term debt and refinancing of $1.8 billion of long-term debt to extend maturities • Issuances of $3.0 billion of long-term debt • Debt issuance costs of $131 million • Debt extinguishment costs of $79 million • Proceeds from issuance of $22 million of Carnival Corporation common stock and purchases of $20 million of Carnival plc ordinary shares under our Stock Swap Program During 2022, net cash provided by financing activities of $3.6 billion was caused by: • Net repayments of short-term borrowings of $2.6 billion • Repayments of $2.1 billion of long-term debt 57 • Debt issuance costs of $153 million • Issuances of $7.2 billion of long-term debt • Net proceeds of $1.2 billion from the public offering of Carnival Corporation common stock • Proceeds from issuance of $95 million of Carnival Corporation common stock and purchases of $87 million of Carnival plc ordinary shares under our Stock Swap Program For the Company’s cash flow activities for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2021, see “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2022, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on January 27, 2023. Material Cash Requirements (a) Includes principal as well as estimated interest payments and does not include the impact of any future possible refinancings. Excludes undrawn export credits. (b) As of November 30, 2023, we have committed undrawn export credit facilities of $3.0 billion which fund a portion of our newbuild contractual commitments. Funding Sources As of November 30, 2023, we had $5.4 billion of liquidity including $2.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents and $3.0 billion of borrowings available under our Revolving Facility, which matures in August 2024. In February 2023, Carnival Holdings II entered into the $2.1 billion New Revolving Facility, which may be utilized beginning in August 2024, at which date it will replace our Revolving Facility. Refer to Note 5 - “Debt” of the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion. In addition, we had $3.0 billion of undrawn export credit facilities to fund ship deliveries planned through 2025. We plan to use existing liquidity and future cash flows from operations to fund our cash requirements including capital expenditures not funded by our export credit facilities. We seek to manage our credit risk exposures, including counterparty nonperformance associated with our cash and cash equivalents, and future financing facilities by conducting business with well-established financial institutions, and export credit agencies and diversifying our counterparties. Our export credit facilities contain various financial covenants as described in Note 5 - “Debt.” At November 30, 2023, we were in compliance with the applicable covenants under our debt agreements. Stock Swap Program Our Stock Swap Program allows us to realize a net cash benefit when Carnival Corporation common stock is trading at a premium to the price of Carnival plc ordinary shares. Under the Stock Swap Program, we may elect to offer and sell shares of Carnival Corporation common stock at prevailing market prices in ordinary brokers’ transactions and repurchase an equivalent number of Carnival plc ordinary shares in the UK market. Any sales of Carnival Corporation common stock and Carnival plc ordinary shares have been or will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. During 2023, under the Stock Swap Program, we sold 2.3 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock and repurchased the same amount of Carnival plc ordinary shares, resulting in net proceeds of $2 million which were used for general corporate purposes. In addition, during 2023 we sold 0.5 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock at an average price per share of $9.83, resulting in net proceeds of $5 million. During 2022, we sold 6.0 million shares of Carnival Corporation’s common stock and repurchased the same amount of Carnival plc ordinary shares, resulting in net proceeds of $8 million which were used for general corporate purposes. In addition, during 2022 we sold 1.6 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock at an average price per share of $19.27, resulting in net proceeds of $30 million. During 2021, we sold $8.9 million shares of Carnival Corporation’s common stock and repurchased the same 58 amount of Carnival plc ordinary shares, resulting in net proceeds of $19 million. In addition, during 2021 we sold 0.6 million shares of Carnival Corporation common stock at an average price per share of $21.32, resulting in net proceeds of $13 million. 59