********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

There are many factors that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some important factors that may cause our business prospects, results of operations and cash flows in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired. Factors not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Business and Operational Risks The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic has adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our business and results of operations and could also adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. The global spread of COVID-19 continues to create significant macroeconomic uncertainty, volatility and disruption. Many governments and health authorities have implemented recommendations or mandates intended to slow the further spread of the disease, such as shelter-in-place orders, resulting in the temporary closure of schools and non-essential businesses, or social distancing measures, resulting in modified operations of various businesses including ours, and these measures may remain in place for a significant period of time. While some of these restrictions have been lifted or eased in certain jurisdictions, other restrictions such as vaccine mandates and testing requirements have been newly imposed, and the recovery process is uncertain. We have experienced and could continue to experience disruptions, including as a result of resurgences of COVID-19, that prevent us from meeting the demands of our customers, such as product constraints from our vendor partners and wholesale distributors and other disruptions to our supply chain, disruptions in or restrictions on the ability of our coworkers to work effectively, temporary closures of our distribution facilities, modifications in the operation of facilities that remain open and disruptions of commercial delivery services. The impact of COVID-19 and measures implemented to slow the spread have caused and could continue to cause delay in, or limit the ability of, our customers to place orders for our products and services and make timely payments to us and could materially increase our labor, logistics and other costs. As long as the pandemic continues, our coworkers will continue to be exposed to health risks, and we could be negatively impacted in the future if a significant number of our coworkers, or coworkers who perform critical functions, become unable to work as a result of exposure to COVID-19. In addition, the pandemic has resulted in a widespread health crisis that has adversely affected the economies and financial markets of many countries, including the US, the UK and Canada. During the COVID-19 pandemic and even after it has subsided, we may experience adverse impacts to our business as a result of the pandemic’s global economic impact, including any recession, economic downturn or volatility, government spending cuts, tightening of credit markets or increased unemployment that has occurred or may occur in the future, which could cause our customers and potential customers to postpone or reduce spending on technology products or services or put downward pressure on prices. In addition, we may experience inflationary pressures, resulting in increased product prices that we may be unable to pass on to our customers. Individually and collectively, the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic have adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our business and results of operations and could also adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the ultimate duration and severity of the pandemic, future resurgences and emergences of new variants of the virus, the availability, efficacy and acceptance of a vaccine and treatments, actions taken to contain the virus including reimplementation of closures, and the effectiveness of these actions, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume and be sustained. The COVID-19 pandemic has and may continue to have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this “Risk Factors” section. Our business depends on our vendor partner relationships and the terms of the agreements governing those relationships. Our solutions portfolio includes products and services from OEMs, software publishers and cloud providers. We are authorized by these vendor partners to sell all or some of their products and services via direct marketing activities. Our authorization with each vendor partner is subject to specific terms and conditions regarding such things as sales channel restrictions, product return privileges, services performance commitments, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor partner programs and funding, including purchase rebates, sales volume rebates, purchasing incentives and cooperative advertising reimbursements. However, we do not have any long-term contracts with our vendor partners and many of these arrangements are terminable upon notice by either party. A reduction in vendor partner programs or funding or our failure to timely react to changes in vendor partner programs or funding could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, a reduction in the amount or a change in the terms of credit granted to us by our vendor partners could increase our 10 need for, and the cost of, working capital and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows, particularly given our level of indebtedness. From time to time, vendor partners may terminate or limit our right to sell some or all of their products or change the terms and conditions or reduce or discontinue the incentives that they offer us. For example, there is no assurance that, as our vendor partners continue to sell directly to end users and through resellers, they will not limit or curtail the availability of their products to solutions providers like us. Any such termination or limitation or the implementation of such changes could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or cash flows. We purchase the products included in our portfolio both directly from our vendor partners and from wholesale distributors. Although we purchase from a diverse vendor base, in 2021, products we purchased from wholesale distributors Ingram Micro and TD SYNNEX, together, represented over 30% of total US purchases. In addition, sales of products manufactured by Apple, Cisco, Dell EMC, HP Inc., Lenovo and Microsoft, whether purchased directly from these vendor partners or from a wholesale distributor, represented over 50% of our 2021 consolidated Net sales. Sales of products manufactured by Dell EMC and Lenovo represented over 20% of our 2021 consolidated Net sales. The loss of, or change in business relationship with, any of these or any other wholesale distributors or key vendor partners, or the diminished availability of their products, including due to backlogs for their products, could reduce the supply and increase the cost of products we sell and negatively impact our competitive position. Further, the sale, spin-off or combination of any of our wholesale distributors or key vendor partners and/or certain of their business units, including any such sale to or combination with a vendor with whom we do not currently have a commercial relationship or whose products we do not sell, or our inability to develop relationships with new and emerging vendors and vendors that we have not historically represented in the marketplace, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Our sales are dependent on continued innovations in hardware, software and services by our vendor partners and the competitiveness of their offerings, and our ability to partner with new and emerging technology providers. The technology industry is characterized by rapid innovation and the frequent introduction of new and enhanced hardware, software and services, such as cloud-based solutions, including Software as a Service (“SaaS”), Infrastructure as a Service (“IaaS”) and Platform as a Service (“PaaS”); Device as a Service (“DaaS”); the Internet of Things (“IoT”); and artificial intelligence (“AI”). We have been and will continue to be dependent on innovations in hardware, software and services, as well as the acceptance of those innovations by customers. Also, customers may delay spending while they evaluate new technologies. A decrease in the rate of innovation, a lack of acceptance of innovations by our customers or delays in technology spending by our customers, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if we are unable to anticipate and expand our capabilities to keep pace with changes in technology and new hardware, software and services, for example by providing the appropriate training to our account managers, technology specialists and engineers to enable them to effectively sell and deliver such new offerings to customers, our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We also are dependent upon our vendor partners for the development and marketing of hardware, software and services to compete effectively with hardware, software and services of vendors whose products and services we do not currently offer or that we are not authorized to offer in one or more customer channels. To the extent that a vendor’s offering that is in high demand is not available to us for resale in one or more customer channels, and there is not a competitive offering from another vendor that we are authorized to sell in such customer channels, our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. Substantial competition could reduce our market share and significantly harm our financial performance. Our current competition includes: • resellers and service providers, such as Computacenter, Connection, ePlus, Insight Enterprises, NTT, Optiv, Presidio, SCC, Softchoice, World Wide Technology and many smaller resellers and service providers; • manufacturers who sell directly to customers, such as Adobe, Apple, Dell EMC, HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise; • large service providers and system integrators, such as Accenture, Dell EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and IBM; • communications service providers, such as AT&T, CenturyLink and Verizon; 11 • cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services, Google and Microsoft; • e-tailers, such as Amazon and Newegg; and • retailers (including their e-commerce activities), such as Office Depot and Staples. We expect the competitive landscape to continue to evolve as new technologies and consumption models emerge, such as cloud-based and other “as a service” solutions, hyper-converged infrastructure and embedded software solutions. Our continued competitiveness depends upon our ability to anticipate and evolve at pace and scale with new technologies, services and solutions through strategic and timely investments in innovation, expansion of offerings and the capabilities necessary to implement them. While innovation can help our business as it creates new offerings for us to sell, it can also disrupt our business model and create new and stronger competitors. For instance, while cloud-based solutions present an opportunity for us, cloud-based solutions and technology solutions as a service could increase the amount of sales directly to customers rather than through solutions providers like us, or could reduce the amount of hardware we sell. In addition, some of our hardware and software vendor partners sell, and could intensify their efforts to sell, their products directly to our customers. Moreover, traditional OEMs have increased their services capabilities through mergers and acquisitions with service providers, which could potentially increase competition in the market to provide comprehensive technology solutions to customers. If we are unable to effectively respond to the evolving competitive landscape, or respond in a manner that is less effective than that of our competitors, our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely impacted. We focus on providing high quality service to gain new customers and retain existing customers. To the extent we face increased competition to gain and retain customers, we may be required to reduce prices, increase advertising expenditures or take other actions which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, some of our competitors may reduce their prices in an attempt to stimulate sales, which may require us to reduce prices. This would require us to sell a greater number of products to achieve the same level of Net sales and Gross profit. If such a reduction in prices occurs and we are unable to attract new customers and sell increased quantities of products, our sales growth and profitability could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends on the continuing development, maintenance and operation of our information technology systems. Our success is dependent on the accuracy, proper utilization and continuing operation, maintenance and development of our information technology systems, including our business systems, such as our sales, customer management, financial and accounting, marketing, purchasing, warehouse management, e-commerce and mobile systems, as well as our operational platforms, including voice and data networks and power systems. The quality and our utilization of the information generated by our information technology systems, and our success in implementing new systems and upgrades, affects, among other things, our ability to: • conduct business with our customers, including delivering services and solutions to them; • provide the means to effectively manage global operations across time zones; • keep pace with changes and innovation and compete effectively; • effectuate comprehensive and reliable data collection, maintenance and governance; • manage our inventory, accounts receivable and accounts payable; • support planned growth in services and solutions and continued evolution of the business; • purchase, sell, ship and invoice our hardware and software products and provide and invoice our services efficiently and on a timely basis; and • maintain our cost-efficient operating model while scaling our business. The integrity of our information technology systems is vulnerable to disruption due to forces beyond our control. While we have taken steps to protect our information technology systems from a variety of threats, both internal and external, and from human error, there can be no guarantee that those steps will be effective. Furthermore, although we have redundant systems at a separate location to back up our primary systems, there can be no assurance that these redundant systems will operate properly if and when required. Any disruption to or infiltration of our information technology systems could significantly harm our reputation, business and results of operations due to failure to comply with customer, partner, legal or regulatory obligations. 12 Breaches of data security and the failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats could adversely impact our business. Our business involves the handling, storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of coworkers, customers, partners and others. In connection with our services business, some of our coworkers have access to our customers’ confidential data and other information. Additionally, third parties, such as data center colocation and hosted solution partners, provide services to us and also provide services as a component of our services delivery to customers. These third parties or others that are a part of our supply chain could also be a source of security risk in the event of a failure to protect their own products, security systems and infrastructure and we may not be able to control the manner in which these third parties respond to any security breach. We have privacy and data security policies, practices and controls in place that are designed to prevent security breaches; however, as newer technologies evolve, as more business is conducted on line and remotely, and as the portfolio of the service providers we exchange confidential information, software and/or hardware with expands, we are exposed to increased risks from breaches in security, including those arising from human error, negligence or mismanagement or from illegal or fraudulent acts, such as cyberattacks. Although we have not experienced a material security breach to date, we regularly experience malicious attacks and other attempts to gain authorized access to our systems. The evolving nature of threats to data security, in light of new and sophisticated methods used by criminals and cyberterrorists, state-sponsored organizations and nation-states, including computer viruses, malware, ransomware, phishing, misrepresentation, social engineering and forgery, make it increasingly challenging to anticipate and adequately mitigate these threats should they materialize. Breaches in security could expose us, our supply chain, our customers or other individuals to significant disruptions and a risk of public disclosure, loss or misuse of this information. Security breaches could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability or regulatory penalties under laws protecting the privacy of personal information (including those under the European Union General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act), significant remediation costs as well as the loss of existing or potential customers and, ultimately, damage to our brand and reputation. While we maintain insurance coverages that are intended to address certain aspects of data security, such insurance may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Moreover, media or other reports of perceived vulnerabilities in our network security or perceived lack of security within our environment, even if inaccurate, could materially adversely impact our reputation and business. The cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could also be significant. Such breaches, costs and consequences could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. If we or our third-party service providers fail to provide high-quality services to our customers, our reputation, brand, business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Our services include professional services, managed services, warranties, configuration services, partner services and telecom services. Additionally, we deliver and manage mission critical software, systems and network solutions for our customers. We also offer certain services, such as implementation and installation services and repair services, to our customers through various third-party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf. If we or our third-party service providers fail to provide high-quality services to our customers or such services result in an unplanned disruption of our customers’ businesses, this could, among other things, result in legal claims and proceedings and liability for us. Moreover, as we expand our services and solutions business and provide increasingly complex services and solutions, we may be exposed to additional operational, regulatory and other risks. We also could incur liability for failure to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to the new services and solutions we provide to our customers. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation with our customers, our brand and our business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. If we lose any of our key personnel, are unable to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our labor costs significantly increase or if our approach to workforce management is ineffective, our business could be disrupted and our financial performance could suffer. Our success is heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, develop, engage and retain key personnel to manage, lead, innovate and grow our business, including our key executive, management, sales, services and technical coworkers. The proposed federal vaccinate mandate, along with any other vaccine requirements applicable to our coworkers, and the uncertainty and unpredictability of the COVID-19 environment, could make it more difficult to attract or retain key personnel. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts of our leadership team, as well as the effectiveness of our succession planning and efforts to develop and promote top talent. Our future success also will depend on our ability to retain and motivate our customer-facing coworkers, who have been given critical CDW knowledge regarding, and the opportunity to develop strong relationships with, many of our customers. In addition, as we seek to expand our offerings of value-added services and solutions, our success will even more heavily depend on attracting and retaining highly skilled technology specialists and engineers, for whom the market is extremely competitive. 13 In order to attract, retain and motivate key personnel in a competitive marketplace, it is important to provide a competitive compensation package. If our compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel could be adversely affected. Additionally, as minimum wage rates increase or related laws and regulations change, we have and may need to continue to increase not only the wage rates of our minimum wage coworkers, but also the wages paid to our other hourly or salaried coworkers. We have observed an overall tightening and increasingly competitive labor market, in particular with highly skilled technology specialists and engineers. A sustained labor shortage or increased turnover rates within our coworker base, whether caused by COVID-19 or as a result of general macroeconomic factors occurring throughout the US economy, could lead to increased costs, such as increased overtime to meet demand and increased wage rates to attract and retain coworkers, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, if we fail to effectively manage our workforce, we may need to terminate or reposition coworkers within our Company to eliminate an abundance of or to reconfigure resources, which could damage our coworker relations and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we are unable to attract, develop, engage and retain key personnel, or if our approach to workforce management is ineffective, our relationships with our vendor partners and customers and our ability to expand our offerings of value-added services and solutions could be adversely affected. Moreover, if we are unable to continue to train our sales, services and technical personnel effectively to meet the rapidly changing technology needs of our customers, the overall quality and efficiency of such personnel could decrease. Such consequences could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. A natural disaster or other adverse occurrence at one of our primary facilities or a third-party provider location could damage our business. If the warehouse and distribution equipment or operations at one of our distribution centers were to be seriously damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster, which may increase in number or severity as a result of climate change, or other adverse occurrence, including disruption related to political or social unrest, we could utilize another distribution center or third-party distributors to ship products to our customers. However, this may not be sufficient to avoid interruptions in our service and may not enable us to meet all of the needs of our customers and would cause us to incur incremental operating costs. In addition, we operate numerous facilities which may contain both business-critical data and confidential information of our customers and third parties, such as data center colocation and hosted solution partners, and third-parties provide services as a component of our services delivery to customers. A natural disaster or other adverse occurrence at any of our major data storage locations or third-party provider locations could negatively impact our business, results of operations or cash flows. Increases in the cost of commercial delivery services or disruptions of those services could materially adversely impact our business. We generally ship hardware products to our customers by FedEx, United Parcel Service and other commercial delivery services and invoice customers for delivery charges. If we are unable to pass on to our customers future increases in the cost of commercial delivery services (including those that may result from an increase in fuel or personnel costs or a need to use higher cost delivery channels during periods of increased demand), our profitability could be adversely affected. Additionally, strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters or other service interruptions by such shippers or periods of increased demand on delivery services, such as those we have experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic, could materially adversely affect our ability to deliver or receive products on a timely basis. We are exposed to accounts receivable and inventory risks. We extend credit to our customers for a significant portion of our sales. We are subject to the risk that our customers may not pay for the products they have purchased, may pay at a slower rate than we have historically experienced, or may seek extended payment terms. This risk is heightened during periods of global or industry-specific economic downturn or uncertainty, during periods of rising interest rates or, in the case of public sector customers, during periods of budget constraints. Significant failures of customers to timely pay all amounts due to us could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. We are also exposed to inventory risks as a result of the rapid technological changes that affect the market and pricing for the products we sell. In addition to drop-ship arrangements with many of our OEMs and wholesale distributors, we seek to minimize our inventory exposure through a variety of inventory management procedures and policies, including our rapid-turn inventory model, as well as vendor price protection and product return programs. However, if we were unable to maintain our rapid-turn inventory model, if there were unforeseen product developments that created more rapid obsolescence or if our vendor partners were to change their terms and conditions, our inventory risks could increase. We also from time to time take advantage of cost savings associated with certain opportunistic bulk inventory purchases offered by our vendor partners or we 14 may decide to carry high inventory levels of certain products that have limited or no return privileges due to customer demand or request or to manage supply chain interruptions. If we purchase inventory in anticipation of customer demand that does not materialize, or if customers reduce or delay orders, and if we were unable to return the inventory to a vendor partner, we would be exposed to an increased risk of inventory obsolescence. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Sirius acquisition remains subject to a number of uncertainties. On December 1, 2021, the Company completed its acquisition of Sirius (the “Sirius Acquisition”). Risks and uncertainties associated with the integration of Sirius include, among other things, our ability to retain key personnel and maintain relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties. Moreover, achieving the anticipated benefits of the Sirius Acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including that the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, that the Sirius Acquisition may not be accretive to the extent anticipated, and that the Company’s acquisition and integration of Sirius may involve unanticipated liabilities and costs. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Sirius Acquisition in the expected timeframe or at all could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and common stock price. We could be exposed to additional risks if we continue to make strategic investments or acquisitions or enter into alliances. We may continue to pursue transactions, including strategic investments, acquisitions or alliances, in an effort to extend or complement our existing business. These types of transactions involve numerous business risks, including finding suitable transaction partners and negotiating terms that are acceptable to us, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, extending our product or service offerings into areas in which we have limited experience, entering into new geographic markets, the potential loss of key coworkers or business relationships and successfully integrating acquired businesses. There can be no assurance that the intended benefits of our investments, acquisitions and alliances will be realized, or that those benefits will offset these numerous risks or other unforeseen factors, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by financial adjustments required by generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“US GAAP”) in connection with these types of transactions, including the Sirius Acquisition, where significant goodwill or intangible assets are recorded. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly, which may result in volatility in the market price of our stock and could impact our ability to operate our business effectively. We may experience significant variations in our future quarterly results of operations. These fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile and may result from many factors, including the condition of the technology industry in general, shifts in demand and pricing for hardware, software and services, the introduction of new products or upgrades. Further, if our customers’ businesses are adversely affected by the impact of COVID-19, they may delay or reduce purchases from us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results are also highly dependent on Gross profit as a percentage of Net sales. Our Gross profit percentage fluctuates due to numerous factors, some of which may be outside of our control, including general macroeconomic conditions, such as inflation; pricing pressures; changes in product costs from our vendor partners; the availability of price protection, purchase discounts and incentive programs from our vendor partners; changes in product, order size and customer mix; the risk of some items in our inventory becoming obsolete; increases in product and delivery costs that we cannot pass on to customers; and general market and competitive conditions. In addition, our cost structure is based, in part, on anticipated sales and gross margins. Therefore, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected sales or gross margin shortfall, and any such inability could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Fluctuations in foreign currency have an effect on our reported results of operations. Our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. While our Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in US dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the US are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into US dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US dollar relative to the local currencies of our international subsidiaries, particularly the British pound and the Canadian dollar, could cause material fluctuations in our reported results of operations. We also have foreign currency exposure to the extent sales and purchases are not denominated in a subsidiary’s functional currency, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Macroeconomic and Industry Risks Global and regional economic and political conditions may have an adverse impact on our business. Weak or unstable economic and political conditions generally, sustained uncertainty about global economic and political conditions, government spending cuts and the impact of new government policies (including the introduction of new or increased taxes, the imposition of minimum taxes or new or increased limitations on deductions, credits or other tax benefits), or a tightening of credit markets, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, could cause our customers and potential customers to postpone or reduce spending on technology products or services or put downward pressure on prices, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. For example, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the economic and other impacts of the UK’s exit from the European Union (“EU”) in 2020, referred to as “Brexit”. Potential adverse consequences of Brexit and the uncertainties around the UK and EU’s relationship include global market uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, additional costs and operational burdens associated with increased operational restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and other countries, potential adverse effects on the mobility of personnel and potentially increased regulatory complexities, each of which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have established a presence in the Netherlands to help address future developments, as needed, for Brexit, which could add complexity to our European operations as well as result in higher costs associated with serving our customers. The interruption of the flow of products from suppliers could disrupt our supply chain. Our business depends on the timely supply of products in order to meet the demands of our customers. Manufacturing interruptions or delays, including as a result of the financial instability or bankruptcy of manufacturers, significant labor disputes such as strikes, natural disasters (which may increase in number or severity as a result of climate change), political or social unrest, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) or other public health crises, or other adverse occurrences affecting any of our suppliers’ facilities, could disrupt our supply chain. We have experienced and could continue to experience product constraints due to the failure of suppliers to accurately forecast customer demand, or to manufacture sufficient quantities of product to meet customer demand (including as a result of shortages of product components), among other reasons. Additionally, the relocation of key distributors utilized in our purchasing model could increase our need for, and the cost of, working capital and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, supply chain disruptions during the COVID-19 pandemic have caused and could continue to cause us to experience more volatility in our level of inventory and delays in completion of orders and installations for our customers. Our supply chain is also exposed to risks related to international operations. While we purchase our products primarily in the markets we serve (for example, products for US customers are sourced in the US), our vendor partners manufacture or purchase a significant portion of the products we sell outside of the US, primarily in Asia. Political, social or economic instability in Asia, or in other regions in which our vendor partners purchase or manufacture the products we sell, could cause disruptions in trade, including exports to the US. Other events related to international operations that could cause disruptions to our supply chain include: • the imposition of additional trade law provisions or regulations, including the adoption or expansion of trade restrictions; • the imposition of additional duties, tariffs and other charges on imports and exports, including any resulting retaliatory tariffs or charges and any reductions in the production of products subject to such tariffs and charges; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • restrictions on the transfer of funds. We cannot predict whether the countries in which the products we sell, or any components of those products, are purchased or manufactured will be subject to new or additional trade restrictions or sanctions imposed by the US or foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. Trade restrictions, including new or increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, sanctions, safeguards and customs restrictions against the products we sell, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of product available to us and adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, our exports are subject to regulations, some of which may be inconsistent, and noncompliance with these requirements could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. 16 Our financial performance could be adversely affected by decreases in spending on technology products and services by our public and private sector customers due to, among other things, customer spending decisions and government spending policies. Our sales are impacted by customer spending decisions on technology, including refresh decisions, customer initiatives that drive technology spending and customer budget priorities. Our sales to our public sector customers, and our other customers that do business with our public sector customers in particular, are impacted by government spending policies, budget priorities and revenue levels. An adverse change in government spending policies (such as budget cuts or limitations or temporary shutdowns of government operations), shifts in budget priorities or reductions in revenue levels, could cause our impacted public sector customers or our other customers that do business with impacted public sector customers to reduce or delay their purchases or to terminate or not renew their contracts with us, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, such adverse change in government spending policies, shifts in budget priorities or reductions in revenue levels could impact cash collections from contracts with our impacted public sector customers or other customers that do business with impacted public sector customers, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Legal and Regulatory Risks The failure to comply with our public sector contracts or applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, termination, fines or other liabilities, and changes in procurement regulations could adversely impact our business, results of operations or cash flows. Revenues from our public sector customers are derived from sales to governmental entities, educational institutions and healthcare customers through various contracts and open market sales of products and services. Sales to public sector customers are highly regulated and present risks and challenges not present in private commercial agreements. Noncompliance with contract provisions, government procurement regulations or other applicable laws or regulations (including the False Claims Act, the Medicare and Medicaid Anti-Kickback Statute or similar laws of the jurisdictions for our business activities outside of the US) or security clearance and confidentiality requirements could result in civil, criminal and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of government contracts or other public sector customer contracts, and suspension, debarment or ineligibility from doing business with governmental entities or other customers in the public sector. In addition, contracts in the public sector are generally terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency or group purchasing organization (“GPO”) or upon default and public sector contracts may be subject to periodic funding approval, rejections or delays, which could adversely impact public sector demand for our products and services. Furthermore, our inability to enter into or retain contracts with GPOs may threaten our ability to sell to customers in those GPOs and compete effectively. The effect of any of these possible actions or failures could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations and other requirements may increase our compliance costs and reduce our gross margins, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. We are exposed to risks from legal proceedings and audits, including intellectual property infringement claims, which may result in substantial costs and expenses or interruption of our normal business operations. We are party to various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business, which include commercial, employment, tort and other litigation. We are also subject to intellectual property infringement claims against us in the ordinary course of our business, either because of the products and services we sell or the business systems and processes we use to sell such products and services, in the form of cease-and-desist letters, licensing inquiries, lawsuits and other communications and demands. In our industry, such intellectual property claims have become more frequent as the complexity of technological products and the intensity of competition in our industry have increased. Increasingly, many of these assertions are brought by non-practicing entities whose principal business model is to secure patent licensing revenue, but we may also be subject to demands from inventors, competitors or other patent holders who may seek licensing revenue, lost profits and/or an injunction preventing us from engaging in certain activities, including selling certain products or services. In addition, we are subject to proceedings, investigations and audits by federal, state, international, national, provincial and local authorities, including as a result of our significant sales to governmental entities. For example, a subsidiary of the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand dated September 20, 2021 from the US Department of Justice (“DOJ”) in connection with a False Claims Act investigation. The DOJ has requested information related to teaming agreements with OEMs. 17 We also are subject to audits by various partners, group purchasing organizations and customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, we are subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. Current and future litigation, infringement claims, governmental proceedings and investigations, audits or indemnification claims that we face may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management regardless of the outcome. In addition, these matters could lead to increased costs or interruptions of our normal business operations. Litigation, infringement claims, governmental proceedings and investigations, audits or indemnification claims involve uncertainties and the eventual outcome of any such matter could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Failure to comply with complex and evolving laws and regulations applicable to our operations or failure to meet stakeholder expectations on environmental sustainability and corporate responsibility matters could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. Our global operations span a variety of legal regimes, subjecting us to numerous complex, diverse, evolving and at times potentially inconsistent laws and regulations in a number of areas, including labor and employment, advertising, e-commerce, tax, trade, import and export controls, economic and trade sanctions, anti-corruption, data privacy and security requirements, competition, climate, environmental and health and safety. The evaluation of and compliance with these laws, regulations and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and may have other adverse impacts on our business, results of operations or cash flows, the risk of which will be heightened as we expand the products and services we offer, expand into new markets and channels and expand internationally. For example, we may be subject to increased costs and use of operational resources associated with complying with any new climate-related laws and regulations. Additionally, the hardware, software and services we offer increasingly utilize new and evolving technologies such as artificial intelligence (“AI”), which presents risks and challenges that could result in legal liability. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no guarantee against coworkers, contractors or agents violating such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. Additionally, there is increased focus by stakeholders on environmental sustainability and corporate responsibility matters, including climate change response, packaging and waste reduction, energy consumption, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Our disclosure on these matters and our failure, or perceived failure, to meet our commitments or otherwise effectively address these matters may erode customer trust or confidence, particularly if they receive considerable publicity or result in litigation, and could have a negative impact on our business. As a public company, we also are subject to increasingly complex public disclosure, corporate governance and accounting requirements that increase compliance costs and require significant management focus. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2021, we had $6.9 billion of total debt outstanding and $448 million of obligations outstanding under our inventory financing agreements, and the ability to borrow an additional $1.0 billion under our senior unsecured revolving loan facility (the “Revolving Loan Facility”). Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments on our and our subsidiaries’ debt, which reduces the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • requiring us to comply with restrictive covenants in our senior credit facilities and indentures, which limit the manner in which we conduct our business; • making it more difficult for us to obtain vendor financing from our vendor partners, including original equipment manufacturers and software publishers; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the industry in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our less-leveraged competitors; • increasing our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and 18 • limiting our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements and increasing our cost of borrowing. Restrictive covenants under our senior credit facilities and, to a lesser degree, our indentures may adversely affect our operations and liquidity. Our senior credit facilities and, to a lesser degree, our indentures contain, and any future indebtedness of ours may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • receive dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • pledge our assets as collateral; • merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • engage in sale leaseback transactions. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. A breach of any of these covenants or any of the other restrictive covenants would result in a default under our senior credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior credit facilities, the lenders: • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; or • could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. The acceleration of amounts outstanding under our senior credit facilities would likely trigger an event of default under our existing indentures. If the lenders under our senior credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our senior credit facilities and our other indebtedness or the ability to borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. We will be required to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness and, if not successful, we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our outstanding long-term debt will impose significant cash interest payment obligations on us and, accordingly, we will have to generate significant cash flow from operating activities to fund our debt service obligations. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources” included elsewhere in this report. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness, or revise or delay our strategic plan. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions on terms that are favorable to us or at all, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or satisfy our capital requirements, or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements, including our senior credit facilities and indentures. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. 19 In addition, major debt rating agencies regularly evaluate our debt based on a number of factors. We may not be able to maintain our existing ratings, and the failure to do so could increase the cost of servicing certain of our existing indebtedness, and make it more difficult to raise debt financing on favorable terms in the future. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: • our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; • the lenders under our Revolving Loan Facility could terminate their commitments to lend us money; and • we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more debt, including secured debt. This could further increase the risks associated with our leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our senior credit facilities and indentures do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks associated with our level of indebtedness described above, including our possible inability to service our debt, will increase. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.0 billion available for additional borrowing under our Revolving Loan Facility. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Certain of our borrowings, primarily borrowings under our senior credit facilities, are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.7 billion of variable rate debt outstanding. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Although we have entered into interest rate cap agreements on our term loan facility to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot assure you we will be able to enter into interest rate cap agreements in the future on acceptable terms or that such caps or the caps we have in place now will be effective. The London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) is being discontinued as a floating rate benchmark, which may cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated consequences. Certain of our credit facilities, including our term loan facility and our Revolving Loan Facility, have variable interest rates using LIBOR as a benchmark rate, and we have entered into interest rate cap agreements with respect to the term loan facility that are based on LIBOR. As of December 31, 2021, $1.7 billion of our total debt outstanding bears interest at variable interest rates using LIBOR as a benchmark rate. The LIBOR and certain other interest “benchmarks” are subject to regulatory guidance and/or reform that could cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated consequences. The United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates the LIBOR administrator, previously announced that all LIBOR settings will either cease to be provided or no longer be representative (i) after December 31, 2021, in the case of the one-week and two-month US dollar LIBOR tenors and all tenors of non-US dollar LIBOR, and (ii) after June 30, 2023, in the case of the overnight and one-, three-, six-, and 12-month US dollar LIBOR tenors. Additionally, the US Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large US financial institutions, announced the replacement of US dollar LIBOR with a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by US Treasury securities, called the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). SOFR has a limited history, having been first published in April 2018. The future performance of SOFR, and SOFR-based reference rates, cannot be predicted based on SOFR’s history or otherwise. Future levels of SOFR may bear little or no relation to historical levels of SOFR, LIBOR or other rates. If LIBOR ceases to exist, interest rates on our current or future debt obligations and hedging instruments may be adversely affected and we may need to renegotiate the agreements governing such obligations or instruments. Although the agreements governing our senior credit facilities contain provisions for transition to new “benchmark” rates if LIBOR is discontinued or cannot be determined, any new “benchmark” may perform differently than LIBOR or cause other unanticipated consequences, which could adversely affect our interest expense, related debt obligations and our interest rate cap agreements. 20 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile and may decline regardless of our operating performance, and holders of our common stock could lose a significant portion of their investment. The market price for our common stock may be volatile. Our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock at or above the price at which they purchased such shares, due to fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, which may be caused by a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the following: • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our common stock, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of our common stock; • downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our common stock; • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole; • investors’ perceptions of our prospects; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • changes in key personnel. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies, including companies in our industry. In the past, securities class action litigation has followed periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs, and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The number of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock and depress our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that may be considered favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of the Company more difficult without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend, or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; • generally prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that special meetings of the stockholders can only be called by or at the direction of our Board of Directors pursuant to a written resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of the majority of the total number of directors that the Company would have if there were no vacancies; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • provide that our Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prevent us from engaging in a business combination with a person who acquires at least 15% of our common stock for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such common stock, unless Board or stockholder approval is obtained prior to the acquisition. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the Company, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions could also discourage 21 proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions our stockholders desire. We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay dividends on our common stock or repurchase any of our common stock under our share repurchase program, and our indebtedness and certain tax considerations could limit our ability to continue to pay dividends on, or make share repurchases of, our common stock. If we do not continue to pay dividends, you may not receive any return on investment unless you are able to sell your common stock for a price greater than your purchase price. We expect to continue to pay a cash dividend on our common stock. However, any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Any determination to pay dividends on, or repurchase, shares of our common stock in the future will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, business prospects, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, any potential indebtedness we may incur, our target leverage ratio, restrictions imposed by applicable law, tax considerations and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on, or repurchase, shares of our common stock will be limited by restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders and on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us, in each case, under the terms of our current and any future agreements governing our indebtedness. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay a dividend at the current rate or at all or that we will continue to repurchase shares of our common stock. If we do not pay dividends in the future, realization of a gain on your investment will depend entirely on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. We are a holding company and rely on dividends, distributions and other payments, advances and transfers of funds from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own. As a result, we are largely dependent upon cash dividends and distributions and other transfers from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. The agreements governing the indebtedness of our subsidiaries impose restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us. The deterioration of the earnings from, or other available assets of, our subsidiaries for any reason could also limit or impair their ability to pay dividends or other distributions to us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the terms “we,” “us,” “the Company,” “our,” “CDW” and similar terms refer to CDW Corporation and its subsidiaries. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Overview CDW Corporation, a Fortune 500 company and member of the S&P 500 Index, is a leading multi-brand provider of information technology (“IT”) solutions to small, medium and large business, government, education and healthcare customers in the US, the UK and Canada. Our broad array of offerings ranges from discrete hardware and software products to integrated IT solutions and services that include on-premise, hybrid and cloud capabilities across hybrid infrastructure, digital experience and security. We are vendor, technology, and consumption model “agnostic”, with a solutions portfolio including more than 100,000 products and services from more than 1,000 leading and emerging brands. Our solutions are delivered in physical, virtual and cloud-based environments through approximately 9,900 customer-facing coworkers, including sellers, highly-skilled technology specialists and advanced service delivery engineers. We are a leading sales channel partner for many original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), software publishers and cloud providers (collectively, our “vendor partners”), whose products we sell or include in the solutions we offer. We provide our vendor partners with a cost-effective way to reach customers and deliver a consistent brand experience through our established end-market coverage, technical expertise and extensive customer access. On December 1, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Sirius Computer Solutions, Inc. (“Sirius”). The aggregate consideration paid, net of cash acquired, at the closing of the acquisition was approximately $2.4 billion, which is subject to the finalization of customary closing adjustments. Sirius is a leading provider of secure, mission-critical technology-based solutions and is one of the largest IT solutions integrators in the United States, leveraging its services-led approach, broad portfolio of hybrid infrastructure solutions, and deep technical expertise of its 2,600 coworkers to support corporate and public customers. This strategic acquisition will enhance our breadth and depth of services and solutions offerings. We have three reportable segments, Corporate, Small Business and Public. Our Corporate segment primarily serves US private sector business customers with more than 250 employees. Our Small Business segment primarily serves US private sector business customers with up to 250 employees. Our Public segment is comprised of government agencies and education and healthcare institutions in the US. We also have two other operating segments: CDW UK and CDW Canada, each of which do not meet the reportable segment quantitative thresholds and, accordingly, are included in an all other category (“Other”). The financial results of Sirius have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the results of our Corporate, Small Business and Public segments since the date of the acquisition. We may sell all or only select products that our vendor partners offer. Each vendor partner agreement provides for specific terms and conditions, which may include one or more of the following: product return privileges, price protection policies, purchase discounts and vendor incentive programs, such as purchase or sales rebates and cooperative advertising reimbursements. We also resell software for major software publishers. Our agreements with software publishers allow the end-user customer to acquire software or licensed products and services. In addition to helping our customers determine the best software solutions for their needs, we help them manage their software agreements, including warranties and renewals. A significant portion of our advertising and marketing expenses are reimbursed through cooperative advertising programs with our vendor partners. These programs are at the discretion of our vendor partners and are typically tied to sales or other commitments to be met by us within a specified period of time. For a discussion of results for the year ended December 31, 2020, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2021. 27 Trends and Key Factors Affecting our Financial Performance We believe the following key factors may have a meaningful impact on our business performance, influencing our ability to generate sales and achieve our targeted financial and operating results: • General economic conditions are a key factor affecting our results as they impact our customers’ willingness to spend on information technology. This is particularly the case for our Corporate and Small Business customers, as their purchases tend to reflect confidence in their business prospects, which are driven by their discrete perceptions of business and general economic conditions. Additionally, changes in trade policy and product constraints from suppliers could have an adverse impact on our business. • The global spread of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic continues to create macroeconomic uncertainty, volatility and disruption, including supply constraints. The supply constraints are being caused by component availability and labor and logistical disruptions, resulting in extended lead times, unpredictability and higher costs. In 2021, customer top priorities have been digital transformation, security, hybrid and cloud solutions, client devices, and preparing for workers to return to the office and enhancing remote enablement capabilities as hybrid environments become the future work model. We have orchestrated solutions by leveraging client devices, accessories, collaboration tools, security, software and hybrid and cloud offerings to help customers build these capabilities and achieve their objectives. • Changes in spending policies, budget priorities and funding levels, including current and future stimulus packages, are key factors influencing the purchasing levels of Government, Healthcare and Education customers. In 2021, Education customers continued to prioritize investments towards equity and access for all students and enhancing the in-classroom and hybrid experiences. In addition, Healthcare customers resumed projects that were paused during the pandemic as budget certainty improved as more patients returned to elective procedures. Government customers focused on multiyear budget planning and had contracting delays in several large contracts. As the duration and ongoing economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic remain uncertain, current and future budget priorities and funding levels for Government, Healthcare and Education customers may be adversely affected. • Technology trends drive customer purchasing behaviors in the market. Current technology trends are focused on delivering greater flexibility and efficiency, as well as designing IT securely. These trends are driving customer adoption of solutions such as those delivered via cloud, software defined architectures and hybrid on-premise and off-premise combinations, as well as the evolution of the IT consumption model to more “as a service” offerings, including Device as a Service and managed services. Technology trends could also change as customers consider the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on their operations. Key Business Metrics We monitor a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis in order to track the progress of our business and make adjustments as necessary. We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include average daily sales, gross margin, operating margin, Net income, Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income, Net sales growth on a constant currency basis, Net income per diluted share, Non-GAAP net income per diluted share, free cash flow, return on working capital, Cash and cash equivalents, net working capital, cash conversion cycle and debt levels including available credit. These measures and ratios are closely monitored by management, so that actions can be taken, as necessary, in order to achieve set standards and objectives. In this section, we discuss Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis, which are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance. Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business. Certain non-GAAP financial measures are also used to determine certain components of performance-based compensation. For the definitions of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis and reconciliations to the most directly comparable US GAAP measure, see “Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations.” 28 The results of certain key business metrics are as follows: (1)    There were 254 selling days for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019. (2)    Defined as Total debt minus Cash and cash equivalents. (3)    Cash conversion cycle is defined as days of sales outstanding in Accounts receivable and certain receivables due from vendors plus days of supply in Merchandise inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in Accounts payable and Accounts payable-inventory financing, based on a rolling three-month average. 29 Results of Operations Results of operations, in dollars and as a percentage of Net sales are as follows: Net sales Net sales by segment, in dollars and as a percentage of total Net sales, and the year-over-year dollar and percentage change in Net sales are as follows: (1) There were 254 selling days for both the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Total Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $2,353 million, or 12.7%, to $20,821 million, compared to the prior year. This increase includes $197 million of Net sales from the acquisition of Sirius which closed on December 1, 2021. The Net sales impact from the acquisition of Sirius is included in our Corporate, Small Business and Public segments. Net sales growth was primarily driven by Corporate, Education and Small Business customers and the results from the UK and Canadian operations included in Other, partially offset by lower Net sales to Government customers. Corporate segment Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $1,334 million, or 19.5%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by hybrid work resulting in higher demand for notebooks/mobile devices, video and accessories. Additionally, Corporate customers continued to prioritize digital transformation, hybrid and cloud and security, driving growth in solutions categories, including servers and software. Small Business segment Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by $473 million, or 33.9%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Customers continued to focus on remote enablement as Net sales growth was driven by notebooks/mobile devices, video and accessories. 30 Public segment Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $46 million, or 0.6%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by growth in Education and Healthcare customers, offset by lower Net sales with Government customers. Net sales to Education customers increased 18.8% primarily driven by integrated solutions, including notebooks/mobile devices, video, accessories and services. Schools continued to prioritize equity and access to learning and investing in the interactive learning experience for both the classroom and dorm room. Net sales to Healthcare customers increased 12.8% primarily driven by desktops, software, notebooks/mobile devices, servers, video and services. Healthcare customers saw patients returning for elective procedures which increased confidence in budgets, enabling delayed projects to restart. Net sales to Government customers decreased 27.6%. Government decreased in most transactional and solutions categories primarily driven by several one-time activities in 2020 that did not reoccur in 2021, including the Census project, timebound stimulus funding and device refreshes related to large customer contracts. In addition, Government had contracting delays across certain large contracts in 2021. Net sales in Other, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $501 million, or 24.0%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. UK and Canadian Net sales increased as a result of the economic recovery from 2020 and increased customer confidence. Customers in the UK and Canada remained focused on hybrid work and learning as Net sales growth was driven by notebooks/mobile devices, video and software. The impact of foreign currency exchange increased Other Net sales by approximately 810 basis points, primarily due to the favorable translation of the Canadian dollar and British pound to the US dollar. Gross profit Gross profit increased $359 million, or 11.2%, to $3,569 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $3,210 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of Net sales, Gross profit margin decreased 30 basis points to 17.1% for the year ended December 31, 2021. This decrease in Gross profit margin was primarily due to lower product margin and higher margin configuration services in the prior year, partially offset by an increase in the mix of net service contract revenue, primarily Software as a Service, increase in Net sales and related margins on professional services. Selling and administrative expenses Selling and administrative expenses increased $119 million, or 5.8%, to $2,150 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $2,031 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to higher payroll expenses consistent with higher Gross profit, higher coworker count and higher performance-based compensation consistent with higher attainment against financial goals, and higher acquisition and integration costs, partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization and lower bad debt expense. Total coworker count was 13,924, up 3,942 from 9,982 at December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in customer-facing coworkers as a result of our recent acquisitions and an increase in new hires during 2021. As a percentage of total Net sales, Selling and administrative expenses decreased 70 basis points to 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 11.0% for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lower intangible asset amortization, lower bad debt expense and lower payroll expenses as a percentage of Net sales. Operating income Operating income by segment, in dollars and as a percentage of Net sales, and the year-over-year percentage change was as follows: * Not meaningful 31 (1) Segment operating income includes the segment’s direct operating income, allocations for certain Headquarters’ costs, allocations for income and expenses from logistics services, certain inventory adjustments and volume rebates and cooperative advertising from vendors. (2) Includes the financial results for our other operating segments, CDW UK and CDW Canada, which do not meet the reportable segment quantitative thresholds. (3) Includes Headquarters’ function costs that are not allocated to the segments. Operating income was $1,419 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $240 million, or 20.3%, compared to $1,179 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Operating income increased primarily due to higher Gross profit dollars, lower intangible asset amortization and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by higher payroll expenses consistent with higher Gross profit, higher coworker count, higher performance-based compensation consistent with higher attainment against financial goals, and higher acquisition and integration expenses. Total operating margin percentage increased 40 basis points to 6.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021, from 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lower intangible asset amortization, lower bad debt expense and lower payroll as a percentage of Net sales, partially offset by lower Gross profit margin and higher acquisition and integration expenses as a percentage of Net sales. Corporate segment Operating income was $697 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $207 million, or 42.4%, compared to $490 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Corporate segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher Gross profit and lower intangible asset amortization, partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Corporate segment operating margin percentage increased 130 basis points to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2021, from 7.2% for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lower intangible asset amortization and lower payroll expense as a percentage of Net sales. Small Business segment Operating income was $168 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $69 million, or 69.4%, compared to $99 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Small Business segment Operating income increased primarily due to higher Gross profit and lower intangible asset amortization, partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Small Business segment operating margin percentage increased 190 basis points to 9.0% for the year ended December 31, 2021, from 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lower intangible asset amortization and lower payroll expenses as a percentage of Net sales. Public segment Operating income was $607 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, a decrease of $71 million, or 10.5%, compared to $678 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Public segment Operating income decreased primarily due to higher payroll expenses and lower Gross profit dollars. Public segment operating margin percentage decreased 90 basis points to 7.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021, from 8.3% for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher payroll expenses and higher margin configuration services in the prior year. Other Operating income, which is comprised of results from our UK and Canadian operations, was $116 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $50 million, or 75.5%, compared to $66 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Other Operating income increased primarily due to higher Gross profit and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by higher payroll expenses. Other operating margin percentage increased 130 basis points to 4.5% for the year ended December 31, 2021, from 3.2% for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to lower expenses, including payroll expenses, bad debt expense, intangible asset amortization, integration costs and other selling and administrative expenses, partially offset by lower product margin. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net in 2021 was $151 million, a decrease of $4 million, compared to $155 million in 2020. This decrease was primarily driven by lower effective interest rates in 2021 compared to 2020, partially offset by additional interest expense from the $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued on December 1, 2021, the net proceeds of which were used to fund the acquisition of Sirius. Other income (expense), net During the year ended December 31, 2021, we sold all ownership interests in an equity method investment and recognized a $36 million gain. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed the August 2020 senior notes refinancing and recorded a $27 million Net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt. 32 Income tax expense Income tax expense was $309 million in 2021, compared to $214 million in 2020. The effective income tax rate, expressed by calculating income tax expense as a percentage of Income before income taxes, was 23.8% and 21.3% for 2021 and 2020, respectively. For 2021, the effective tax rate differed from the US federal statutory rate primarily due to state and local income taxes and a discrete deferred tax expense as a result of an increase in the UK corporate tax rate effective in 2023, partially offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. For 2020, the effective tax rate differed from the US federal statutory rate primarily due to state and local income taxes and a discrete deferred tax expense as a result of an increase in the UK corporate tax rate, largely offset by excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation and tax benefits associated with global intangible low taxed income and nondeductible expenses. The 2021 effective tax rate was higher than 2020 primarily due to certain tax benefits incurred in the prior year with no similar activity in the current year and a less favorable tax rate impact of excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation. Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations We have included reconciliations of Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 below. Non-GAAP operating income excludes, among other things, charges related to the amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, equity-based compensation and the associated payroll taxes, and acquisition and integration expenses. Non-GAAP operating income margin is defined as Non-GAAP operating income as a percentage of Net sales. Non-GAAP income before income taxes and Non-GAAP net income exclude, among other things, charges related to acquisition-related intangible asset amortization, equity-based compensation, acquisition and integration expenses, and the associated tax effects of each. Net sales growth on a constant currency basis is defined as Net sales growth excluding the impact of foreign currency translation on Net sales compared to the prior period. Non-GAAP operating income, Non-GAAP operating income margin, Non-GAAP income before income taxes, Non-GAAP net income and Net sales growth on a constant currency basis are considered non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company’s performance or financial condition that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally included or excluded in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with US GAAP. Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures. We believe these measures provide analysts, investors and management with helpful information regarding the underlying operating performance of our business, as they remove the impact of items that management believes are not reflective of underlying operating performance. Management uses these measures to evaluate period-over-period performance as management believes they provide a more comparable measure of the underlying business. Certain non-GAAP financial measures are also used to determine certain components of performance-based compensation. Non-GAAP operating income Non-GAAP operating income was $1,645 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $240 million, or 17.1%, compared to $1,405 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. As a percentage of Net sales, Non-GAAP operating income was 7.9% and 7.6% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. 33 (1) Includes amortization expense for acquisition-related intangible assets, primarily customer relationships, customer contracts and trade names. Non-GAAP net income Non-GAAP net income was $1,119 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $165 million, or 17.2%, compared to $954 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. (1) Income tax on non-GAAP adjustments includes excess tax benefits associated with equity-based compensation. (2) Includes amortization expense for acquisition-related intangible assets, primarily customer relationships, customer contracts and trade names. Net sales growth on a constant currency basis Net sales increased $2,353 million, or 12.7%, to $20,821 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $18,468 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of foreign currency translation, increased $2,207 million, or 11.9%. (1) There were 254 selling days for both the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. (2) Represents the effect of translating Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 of CDW UK and CDW Canada at the average exchange rates applicable in 2021. Seasonality While we have not historically experienced significant seasonality throughout the year, sales in our Corporate segment, which primarily serves US private sector business customers with more than 250 employees, are typically higher in the fourth quarter than in other quarters due to customers spending their remaining technology budget dollars at the end of the year. Additionally, sales in our Public segment have historically been higher in the third quarter than in other quarters primarily due to the buying patterns of the federal government and education customers. Since the onset of the pandemic, we have experienced variability compared to historic seasonality trends. As uncertainty due to COVID-19 remains, seasonality may continue to be different than historical experience. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We finance our operations and capital expenditures with internally generated cash from operations and borrowings under our revolving loan facility. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.0 billion of availability for borrowings under our revolving loan facility. Our liquidity and borrowing plans are established to align with our financial and strategic planning processes and 34 ensure we have the nece ssary funding to meet our operating commitments, which primarily include the purchase of inventory, payroll and general expenses. We also take into consideration our overall capital allocation strategy, which includes dividend payments, assessment of debt levels, acquisitions and share repurchases. We believe we have adequate sources of liquidity and funding available for at least the next year; however, there are a number of factors that may negatively impact our av ailable sources of funds. The amount of cash generated from operations will be dependent upon factors such as the successful execution of our business plan, general economic conditions and working capital management. Our material contractual obligations consist of debt and related interest payments and operating leases. See Note 9 (Debt) and Note 11 (Leases) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding future maturities of debt and operating leases. Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements During the fourth quarter of 2021, we entered into a commitment letter for a $2.5 billion senior unsecured 364-day bridge loan facility (the “Bridge Facility”), which would have been used in the event permanent financing was not obtained on or before completing the acquisition of Sirius. In lieu of borrowing under the Bridge Facility, on December 1, 2021, we obtained permanent financing through the issuance of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.670% Senior Notes due 2026, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.276% Senior Notes due 2028 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.569% Senior Notes due 2031. The Bridge Facility was automatically terminated upon completing the acquisition of Sirius without using the Bridge Facility. Also during the fourth quarter of 2021, we entered into the Revolving Loan Facility, a new five-year $1.6 billion senior unsecured revolving loan facility, which replaced the senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”). On the same date, we also entered into the Term Loan Facility, a new five-year $1.4 billion senior unsecured term loan facility, which replaced the senior secured term loan facility. During the first quarter of 2021, we amended, extended and increased the size of the ABL Facility, prior to its extinguishment during the fourth quarter. Simultaneously, we paid off the remaining principal amount on the variable rate CDW UK term loan by drawing on the ABL Facility. As of December 31, 2021, we had total unsecured indebtedness of $6.9 billion. At December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the covenants under our various credit agreements and indentures. For additional information regarding our debt and refinancing activities, see Note 9 (Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. For additional information regarding the acquisition of Sirius, see Note 3 (Acquisitions) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventory Financing Agreements We have entered into agreements with certain financial intermediaries to obtain more favorable terms on purchases of inventory from various suppliers under certain terms and conditions. These amounts are classified separately as Accounts payable-inventory financing on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We do not incur any interest expense associated with these agreements as balances are paid when they are due. For additional information, see Note 7 (Inventory Financing Agreements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Share Repurchase Program During 2021, we repurchased 8.7 million shares of our common stock for $1,500 million under the previously announced share repurchase program. For additional information, refer to Note 12 (Stockholders’ Equity) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 35 Dividends A summary of 2021 dividend activity for our common stock is as follows: On February 9, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock of $0.500 per share. T he dividend will be paid on March 10, 2022 to all stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 25, 2022. The payment of any fu ture dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, business prospects, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, any potential indebtedness we may incur, restrictions imposed by applicable law, tax considerations and other factors that our Board of Directors deems relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock will be limited by restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders and on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to us, in each case, under the terms of our current and any future agreements governing our indebtedness. Cash Flows Cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities are as follows: (1) Includes expenditures for revenue generating assets 36 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities are as follows: (1) Includes items such as depreciation and amortization, equity-based compensation expense, amortization of deferred financing costs, deferred income taxes and net loss on extinguishment of long-term debt. (2) The change is primarily due to higher Accounts receivable balance in Public segment. (3) The change is primarily due to higher customer-driven stocking positions in 2021. (4) The change is primarily due to mixing out of vendors with extended payment terms in 2021 and higher inventory purchases at the end of 2020, partially offset by timing of payments at the end of 2021. (5) The change is primarily due to higher contract liabilities in 2021, partially offset by a decrease in accrued compensation, a decrease in lease incentives and an increase in receivables from vendors in 2021. In order to manage our working capital and operating cash needs, we monitor our cash conversion cycle, defined as days of sales outstanding in accounts receivable plus days of supply in inventory minus days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable, based on a rolling three-month average. Components of our cash conversion cycle are as follows: (1) Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of Accounts receivable, net at the end of the period, divided by average daily Net sales for the same three-month period. Also incorporates components of other miscellaneous receivables. (2) Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of Merchandise inventory at the end of the period divided by average daily Cost of sales for the same three-month period. (3) Represents the rolling three-month average of the combined balance of Accounts payable-trade, excluding cash overdrafts, and Accounts payable-inventory financing at the end of the period divided by average daily Cost of sales for the same three-month period. The cash conversion cycle increased to 24 days at December 31, 2021, compared to 17 days at December 31, 2020. DSO, DIO and DPO increased 8 days, 3 days and 4 days, respectively. The increase in DSO was primarily driven by higher Accounts receivable balance in Public segment and increased net service contract revenue, such as software as a service and warranties. The increase in net service contract revenue also results in a favorable impact on DPO. DPO further benefited from favorability in timing of payments at the end of 2021. Additionally, DIO increased due to higher customer and strategic stocking positions in 2021 relative to 2020. 37 Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased $2,569 million in 2021 compared to 2020. The increase was primarily due to the acquisitions of Sirius, Amplified IT LLC and Focal Point Data Risk LLC, partially offset by lower capital expenditures and proceeds from the sale of an equity method investment. For additional information regarding the acquisitions, see Note 3 (Acquisitions) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased $694 million in 2021 compared to 2020. The increase was primarily due to the issuance of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued on December 1, 2021 which was used to fund the acquisition of Sirius and increased borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, partially offset by higher share repurchases and the mixing out of vendors with extended payment terms under our inventory financing arrangements. For additional information regarding the inventory financing and debt activities, see Note 7 (Inventory Financing Agreements) and Note 9 (Debt) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Issuers and Guarantors of Debt Securities Each series of our outstanding unsecured senior notes (the “Notes”) are issued by CDW LLC and CDW Finance Corporation (the “Issuers”) and are guaranteed by CDW Corporation (“Parent”) and certain of each CDW LLC’s direct and indirect, 100% owned, domestic subsidiaries (the “Guarantor Subsidiaries” and, together with Parent, the “Guarantors”). All guarantees by Parent and the Guarantors are joint and several, and full and unconditional; provided that guarantees by the Guarantor Subsidiaries are subject to certain customary release provisions contained in the indentures governing the Notes. The Notes and the related guarantees are the Issuers’ and the Guarantors’ senior unsecured obligations and are: • structurally subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries and • rank equal in right of payment with all of the Issuers’ and the Guarantors’ existing and future unsecured senior debt. The following tables set forth Balance Sheet information as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, and Statement of Operations information for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 for the accounts of the Issuers and the accounts of the Guarantors (the “Obligor Group”). The financial information of the Obligor Group is presented on a combined basis and the intercompany balances and transactions between the Obligor Group have been eliminated. Balance Sheet Information 38 Statements of Operations Information Commitments and Contingencies The information set forth in Note 16 (Commitments and Contingencies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report is incorporated herein by reference. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with US GAAP requires management to make use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Historically, we have not made significant changes to the methods for determining these estimates as our actual results have not differed materially from our estimates. We do not believe it is reasonably likely that the estimates and related assumptions will change materially in the foreseeable future; however, actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, and which require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and estimates addressed below. For additional information related to significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1 (Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition We sell some of our products and services as part of bundled contract arrangements containing multiple deliverables, which may include a combination of different products and services. Significant judgment may be required when determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together. For contracts consisting of multiple performance obligations, the total transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based upon its standalone selling price. Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. For certain performance obligations, we will use a combination of methods to estimate the standalone selling price based on recent transactions. When evidence from recent transactions is not available to confirm that the prices are representative of the standalone selling price, an expected cost plus margin approach is used. Additional judgment is required in determining whether we are the principal, and report revenues on a gross basis, or agent, and report revenues on a net basis. For each identified performance obligation in a transaction, we evaluate the facts and circumstances present to determine whether or not we control the specified good or service prior to transfer to the customer. This evaluation includes, but is not limited to, assessing indicators such as whether: (i) we are primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified goods or service, (ii) we have inventory risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to a customer and (iii) we have discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. When the evaluation indicates we control the specified good or service prior to transfer to the customer, we are acting as a principal. When the evaluation indicates we do not control the specified good or service prior transfer to the customer, we are acting as an agent. The nature of our contracts give rise to variable consideration in the form of volume rebates and sales returns and allowances. We estimate variable consideration at the most likely amount to which we expect to be entitled. The estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information that is reasonably available. 39 We recognize revenue on performance obligations when the customer obtains control over the specified good or service. That is, when the customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the benefits from the good or service. For the sale of hardware and software, this is generally upon delivery to the customer. As a result, we perform an analysis to estimate the amount of Net sales in-transit at the end of the period and adjust revenue and the related costs to reflect only what has been delivered to the customer. This analysis requires judgment whereby we perform an analysis of the estimated number of days of sales in-transit to customers at the end of each reporting period based on a weighted-average analysis of commercial delivery terms that include drop-shipment arrangements. Changes in delivery patterns may result in a different number of business days estimated to make this adjustment. Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. Goodwill is subject to periodic testing for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. We may elect to utilize a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. As part of our qualitative assessment, judgment is required in weighing the effect of various positive and negative factors that may affect the fair value. We consider various factors, including the excess of fair value over carrying value from the last quantitative test, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, the projected financial performance and actual financial performance compared to prior year projected financial performance. If we elect to bypass the qualitative assessment, or if indicators of impairment exist, a quantitative impairment test is performed. As part of the quantitative assessment, application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. Fair value of a reporting unit is determined by using a weighted combination of an income approach and a market approach, as this combination is considered the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, determination of our weighted average cost of capital, future market conditions and profitability of future business strategies. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. However, our past estimates of fair value would not have indicated an impairment when revised to include subsequent years’ actual results. We completed our annual impairment analysis during the fourth quarter of 2021. We performed a qualitative analysis for all reporting units and concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair values of all reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values and, therefore, did not result in an impairment. In 2020, we performed a quantitative analysis of goodwill impairment and determined that no impairment existed. Business combinations We allocate purchase price consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values as of the acquisition date. Determining the fair value of these assets and liabilities requires the use of significant estimates, particularly in valuing acquired intangible assets and Goodwill. Purchased intangible assets other than goodwill are initially recognized at fair value and amortized over their useful lives. We determine the fair value of purchased intangible using an income approach on an individual asset basis. The fair value measurements were primarily based on significant inputs that are not observable, which are categorized as a Level 3 measurement in the fair value hierarchy. The values assigned to consideration transferred, assets acquired and liabilities assumed may be adjusted during the measurement period as new information arises. We use the multi-period excess earnings method to determine the fair value of customer relationships. This method identifies the portion of revenue expected to be generated through repeat customers existing as of the valuation date and includes an attrition rate to account for the loss of customers over time. Critical estimates utilized in valuing customer relationships include estimated forecasted future revenue and EBITDA margin growth rates, customer attrition rates and market-participant discount rates. The assumptions we apply in forecasting future revenue and customer attrition rates is based on analysis of historical data, assessment of current and anticipated market conditions, estimated growth rates, and management plans. 40 Recent Accounting Pronouncements The information set forth in Note 2 (Recent Accounting Pronouncements) to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this report is incorporated herein by reference.