********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We operate in a complex market and regulatory environment that involves significant risks, many of which are beyond our direct control. Such risks, which could negatively affect our consolidated financial statements, fall primarily under the categories below: Risks related to market and financial factors primarily include: • the price of fuels, in particular the price of natural gas, which affects power prices, • the generation resources in the markets in which we operate, • our ability to operate our generating assets, our ability to access capital markets, and the impacts on our results of operations due to the global outbreak (pandemic) of the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19), • the impacts of on-going competition, and • emerging technologies and business models, including those related to climate change mitigation and transition to a low carbon economy. Risks related to legislative, regulatory, and legal factors primarily include changes to, and compliance with, the laws and regulations that govern: • the design of power markets, • the renewal of permits and operating licenses, • environmental and climate policy, including ZEC and CMC programs, and • tax policy. Risks related to operational factors primarily include: 28 • changes in the global climate could produce extreme weather events, which could put our facilities at risk, and such changes could also affect the levels and patterns of demand for energy and related services, • the safe, secure and effective operation of our nuclear facilities and the ability to effectively manage the associated decommissioning obligations, • the ability of energy transmission and distribution companies to maintain the reliability, resiliency and safety of their energy delivery systems, which could affect our ability to deliver energy to our customers and affect our operating costs, and • physical and cyber security risks for us as an owner-operator of generation facilities and as a participant in commodities trading. Risks related to our separation from Exelon primarily include: • challenges to achieving the benefits of separation, including limited business diversification, loss of economies of scale in sourcing goods and services, and the need to replicate certain services provided by Exelon (such as treasury, finance, human resources, investor relations, legal, information technology, security, and supply), which will require additional resources and expense, • performance by Exelon and us under the transaction agreements, including indemnification responsibilities tied to the allocation of businesses and liabilities, and • limitations on future capital-raising or strategic transactions during the two-year period following the distribution arising from the need to protect the tax-free treatment of the distribution. Risks related to our common stock primarily include: • following the separation, a trading market for our common stock will have only been initiated recently and our stock price may fluctuate significantly and • certain anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws that could have the effect of delaying or discouraging an acquisition of our company or a change in our management. Risks Related to Market and Financial Factors We are exposed to price volatility associated with both the wholesale and retail power markets and the procurement of nuclear and fossil fuels. We are exposed to commodity price risk for natural gas and the unhedged portion of our electricity generation supply portfolio. Our earnings and cash flows are therefore exposed to variability of spot and forward market prices in the markets in which we operate. Price of Fuels. The spot market price of electricity for each hour is generally determined by the marginal cost of supplying the next unit of electricity to the market during that hour. Thus, the market price of power is affected by the market price of the marginal fuel used to generate the electricity unit. Cost of Fuel. We depend on nuclear fuel and fossil fuels to operate most of our generating facilities. The supply markets for nuclear fuel, natural gas and oil are subject to price fluctuations, availability restrictions, counterparty default, and geopolitical risk including the current Russia Ukraine conflict and United States sanctions against Russia. Demand and Supply. The market price for electricity is also affected by changes in the demand for electricity and the available supply of electricity. Unfavorable economic conditions, milder than normal weather, and the growth of energy efficiency and demand response programs can depress demand. In addition, in some markets, the supply of electricity can exceed demand during some hours of the day, resulting in loss of revenue for base-load generating plants such as our nuclear plants. Conversely, new demand sources such as electrification of transportation could increase demand and change demand patterns. 29 Retail Competition. Our retail operations compete for customers in a competitive environment, which affects the margins we can earn and the volumes we are able to serve. In periods of sustained low natural gas and power prices and low market volatility, retail competitors can aggressively pursue market share because the barriers to entry can be low and wholesale generators (including us) use their retail operations to hedge generation output. The impact of sustained low market prices or depressed demand and over-supply could be emphasized given our concentration of base-load electric generating capacity within primarily two geographic market regions, namely the Midwest and the Mid-Atlantic. These impacts could adversely affect our ability to reduce debt and provide attractive shareholder returns. In addition, such conditions may no longer support the continued operation of certain generating facilities, which could adversely affect our financial statements primarily through accelerated depreciation and amortization expenses and one-time charges. See Note 7 — Early Plant Retirements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Market Designs. The wholesale markets vary from region to region with distinct rules, practices and procedures. Changes in these market rules, problems with rule implementation, or failure of any of these markets could adversely affect our business. In addition, a significant decrease in market participation could affect market liquidity and have a detrimental effect on market stability. We are potentially affected by emerging technologies that could over time affect or transform the energy industry. Advancements in power generation technology, including commercial and residential solar generation installations and commercial micro turbine installations, are improving the cost-effectiveness of customer self-supply of electricity. Improvements in energy storage technology, including batteries and fuel cells, could also better position customers to meet their around-the-clock electricity requirements. Improvements in energy efficiency of lighting, appliances, equipment and building materials will also affect energy consumption by customers. Changes in power generation, storage, and use technologies could have significant effects on customer behaviors and their energy consumption. These developments could affect the price of energy, levels of customer-owned generation, customer expectations and current business models and make portions of our generation facilities uneconomic prior to the end of their useful lives. These technologies could also result in further declines in commodity prices or demand for delivered energy. Each of these factors could affect our consolidated financial statements through, among other things, reduced operating revenues, increased operating and maintenance expenses, increased capital expenditures, and potential asset impairment charges or accelerated depreciation and decommissioning expenses over shortened remaining asset useful lives. Market performance and other factors could decrease the value of our NDT funds and employee benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding. Disruptions in the capital markets and their actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy could adversely affect the value of the investments held within our NDTs and employee benefit plan trusts. We have significant obligations in these areas and hold substantial assets in these trusts to meet those obligations. The asset values are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which could fall below our projected return rates. A decline in the market value of the NDT fund investments could increase our funding requirements to decommission our nuclear plants. A decline in the market value of the pension and OPEB plan assets would increase the funding requirements associated with our pension and OPEB plan obligations. Additionally, our pension and OPEB plan liabilities are sensitive to changes in interest rates. As interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially increasing benefit costs and funding requirements. Changes in demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions or changes to Social Security or Medicare eligibility requirements could also increase the costs and funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and OPEB plans. See Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations and Note 15 — Retirement Benefits of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We could be negatively affected by unstable capital and credit markets and increased volatility in commodity markets. 30 We rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States or abroad could negatively affect our ability to access the capital markets or draw on our bank revolving credit facilities. The banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. The inability to access capital markets or credit facilities, and longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, affect our ability to hedge effectively our generation portfolio, require changes to our hedging strategy in order to reduce collateral posting requirements, or require a reduction in discretionary uses of cash. In addition, we have exposure to worldwide financial markets, including Europe, Canada and Asia. Disruptions in these markets could reduce or restrict our ability to secure sufficient liquidity or secure liquidity at reasonable terms. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 26%, 19%, and 17% of our available credit facilities were with European, Canadian and Asian banks, respectively. The strength and depth of competition in energy markets depend heavily on active participation by multiple trading parties, which could be negatively affected by disruptions in the capital and credit markets and legislative and regulatory initiatives that could affect participants in commodities transactions. Reduced capital and liquidity and failures of significant institutions that participate in the energy markets could diminish the liquidity and competitiveness of energy markets that are important to our business. Perceived weaknesses in the competitive strength of the energy markets could lead to pressures for greater regulation of those markets or attempts to replace market structures with other mechanisms for the sale of power, including the requirement of long-term contracts. If we were to experience a downgrade in our credit ratings to below investment grade or otherwise fail to satisfy the credit standards in our agreements with our counterparties or regulatory financial requirements, we would be required to provide significant amounts of collateral that could affect our liquidity and we could experience higher borrowing costs. Our business is subject to credit quality standards that could require market participants to post collateral for their obligations upon a decline in ratings. We are also subject to certain financial requirements under NRC regulations as a result of our operation of nuclear power plants that could require us to provide cash collateral or surety bonds if those requirements are not met. One or both events could adversely affect available liquidity and, in the case of a rating downgrade, borrowing and credit support costs. See ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Credit Matters – Market Conditions and Security Ratings for additional information regarding the potential impacts of credit downgrades on our cash flows. If we fail to meet project-specific financing agreement requirements, we could experience an impairment or loss of the financed project. We have project-specific financing arrangements and must meet the requirements of various agreements relating to those financings. Failure to meet those arrangements could give rise to a project-specific financing default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the specific project being required to repay the associated debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated, and if such repayment were not made, the lenders or security holders would generally have broad remedies, including rights to foreclose against the project assets and related collateral or to force our subsidiaries in the project-specific financings to enter into bankruptcy proceedings. The impact of bankruptcy could result in the impairment of certain project assets. Our risk management policies cannot fully eliminate the risk associated with our commodity trading activities. Our asset-based power position as well as our power marketing, fuel procurement and other commodity trading activities expose us to risks of commodity price movements. We buy and sell energy and other products and enter financial contracts to manage risk and hedge various positions in our power generation portfolio. We are exposed to volatility in financial results for unhedged positions as well as the risk of ineffective hedges. We attempt to manage this exposure through enforcement of established risk limits and risk management 31 procedures. These risk limits and risk management procedures may not work as planned and cannot eliminate all risks associated with these activities. Even when our policies and procedures are followed, and decisions are made based on projections and estimates of future performance, results of operations could be diminished if the judgments and assumptions underlying those decisions prove to be incorrect. Factors, such as future prices and demand for power, natural gas and other energy-related commodities, become more difficult to predict and the calculations become less reliable the further into the future estimates are made. As a result, we cannot predict the impact that our commodity trading activities and risk management decisions could have on our consolidated financial statements. Financial performance and load requirements could be negatively affected if we are unable to effectively manage our power portfolio. A significant portion of our power portfolio is used to provide power under procurement contracts with load serving entities and other customers. To the extent portions of the power portfolio are not needed for that purpose, our output is sold in the wholesale power markets. To the extent our power portfolio is not sufficient to meet the requirements of our customers under the related agreements, we must purchase power in the wholesale power markets. Our financial results could be negatively affected if we are unable to meet cost-effectively the load requirements of our customers, manage our power portfolio or effectively address the changes in the wholesale power markets. The impacts of significant economic downturns could lead to decreased volumes delivered and increased expense for uncollectible customer balances. The impacts of significant economic downturns on our retail customers, such as less demand for products and services provided by commercial and industrial customers, could result in an increase in the number of uncollectible customer balances and related expense. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for additional information on our credit risk. Our results were negatively affected by the impacts of COVID-19. COVID-19 has disrupted economic activity in our markets and negatively affected our results of operations. The estimated impact of COVID-19 to our Net income was approximately $170 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and was not material for the year ended December 31, 2021. We cannot predict the full extent of the impacts of COVID-19, which will depend on, among other things, the rate, and public perceptions of the effectiveness, of vaccinations and rate of resumption of business activity. In addition, any future widespread pandemic or other local or global health issue could adversely affect customer demand and our ability to operate our generation assets. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Executive Overview for additional information. We could be negatively affected by the impacts of weather. Our operations are affected by weather, which impacts demand for electricity and natural gas, the price of energy commodities, as well as operating conditions. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, we could require greater resources to meet our contractual commitments. Extreme weather conditions or storms have affected the availability of generation and its transmission, limiting our ability to source or send power to where it is sold, and have also impaired the transportation of natural gas to our generating assets and our ability to supply natural gas to our customers. In addition, drought-like conditions limiting water usage could impact our ability to run certain generating assets at full capacity. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, could cause us to seek additional capacity at a time when markets are weak. Climate change projections suggest increases to summer temperature and humidity trends, as well as more erratic precipitation and storm patterns over the long-term in the areas where we have generation assets. The frequency in which weather conditions emerge outside the current expected climate norms could contribute to the weather-related impacts discussed above. 32 Beginning on February 15, 2021, our Texas-based generating assets within the ERCOT market, specifically Colorado Bend II, Wolf Hollow II, and Handley, experienced periodic outages as a result of historically severe cold weather conditions. The estimated impact to our Net income arising from these market and weather conditions for the year ended December 31, 2021 was a reduction of approximately $ 800 million. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long-lived assets and other assets could become impaired. Long-lived assets – principally, generation assets – represent the single largest asset class on our statement of financial position. We evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets to be held and used whenever events or circumstances indicating a potential impairment may exist. Factors such as, but not limited to, the business climate, including current and future energy and market conditions, environmental regulation, and the condition of assets are considered. An impairment would require us to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to fair value through a non-cash charge to expense by the amount of the impairment. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Note 8 — Property, Plant, and Equipment and Note 12 — Asset Impairments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on long-lived asset impairments. We could incur substantial costs in the event of non-performance by third-parties under indemnification agreements, or when we have guaranteed their performance. We are exposed to other credit risks in the power markets that are beyond our control. We have entered into various agreements with counterparties that require those counterparties to reimburse us and hold us harmless against specified obligations and claims. To the extent that any of these counterparties are affected by deterioration in their creditworthiness or the agreements are otherwise determined to be unenforceable, we could be held responsible for the obligations. We have issued indemnities to third parties regarding environmental or other matters in connection with purchases and sales of assets, including several of the Exelon utilities in connection with our absorption of their former generating assets. We could incur substantial costs to fulfill our obligations under these indemnities. We have issued guarantees for the performance of third parties, which obligate us to perform if the third parties do not perform. In the event of non-performance by those third parties, we could incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations under these guarantees. In the bilateral markets, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe us money or are obligated to purchase energy or fuel from us, will not perform under their obligations for operational or financial reasons. In the event the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we could be forced to purchase or sell energy or fuel in the wholesale markets at less favorable prices and incur additional losses, to the extent amounts, if any, were already paid to the counterparties. In the spot markets, we are exposed to risk as a result of default sharing mechanisms that exist within certain markets, primarily RTOs and ISOs. We are also a party to agreements with entities in the energy sector that have experienced rating downgrades or other financial difficulties. In addition, our retail sales subject us to credit risk through competitive electricity and natural gas supply activities to serve commercial and industrial companies, governmental entities and residential customers. Retail credit risk results when customers default on their contractual obligations. This risk represents the loss that could be incurred due to the nonpayment of a customer’s account balance, as well as the loss from the resale of energy previously committed to serve the customer. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the February 2021 extreme cold weather event and Texas-based generating asset outages. Risks Related to Legislative, Regulatory, and Legal Factors Federal or state legislative or regulatory actions could negatively affect the scope and functioning of the wholesale markets. 33 Approximately 65% of our generating resources, which include directly owned assets and capacity obtained through long-term contracts, are in the area encompassed by PJM. Our future results of operations are impacted by (1) FERC’s and PJM's level of support for policies that favor the preservation of competitive wholesale power markets and recognize the value of carbon-free electricity and resiliency and for states' energy objectives and policies and (2) the absence of material changes to market structures that would limit or otherwise negatively affect us. Market rules in other regions could affect us in a similar fashion. We could also be affected by state laws, regulations or initiatives to subsidize existing or new generation. FERC’s requirements for market-based rate authority could pose a risk that we may no longer satisfy FERC’s tests for market-based rates. A loss of market-based rate authority would mean that we would sell power at cost-based rates. Our business is highly regulated and could be negatively affected by legislative and/or regulatory actions. Substantial aspects of our business are subject to comprehensive Federal or state legislation and/or regulation. Our consolidated financial statements are significantly affected by our sales and purchases of commodities at market-based rates, as opposed to cost-based or other similarly regulated rates and Federal and state regulatory and legislative developments related to emissions, climate change, capacity market mitigation, energy price information, resilience, fuel diversity and RPS. Legislative and regulatory efforts in Illinois, New York and New Jersey to preserve the environmental attributes and reliability benefits of zero-emission nuclear-powered generating facilities through ZEC and CMC programs are or could be subject to legal and regulatory challenges and, if overturned, could result in the early retirement of certain of our nuclear plants. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters and Note 7 — Early Plant Retirements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Fundamental changes in regulations or other adverse legislative actions affecting our business would require changes in our business planning models and operations. We cannot predict when or whether legislative and regulatory proposals could become law or what their effect would be. NRC actions could negatively affect the operations and profitability of our nuclear generating fleet. Regulatory risk. A change in the Atomic Energy Act or the applicable regulations or licenses could require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or could result in increased operating or decommissioning costs. Events at nuclear plants owned by others, as well as those owned by us, could cause the NRC to initiate such actions. Spent nuclear fuel storage. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF and the timing of that facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse us for these costs. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF could adversely affect our ability to decommission fully our nuclear units. We cannot predict whether a fee may be established or to what extent, in the future for SNF disposal. See Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We could be subject to higher costs and/or penalties related to mandatory reliability standards. We, as a user of the bulk power transmission system, are subject to mandatory reliability standards promulgated by NERC and enforced by FERC. The standards are based on the functions that need to be performed to ensure the bulk power system operates reliably and are guided by reliability and market interface principles. Compliance with or changes in the reliability standards could subject us to higher operating costs and/or increased capital expenditures. If we were found in non-compliance with the Federal and state mandatory reliability standards, we could be subject to remediation costs as well as sanctions, which could include substantial monetary penalties. 34 We could incur substantial costs to fulfill our obligations related to environmental and other matters. We are subject to extensive environmental regulation and legislation by local, state and Federal authorities. These laws and regulations affect the way we conduct our operations and make capital expenditures, including how we handle air and water emissions, hazardous and solid waste, and activities affecting surface waters, groundwater, and aquatic and other species. Violations of these requirements could subject us to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs for remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties and exposure to third parties’ claims for alleged health or property damages or operating restrictions to achieve compliance. In addition, we are subject to liability under these laws for the remediation costs for environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by us and of property contaminated by hazardous substances we generated or released. Also, we are currently involved in several proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been deposited and could be subject to additional proceedings in the future. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters and Regulation and Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We could be negatively affected by federal and state RPS and/or energy conservation legislation, along with energy conservation by customers. Changes to current state legislation or the development of Federal legislation that requires the use of clean, renewable and alternate fuel sources could significantly impact us. The impact could include reduced use of some of our generating facilities with effects on our revenues and costs. Federal and state legislation mandating the implementation of energy conservation programs and new energy consumption technologies could cause declines in customer energy consumption and lead to a decline in our revenues. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters and Regulation – Renewable and Clean Energy Standards and “We are potentially affected by emerging technologies that could over time affect or transform the energy industry” above for additional information. Our financial performance could be negatively affected by risks arising from our ownership and operation of hydroelectric facilities. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways, Federal lands or connected to the interstate electric grid. If FERC does not issue new operating licenses for our hydroelectric facilities in the future or a station cannot be operated through the end of its current operating license, our results of operations could be adversely affected by increased depreciation rates and accelerated future decommissioning costs, since depreciation rates and decommissioning cost estimates are currently based on the available license term for each facility. We could also lose revenue and incur increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet our supply commitments. In addition, conditions could be imposed as part of the license renewal process that could adversely affect operations, require a substantial increase in capital expenditures, result in increased operating costs or render the project uneconomic. Similar effects could result from a change in the Federal Power Act or the applicable regulations due to events at hydroelectric facilities owned by others, as well as those owned by us. We could be negatively affected by challenges to tax positions taken, tax law changes and the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions. We are required to make judgments in order to estimate our obligations to taxing authorities. These tax obligations include income, real estate, sales and use and employment-related taxes and ongoing appeal issues related to these tax matters. These judgments include reserves established for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken that could be subject to challenge by the tax authorities. See Note 1 — Significant Accounting Policies and Note 14 — Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Legal proceedings could result in a negative outcome, which we cannot predict. We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising from our business operations. The material ones are summarized in Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 35 Statements. Adverse outcomes in these proceedings could require significant expenditures, result in lost revenue, or restrict existing business activities. We could be subject to adverse publicity and reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to negative customer perception and could lead to increased regulatory oversight or other consequences. We could be the subject of public criticism. Adverse publicity of this nature could render public service commissions and other regulatory and legislative authorities less likely to view energy companies in a favorable light, and could cause those companies, including us, to be susceptible to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes, as well as increased regulatory oversight and more stringent legislative or regulatory requirements. Risks Related to Operational Factors We are subject to risks associated with climate change. Climate adaptation risk refers to risks to our facilities or operations that may result from changes in the physical climate, such as changes to temperatures, weather patterns and sea level rise. We periodically perform analyses to better understand how climate change could affect our facilities and operations. We primarily operate in the Midwest and East Coast of the United States, areas that have historically been prone to various types of severe weather events, and as such we have well-developed response and recovery programs based on these historical events. However, our physical facilities could be placed at greater risk of damage should changes in the global climate impact temperature and weather patterns, and result in more intense, frequent and extreme weather events, unprecedented levels of precipitation, sea level rise, increased surface water temperatures, and/or other effects. Over time, we may need to make additional investments to protect our facilities from physical climate-related risks. In addition, changes to the climate may impact levels and patterns of demand for energy and related services, which could affect our operations. Over time, we may need to make additional investments to adapt to changes in operational requirements as a result of climate change. Climate mitigation and transition risks include changes to the energy systems as a result of new technologies, changing customer expectations and/or voluntary GHG goals, as well as local, state or federal regulatory requirements intended to reduce GHG emissions. We also periodically perform analyses of potential pathways to reduce power sector and economy-wide GHG emissions to mitigate climate change. To the extent additional GHG reduction regulation or legislation becomes effective at the Federal and/or state levels, we could incur costs to further limit the GHG emissions from our operations or otherwise comply with applicable requirements. To the extent such additional regulation or legislation does not become effective, the potential competitive advantage offered by our low-carbon emission profile may be reduced. See ITEM 1. BUSINESS – Environmental Matters and Regulation – Climate Change for additional information. Our financial performance could be negatively affected by matters arising from our ownership and operation of nuclear facilities. Nuclear capacity factors. Capacity factors for nuclear generating units significantly affect our results of operations. Lower capacity factors could decrease our revenues and increase operating costs by requiring us to produce additional energy from our natural gas and oil fueled facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy our supply obligations to committed third-party sales. These sources generally have higher costs than we incur to produce energy from our nuclear stations. Nuclear refueling outages. In general, refueling outages are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months. The total number of refueling outages, along with their duration, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. When refueling outages last longer than anticipated or we experience unplanned outages, capacity 36 factors decrease, and we face lower margins due to higher energy replacement costs and/or lower energy sales and higher operating and maintenance costs. Nuclear fuel quality. The quality of nuclear fuel utilized by us could affect the efficiency and costs of our operations. Remediation actions could result in increased costs due to accelerated fuel amortization, increased outage costs and/or increased costs due to decreased generation capabilities. Operational risk. Operations at any of our nuclear generation plants could degrade to the point where we must shut down the plant or operate at less than full capacity. If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes could require significant time and expense. We could choose to close a plant rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the plant to full capacity. In either event, we could lose revenue and incur increased purchased power and fuel expense to meet supply commitments. Further, our nuclear operations produce various types of nuclear waste materials, including SNF. The approval of a national repository for the storage of SNF and the timing of that facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with storage of SNF and the ultimate amounts received from the DOE to reimburse us for these costs. Any regulatory action relating to the timing and availability of a repository for SNF could adversely affect our ability to decommission fully our nuclear units. We cannot predict whether a fee may be established or to what extent, in the future for SNF disposal. If we are required to arrange for the safe and permanent disposal of spent fuel beyond current expectations, this could lead to substantial expense or capital expenditures. For plants operated but not wholly owned by us, we could also incur liability to the co-owners. For nuclear plants not operated and not wholly owned by us, from which we receive a portion of the plants’ output, our results of operations are dependent on the operational performance of the operators and could be adversely affected by a significant event at those plants. Additionally, poor operating performance at nuclear plants not owned by us could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy. Closure of generating plants owned by others, or extended interruptions of generating plants or failure of transmission lines, could adversely affect transmission systems and the sale and delivery of electricity in markets served by us. Nuclear major incident risk and insurance. The consequences of a major incident could be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear plant major incident within the United States, owned or operated by us or owned by others, could exceed our resources, including insurance coverage. We are a member of an industry mutual insurance company, NEIL, which provides property and business interruption insurance for our nuclear operations. Uninsured losses and other expenses, to the extent not recovered from insurers or the nuclear industry, could be borne by us. Additionally, an accident or other significant event at a nuclear plant within the United States or abroad, whether owned by us or others, could result in increased regulation and reduced public support for nuclear-fueled energy. As required by the Price-Anderson Act, we carry the maximum available amount of nuclear liability insurance, $ 450 million for each operating site. Claims exceeding that amount are covered through mandatory participation in a financial protection pool. In addition, the U.S. Congress could impose revenue-raising measures on the nuclear industry to pay claims exceeding the $ 13.5 billion limit for a single incident. See Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of nuclear insurance. Decommissioning obligation and funding. NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in certain minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. We recognize as a liability the present value of the estimated future costs to decommission our nuclear facilities. The estimated liability is based on assumptions in the approach and timing of decommissioning the nuclear facilities, estimation of decommissioning costs and Federal and state regulatory requirements. The costs of such decommissioning may substantially exceed such liability, as facts, circumstances or our estimates may change, including changes in the approach and timing of decommissioning activities, changes in decommissioning costs, changes in Federal or state regulatory requirements on the decommissioning of such facilities, other changes in our estimates or ability to effectively execute on our planned decommissioning activities. 37 We make contributions to certain trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts being collected by PECO from its customers and remitted to us. While we, through PECO, have recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers (subject to certain limitations and thresholds), we have no recourse to collect additional amounts from utility customers for any of our other nuclear units if there is a shortfall of funds necessary for decommissioning. If circumstances changed such that there was an inability to continue to make contributions to the trust funds of the former PECO units based on amounts collected from PECO customers, or if we no longer had recourse to collect additional amounts from PECO customers if there was a shortfall of funds for decommissioning, the adequacy of the trust funds related to the former PECO units could be negatively affected. Any changes to the PECO regulatory agreements could impact our ability to offset decommissioning-related activities within the Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income, and the impact to our financial statements could be material. Should the expected value of the NDT fund for any former ComEd unit fall below the amount of the expected decommissioning obligation for that unit, the accounting to offset decommissioning-related activities for that unit would be discontinued, and the decommissioning-related activities would be recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income, the impact of which could be material. For the year ended December 31, 2021, a pre-tax charge of $193 million was recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for decommissioning-related activities that were not offset for the Byron units due to contractual offset being temporarily suspended. Forecasting trust fund investment earnings and costs to decommission nuclear generating stations requires significant judgment, and actual results could differ significantly from current estimates. If the investments held by our NDT funds are not sufficient to fund the decommissioning of our nuclear units, we could be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through letters of credit or parent company guarantees or making additional contributions to the trusts, which could be significant, to ensure that the trusts are adequately funded and that current and future NRC minimum funding requirements are met See Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We are subject to physical security and cybersecurity risks. We face physical security and cybersecurity risks. Threat sources continue to seek to exploit potential vulnerabilities in the electric generation and natural gas industry associated with protection of sensitive and confidential information, grid infrastructure and other energy infrastructures. These attacks and disruptions, both physical and cyber, are becoming increasingly sophisticated and dynamic. Continued implementation of advanced digital technologies increases the potentially unfavorable impacts of such attacks. A security breach of our physical assets or information systems or those of our competitors, vendors, business partners and interconnected entities in RTOs and ISOs, or regulators could impact the operation of the generation fleet and/or reliability of the transmission and distribution system or result in the theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including critical infrastructure information, sensitive customer, vendor and employee data, trading or other confidential data. The risk of these system-related events and security breaches occurring continues to intensify, and while we have not directly experienced a material breach or disruption to our network or information systems or our operations to-date, such attacks continue to increase in sophistication and frequency, and we may be unable to prevent all such attacks in the future. If a significant breach were to occur, our reputation could be negatively affected, customer confidence in us or others in the industry could be diminished, or we could be subject to legal claims, loss of revenues, increased costs or operations shutdown. Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance maintained against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover losses or otherwise adequately compensate for any disruptions to business that could result. In addition, new or updated security regulations or unforeseen threat sources could require changes in current measures taken by us or our business operations and could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. Our employees, contractors, customers and the general public could be exposed to a risk of injury due to the nature of the energy industry. 38 Employees and contractors throughout the organization work in, and the general public could be exposed to, potentially dangerous environments near our operations. As a result, employees, contractors and the general public are at some risk for serious injury, including loss of life. These risks include, but are not limited to, nuclear accidents, dam failure, gas explosions, and electric contact cases. Natural disasters, war, acts and threats of terrorism, pandemic and other significant events could negatively impact our results of operations, ability to raise capital and future growth. Our fleet of power plants and the transmission infrastructure to which they are connected could be affected by natural disasters and extreme weather events, which could result in increased costs, including supply chain costs. Natural disasters and other significant events increase our risk that the NRC or other regulatory or legislative bodies could change the laws or regulations governing, among other things, operations, maintenance, licensed lives, decommissioning, SNF storage, insurance, emergency planning, security and environmental and radiological matters. In addition, natural disasters could affect the availability of a secure and economical supply of water in some locations, which is essential for our continued operation, particularly the cooling of generating units. The impact that potential terrorist attacks could have on the industry and on us is uncertain. We face a risk that our operations would be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terror. Any retaliatory military strikes or sustained military campaign could affect our operations in unpredictable ways, such as changes in insurance markets and disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly uranium and oil. Furthermore, these catastrophic events could compromise the physical or cybersecurity of our facilities, which could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, war, natural disasters, pandemic, credit crises, recession or other factors also could result in a decline in energy consumption or interruption of fuel or the supply chain. In addition, the implementation of security guidelines and measures has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in increased costs. We could be significantly affected by the outbreak of a pandemic. We have plans in place to respond to a pandemic. However, depending on the severity of a pandemic and the resulting impacts to workforce and other resource availability, the ability to operate our generating assets could be adversely affected. In addition, we maintain a level of insurance coverage consistent with industry practices against property, casualty and cybersecurity losses subject to unforeseen occurrences or catastrophic events that could damage or destroy assets or interrupt operations. However, there can be no assurance that the amount of insurance will be adequate to address such property and casualty losses. Our business is capital intensive, and our assets could require significant expenditures to maintain and are subject to operational failure, which could result in potential liability. Our business is capital intensive and requires significant investments in electric generating facilities. Equipment, even if maintained in accordance with good utility practices, is subject to operational failure, including events that are beyond our control, and could require significant expenditures to remedy. Our consolidated financial statements could be negatively affected if we were unable to effectively manage our capital projects or raise the necessary capital. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information regarding our potential future capital expenditures. Our performance could be negatively affected if we fail to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce. Certain events, such as the separation transaction, an employee strike, loss of employees, loss of contract resources due to a major event, and an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, could lead to operating challenges and increased costs for us. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, could arise. We are particularly affected due to the specialized knowledge required of the technical and support employees for generation operations. We could make acquisitions or investments in new business initiatives and new markets, which may not be successful or achieve the intended financial results. 39 We could continue to pursue growth in our existing businesses and markets and further diversification across the competitive energy value chain. This could include opportunistic carbon-free energy acquisitions, creating new value from our existing fleet through repowering, co-location and the production of hydrogen, growing sustainability products and services for our customers, and investment opportunities in other emerging technologies and innovation. Such initiatives could involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered during diligence performed prior to launching an initiative or entering a market. Additionally, it is possible that FERC, state public utility commissions or others could impose certain other restrictions on such transactions. All these factors could result in higher costs or lower revenues than expected, resulting in lower than planned returns on investment. Risks Related to Our Separation from Exelon Following the separation, our financial profile has changed, and we are a smaller, less diversified company than Exelon prior to the separation. The separation resulted in us being a smaller, less diversified company. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the diversification of our revenues, costs, and cash flows will diminish as a standalone company, such that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility and our ability to fund capital expenditures and investments, pay dividends and service debt may be diminished. We may not achieve some or all the expected benefits of the separation, and the separation may materially adversely affect our business. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the separation, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. If we fail to achieve some or all the benefits expected to result from the separation, or if such benefits are delayed, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The terms in our agreements with Exelon could be less beneficial than the terms we may have otherwise received from unaffiliated third parties. The agreements entered with Exelon in connection with the separation, including the separation agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, and a transition services agreement, were prepared in the context of the separation while we were still a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon. Accordingly, during the period in which the terms of those agreements were prepared, we did not have an independent board of directors or a management team that was independent of Exelon. As a result, the terms of those agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. Exelon may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that were executed as part of the separation, which could cause us to incur expenses or losses we would not otherwise incur. In connection with the separation and prior to the distribution, we and Exelon entered into the separation agreement and entered into various other agreements, including a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, and a transition services agreement. The separation agreement, the tax matters agreement and the employee matters agreement determined the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. We will rely on Exelon to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. If Exelon is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations, we could incur operational difficulties and/or losses. In connection with the separation into two public companies, we and Exelon indemnified each other for certain liabilities. If we are required to pay under these indemnities to Exelon, our 40 financial results could be negatively impacted. The Exelon indemnities may not be sufficient to hold us harmless from the full amount of liabilities for which Exelon will be allocated responsibility, and Exelon may not be able to satisfy its indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the separation agreement and certain other agreements between Exelon and us, each party will agree to indemnify the other for certain liabilities, in each case for uncapped amounts. Indemnities that we may be required to provide Exelon are not subject to any cap, may be significant and could negatively impact our business. Third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Exelon has agreed to retain. Any amounts we are required to pay pursuant to these indemnification obligations and other liabilities could require us to divert cash that would otherwise have been used in furtherance of our operating business. Further, the indemnities from Exelon for our benefit may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and Exelon may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Exelon any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expire. If we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services once certain separation transaction agreements expire, we may not be able to operate our business effectively, and our profitability may decline. We are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services that Exelon currently provides to us. We may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if we cannot transition effectively from Exelon’s existing operating systems, databases and programming languages that support these functions to our own systems. Our failure to implement the new systems and transition our data successfully and cost-effectively could disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, our costs for the operation of these systems may be higher than the amounts reflected in our historical financial statements. We may not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions or capital-raising following the separation. Under current U.S. federal income tax law, a spin-off that otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment can be rendered taxable to the parent corporation and its shareholders as a result of certain post-spin-off transactions, including certain acquisitions of shares or assets of the spun-off corporation. To preserve the tax-free treatment of the distribution, and in addition to potential tax indemnity obligations, we agreed to certain limitations or prohibitions in the tax matters agreement that may prohibit us, for the two-year period following the distribution and except in specific circumstances, from, among other things: • entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the shares of our stock, or substantially all of our assets, would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise; • issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds; • repurchasing shares of our stock other than in certain open-market transactions. The tax matters agreement prohibits us from taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent the distribution and certain related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the IRC. These restrictions may limit our ability to pursue certain equity issuances, strategic transactions, repurchases or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our shareholders or that might increase the value of our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock A trading market for our common stock was only recently initiated following the separation and our stock price may fluctuate significantly. 41 An active trading market for our common stock was only recently initiated following the separation, which may affect your ability to sell your shares and could lead to our share price being depressed or more volatile. For many reasons, including the risks identified in this “Risk Factors” section, the market price of our common stock following the separation may be more volatile than the market price of Exelon’s common stock before the separation. These factors may result in short-term or long-term negative pressure on the value of our common stock. We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade.  The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors including the following: • our announcements or our competitors’ announcements regarding new products or services, enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; • fluctuations in our quarterly or annual financial results or the quarterly or annual financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; • investors’ general perception of us and our industry; • changes to the regulatory and legal environment under which we operate; • changes in general economic and market conditions; and • changes in industry conditions. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if successfully defended, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Anti-takeover provisions could enable us to resist a takeover attempt by a third-party. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Pennsylvania law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. We believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers; however, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of us and our shareholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. See “Description of Common Stock — Certain Anti-Takeover Provisions” in the Form 10. In addition, an acquisition or further issuance of our stock could trigger the application of Section 355(e) of the IRC, causing the distribution to be taxable to Exelon. For a discussion of Section 355(e) of the IRC, see “The Separation — Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Separation” in the Form 10. Under the tax matters agreement, we would be required to indemnify Exelon for the resulting tax, and this indemnity obligation might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that our shareholders may consider favorable. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation designate the state courts of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (or if such state courts do not have jurisdiction, the federal district courts located within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania) as the sole and exclusive 42 forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, and the United States federal district courts as the exclusive forum for claims under the Securities Act, which could limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain what such shareholders believe to be a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide that, unless our board of directors consents in writing to an alternative forum, a state court within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (or if no such state court has jurisdiction, a federal district court within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania) will be the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company (including any derivative suit brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Exchange Act), (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director, officer or employee of the Company to the Company or its shareholders, (3) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any of its directors, officers or employees arising pursuant to any provision of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (the “PBCL”) or as to which the PBCL confers jurisdiction on the Pennsylvania Courts of Common Pleas or the amended and restated articles of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws or (4) any action asserting a claim against the Company or any of its directors, officers or employees governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The amended and restated articles of incorporation also provide that unless our board of directors consents in writing to an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolution of any action asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. Although the amended and restated articles of incorporation include these exclusive forum provisions, it is possible that a court could rule that these provisions are inapplicable or unenforceable. Our exclusive forum provision will apply to derivative suits brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Exchange Act, and investors cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. These exclusive provisions may limit a shareholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder believes to be favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits. It is possible that a court could find these exclusive forum provisions inapplicable or unenforceable with respect to one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, and we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and result in a diversion of the time and resources of our management and board of directors.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

(Dollars in millions, unless otherwise noted) Executive Overview We are a supplier of clean energy. Our generating capacity consists of nuclear, wind, solar, natural gas and hydroelectric assets. Through our integrated business operations, we sell electricity, natural gas, and other energy related products and sustainable solutions to various types of customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and commercial, industrial, governmental, and residential customers in competitive markets across multiple geographic regions. We have five reportable segments: Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New York, ERCOT and Other Power Regions. COVID-19. We have taken steps to mitigate the potential risks posed by the global outbreak (pandemic) of COVID-19. We provide a critical service to our customers which means that it is paramount that we keep our employees who operate our businesses safe and minimize unnecessary risk of exposure to the virus by taking extra precautions for employees who work in the field and in our facilities. We have implemented work from home policies where appropriate, and imposed travel limitations on employees. We continue to implement strong physical and cyber-security measures to ensure that our systems remain functional in order to both serve our operational needs with a remote workforce and keep them running to ensure uninterrupted service to our customers. There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting as a result of COVID-19 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. See ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES for additional information. Unfavorable economic conditions due to COVID-19 resulted in an estimated reduction to our Net income of approximately $170 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The impact was not material for the year ended December 31, 2021. We assessed long-lived assets, goodwill, and investments for recoverability and there were no material impairment charges recorded in 2020 or 2021 as a result of COVID-19. See Note 12 — Asset Impairments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to other impairment assessments. We will continue to monitor developments affecting our workforce, customers, and suppliers and will take additional precautions that we determine to be necessary in order to mitigate the impacts. We cannot predict the full extent of the impacts of COVID-19, which will depend on, among other things, the rate, and public perceptions of the effectiveness, of vaccinations and rate of resumption of business activity. Significant 2021 Transactions and Developments Separation from Exelon On February 21, 2021, Exelon’s Board of Directors approved a plan to separate its competitive generation and customer-facing businesses into a stand-alone publicly traded company ("the separation"). Exelon completed the separation on February 1, 2022. In order to govern the ongoing relationships between us and Exelon after the separation, and to facilitate an orderly transition, we and Exelon have entered into several agreements, including a Separation Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement, and an Employee Matters Agreement and other ancillary agreements. See Note 24 — Separation from Exelon of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In connection with the separation, we incurred transaction costs of $49 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, which are recorded in Operating and maintenance expense. We expect to incur incremental transaction costs of approximately $150 million and $60 million in 2022 and 2023, respectively. The transaction costs are primarily comprised of system-related costs, third-party costs paid to advisors, consultants, lawyers, and other experts assisting in the separation. 48 CENG Put Option EDF had the option to sell its 49.99% equity interest in CENG to us exercisable beginning on January 1, 2016 and thereafter until June 30, 2022. On November 20, 2019, we received notice of EDF’s intention to exercise the put option and sell its 49.99% equity interest in CENG to us and the put automatically exercised on January 19, 2020 at the end of the sixty-day advance notice period. On August 6, 2021, we entered into a settlement agreement with EDF pursuant to which we, through a wholly owned subsidiary, purchased EDF’s equity interest in CENG for a net purchase price of $885 million, which includes, among other things, a credit for EDF’s share of the balance of the preferred distribution payable by CENG to us. The difference between the net purchase price and EDF’s noncontrolling interest as of the closing date was recorded to Membership Interest in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In connection with the settlement agreement, on August 6, 2021, we issued approximately $880 million under a term loan credit agreement to fund the transaction, which will expire on August 5, 2022. See Note 2 – Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions and Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Clean Energy Law On September 15, 2021, the Illinois Public Act 102-0662 was signed into law by the Governor of Illinois (“Clean Energy Law”). The Clean Energy Law is designed to achieve 100% carbon-free power by 2045 to enable the state’s transition to a clean energy economy. The Clean Energy Law establishes decarbonization requirements for Illinois as well as programs to support the retention and development of emissions-free sources of electricity.  Among other things, the Clean Energy Law authorized the IPA to procure up to 54.5 million CMCs from qualifying nuclear plants for a five-year period beginning on June 1, 2022 through May 31, 2027. CMCs are credits for the carbon-free attributes of eligible nuclear power plants in PJM. The Byron, Dresden, and Braidwood nuclear plants located in Illinois participated in the CMC procurement process and were awarded contracts that commit each plant to operate through May 31, 2027. Pursuant to these contracts, ComEd will procure CMCs based upon the number of MWhs produced annually by each plant, subject to minimum performance requirements. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Following enactment of the Clean Energy Law, we announced on September 15, 2021 that we reversed our previous decision to retire Byron and Dresden given the opportunity for additional revenue. In addition, we no longer consider the Braidwood or LaSalle nuclear plants to be at risk for premature retirement. See Note 7 - Early Plant Retirements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information and Early Retirement of Generation Facilities below. Early Retirement of Generation Facilities In August 2020, we announced the intention to retire the Byron Generating Station in September 2021, Dresden Generating Station in November 2021, and Mystic Units 8 and 9 at the expiration of the cost of service commitment in May 2024. As a result, we recognized a $500 million pre-tax impairment for the New England asset group along with certain one-time charges in the third and fourth quarters of 2020, in addition to ongoing annual financial impacts stemming from shortening the expected economic useful lives of these facilities primarily related to accelerated depreciation of plant assets (including any ARC) and accelerated amortization of nuclear fuel. In the second quarter of 2021, an incremental decline in value resulted in an additional pre-tax impairment charge of $350 million for the New England asset group. 49 We recorded pre-tax charges of $53 million and $140 million in the second and third quarters of 2021, respectively, for decommissioning-related activities that were not offset for the Byron units due to the inability to recognize a regulatory asset at ComEd. On September 15, 2021, we reversed our previous decision to early retire Byron and Dresden and the expected economic useful life for both facilities was updated to 2044 and 2046 for Byron Units 1 and 2, respectively, and to 2029 and 2031 for Dresden Units 2 and 3, respectively. Depreciation was therefore adjusted beginning September 15, 2021, to reflect these extended useful life estimates. In addition, in the third quarter of 2021, we reversed approximately $81 million of severance benefit costs and $13 million of other one-time charges initially recorded in the third and fourth quarters of 2020 associated with the early retirements. We recognized pre-tax expenses for Byron, Dresden, and Mystic Units 8 and 9 of $1,458 million for the year ended  December 31, 2021, primarily due to accelerated depreciation and amortization of plant assets, partially offset by the reversal of one-time charges for Byron and Dresden. See Note 7 — Early Plant Retirements, Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations, and Note 12 — Asset Impairments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for additional information. Impacts of February 2021 Extreme Cold Weather Event and Texas-based Generating Assets Outages Beginning on February 15, 2021, our Texas-based generating assets within the ERCOT market, specifically Colorado Bend II, Wolf Hollow II, and Handley, experienced outages as a result of extreme cold weather conditions. In addition, those weather conditions drove increased demand for service, dramatically increased wholesale power prices, and also increased gas prices in certain regions. The estimated impact to our Net income for the year ended December 31, 2021 arising from these market and weather conditions was a reduction of approximately $800 million. The ultimate impact to our consolidated financial statements may be affected by a number of factors, including the impacts of customer and counterparty defaults and recoveries, any additional solutions to address the financial challenges caused by the event, and related litigation and contract disputes. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters and Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. To offset a portion of the unfavorable impacts, we identified between $370 million and $450 million of enhanced revenue opportunities, deferral of selected non-essential maintenance, and primarily one-time cost savings, which was achieved in 2021. Agreement for the Sale of a Biomass Facility On April 28, 2021, we entered into a purchase agreement with ReGenerate Energy Holdings, LLC ("ReGenerate"), under which ReGenerate agreed to purchase our interest in the Albany Green Energy biomass facility. As a result, in the second quarter of 2021, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $140 million. The sale was completed on June 30, 2021 for a net purchase price of $36 million. See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Agreement for Sale of Our Solar Business On December 8, 2020, we entered into an agreement for the sale of a significant portion of our solar business, including 360 megawatts of generation in operation or under construction at more than 600 sites across the United States. Completion of the sale occurred on March 31, 2021 for a purchase price of $810 million. See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 50 Other Key Business Drivers Power Markets Section 232 Uranium Petition On January 16, 2018, two Canadian-owned uranium mining companies with operations in the U.S. jointly submitted a petition to the U.S. Department of Commerce ("DOC") seeking relief under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 from imports of uranium products, alleging that these imports threaten national security. The United States Nuclear Fuel Working Group ("Working Group") report was made public on April 23, 2020. The Working Group report states that nuclear power is intrinsically tied to national security, and promises that the U.S. government will take bold actions to strengthen all parts of the nuclear fuel industry in the U.S. It recommends the Agreement Suspending the Antidumping Investigation on Uranium from the Russian Federation (the “Russian Suspension Agreement” or "RSA") be extended and to consider reducing the amount of Russian imports of nuclear fuel. The Russian Suspension Agreement is the historical resolution of a 1991 DOC investigation that found that the Russians had been selling or “dumping” cheap uranium products into the U.S. The RSA has been amended several times in the intervening years to allow Russia to supply limited amounts of uranium products into the U.S.  It was set to expire at the end of 2020, but was amended on October 5, 2020 to extend for another 20 years. The Working Group report should be viewed as policy recommendations that may be implemented by executive agencies, congress, and or regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the outcome of all of the policy changes recommended by the Working Group. Complaint at FERC Seeking to Alter Capacity Market Default Offer Caps On February 21, 2019, PJM's Independent Market Monitor (IMM) filed a complaint alleging that the number of performance assessment intervals used to calculate the default offer cap for bids to supply capacity in PJM is too high, resulting in an overstated default offer cap that obviates the need for most sellers to seek unit-specific approval of their offers. The IMM argued that this allows for the exercise of market power. The IMM asked FERC to require PJM to reduce the number of performance assessment intervals used to calculate the opportunity costs of a capacity supplier assuming a capacity obligation. This would, in turn, lower the default offer cap and allow the IMM to review more offers on a unit-specific basis. Several consumer advocates filed a complaint seeking similar relief several months after the IMM’s complaint. On March 18, 2021, FERC granted the complaints, finding the current estimate of performance assessment intervals to be excessive compared to the reasonably expected number of performance assessment intervals which results in an unjust and unreasonable default offer cap. FERC did not establish the number of performance assessment intervals that should be used to calculate the default offer cap and instead requested briefs on the matter, including alternative approaches to mitigation in the capacity market. We submitted initial and reply briefs on May 3, 2021 and June 9, 2021, respectively, and an answer to briefs filed by other parties on June 24, 2021. On September 2, 2021, FERC issued an order adopting the IMM's unit-specific avoidable cost offer review methodology and directed PJM to submit a compliance filing establishing new deadlines for offer review and related other activities leading up to the base residual auction for the 2023-2024 planning year and an additional compliance filing revising the PJM Tariff to comply with FERC's order. We filed at FERC for rehearing on this matter on October 4, 2021 which was deemed denied on November 4, 2021. A number of parties, including us, have filed petitions for review of FERC's orders in this proceeding, which remain pending before the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the financial statement impact. Hedging Strategy We are exposed to commodity price risk associated with the unhedged portion of our electricity portfolio. We enter into non-derivative and derivative contracts, including options, swaps, and forward and futures contracts, all with credit-approved counterparties, to hedge this anticipated exposure. For merchant revenues not already hedged via comprehensive state programs, such as the CMC in Illinois, we utilize a three-year ratable sales plan to align our hedging strategy with our financial objectives. The prompt three-year merchant revenues are hedged on an approximate rolling 90%/60%/30% basis. We may also enter into transactions that are outside of this ratable hedging program. As of December 31, 2021, the percentage of expected generation hedged for the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New York, and ERCOT reportable segments is 92%-95% and 73%-76% for 2022 and 2023, 51 respectively. We have been and will continue to be proactive in using hedging strategies to mitigate commodity price risk. We procure natural gas through long-term and short-term contracts and spot-market purchases. Nuclear fuel assemblies are obtained predominantly through long-term uranium concentrate supply contracts, contracted conversion services, contracted enrichment services, or a combination thereof, and contracted fuel fabrication services. The supply markets for uranium concentrates and certain nuclear fuel services are subject to price fluctuations and availability restrictions. Approximately 50% of our uranium concentrate requirements from 2022 through 2026 are supplied by three suppliers. In the event of non-performance by these or other suppliers, we believe that replacement uranium concentrate can be obtained, although at prices that may be unfavorable when compared to the prices under the current supply agreements. Geopolitical developments have the potential to impact delivery from multiple suppliers in the international uranium industry. Non-performance by these counterparties could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for additional information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires that management apply accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements. Management believes that the accounting policies described below require significant judgment in their application or incorporate estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods. Additional information on the application of these accounting policies can be found in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nuclear Decommissioning Asset Retirement Obligations The AROs associated with decommissioning our nuclear un its were $12.7 billion at December 31, 2021. The authoritative guidance requires that we estimate our obligation for the future decommissioning of our nuclear generating plants. To estimate that liability, we use an internally-developed, probability-weighted, discounted cash flow model which, on a unit-by-unit basis, considers multiple decommissioning outcome scenarios. As a result of nuclear plant retirements in the industry, in recent years, nuclear operators and third-party service providers are obtaining more information about costs associated with decommissioning activities. At the same time, regulators are gaining more information about decommissioning activities which could result in changes to existing decommissioning requirements. In addition, as more nuclear plants are retired, it is possible that technological advances will be identified that could create efficiencies and lead to a reduction in decommissioning costs. The amount of NDT funds could also impact the timing of the decommissioning activities. Additionally, certain factors such as changes in regulatory requirements during plant operations or the profitability of a nuclear plant could impact the timing of plant retirements. These factors could result in material changes to our current estimates as more information becomes available and could change the timing of plant retirements and the probability assigned to the decommissioning outcome scenarios. The nuclear decommissioning obligation is adjusted on a regular basis due to the passage of time and revisions to the key assumptions for the expected timing and/or estimated amounts of the future undiscounted cash flows required to decommission the nuclear plants, based upon the following methodologies and significant estimates and assumptions: Decommissioning Cost Studies. We use unit-by-unit decommissioning cost studies to provide a marketplace assessment of the expected costs (in current year dollars) and timing of decommissioning activities, which are validated by comparison to current decommissioning projects within the industry and other estimates. Decommissioning cost studies are updated, on a rotational basis, for each of our nuclear units at least every five years, unless circumstances warrant more frequent updates. As part of the annual cost study update process, we evaluate newly assumed costs or substantive changes in previously assumed costs to determine if the cost estimate impacts are sufficiently material to warrant application of the updated estimates to the AROs across the nuclear fleet outside of the normal five-year rotating cost study update cycle. 52 Cost Escalation Factors. We use cost escalation factors to escalate the decommissioning costs from the decommissioning cost studies discussed above through the assumed decommissioning period for each of the units. Cost escalation studies, updated on an annual basis, are used to determine escalation factors, and are based on inflation indices for labor, equipment and materials, energy, LLRW disposal, and other costs. All the nuclear AROs are adjusted each year for updated cost escalation factors. Probabilistic Cash Flow Models. Our probabilistic cash flow models include the assignment of probabilities to various scenarios for decommissioning cost levels, decommissioning approaches, and timing of plant shutdown on a unit-by-unit basis. Probabilities assigned to cost levels include an assessment of the likelihood of costs 20% higher (high-cost scenario) or 15% lower (low-cost scenario) than the base cost scenario. The assumed decommissioning scenarios generally include the following three alternatives: (1) DECON, which assumes major decommissioning activities begin shortly after the cessation of operation, (2) Shortened SAFSTOR, which generally assumes a 30-year delay prior to onset of major decommissioning activities, and (3) SAFSTOR, which assumes the nuclear facility is placed and maintained in such condition during decommissioning so that the nuclear facility can be safely stored and subsequently decontaminated within 60 years after cessation of operations. In each decommissioning scenario, spent fuel is transferred to dry cask storage as soon as possible until DOE acceptance for disposal. The actual decommissioning approach selected once a nuclear facility is shutdown will be determined at the time of shutdown and may be influenced by multiple factors including the funding status of the NDT funds at the time of shutdown and regulatory or other commitments. The assumed plant shutdown timing scenarios include the following four alternatives: (1) the probability of operating through the original 40-year nuclear license term, (2) the probability of operating through an initial 20-year license renewal term, (3)  the probability of a second, 20-year license renewal term, and (4) the probability of early plant retirement for certain sites due to changing market conditions and regulatory environments. As power market and regulatory environment developments occur, we evaluate and incorporate, as necessary, the impacts of such developments into our nuclear ARO assumptions and estimates. Our probabilistic cash flow models also include an assessment of the timing of DOE acceptance of SNF for disposal. We currently assume DOE will begin accepting SNF from the industry in 2035. The SNF acceptance date assumption is based on management’s estimates of the amount of time required for DOE to select a site location and develop the necessary infrastructure for long-term SNF storage. For additional information regarding SNF, see Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Discount Rates. The probability-weighted estimated future cash flows for the various assumed scenarios are discounted using credit-adjusted, risk-free rates (CARFR) applicable to the various businesses in which each of the nuclear units originally operated. We initially recognize an ARO at fair value and subsequently adjust it for changes to estimated costs, timing of future cash flows and modifications to decommissioning assumptions. The ARO is not required or permitted to be re-measured for changes in the CARFR that occur in isolation. Increases in the ARO due to upward revisions in estimated undiscounted cash flows are considered new obligations and are measured using a current CARFR as the increase creates a new cost layer within the ARO. Any decrease in the estimated undiscounted future cash flows relating to the ARO are treated as a modification of an existing ARO cost layer and, therefore, are measured using the average historical CARFR rates used in creating the initial ARO cost layers. If all our future nominal cash flows associated with the ARO were to be discounted at the current prevailing CARFR, the obligation would increase from approximately $12.7 billion to approximately $16.0 billion. The following table illustrates the significant impact that changes in the CARFR, when combined with changes in projected amounts and expected timing of cash flows, can have on the valuation of the ARO: 53 ARO Sensitivities. Changes in the assumptions underlying the ARO could materially affect the decommissioning obligation. The impact of a change in any one of these assumptions to the ARO is highly dependent on how the other assumptions may correspondingly change. The following table illustrates the effects of changing certain ARO assumptions while holding all other assumptions constant: __________ (a) Excludes any sites in which management has committed to a specific decommissioning approach. (b) Excludes any retired sites. See Note 1 — Significant Accounting Policies and Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding accounting for nuclear AROs. Unamortized Energy Contract Assets and Liabilities Unamortized energy contract assets and liabilities represent the remaining unamortized balances of non-derivative energy contracts that we have acquired. The initial amount recorded represents the difference between the fair value of the contracts at the time of acquisition and the contract value based on the terms of each contract. The unamortized energy contract assets and liabilities are amortized over the life of the contract in relation to the expected realization of the underlying cash flows. Amortization of the unamortized energy contract assets and liabilities are recorded through operating revenues or purchased power and fuel expense, depending on the nature of the underlying contract. See Note 13 — Intangible Assets of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We regularly monitor and evaluate the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. Indicators of potential impairment may include a deteriorating business climate, including, but not limited to, declines in energy prices, condition of the asset, or plans to dispose of a long-lived asset significantly before the end of its useful life. The review of long-lived assets or asset groups for impairment utilizes significant assumptions about operating strategies and estimates of future cash flows, which require assessments of current and projected market conditions. Forecasting future cash flows requires assumptions regarding forecasted commodity prices for the sale of power and purchases of fuel and the expected operations of assets. A variation in the assumptions used could lead to a different conclusion regarding the recoverability of an asset or asset group and, thus, could potentially result in material future impairments. An impairment evaluation is based on an undiscounted cash flow analysis at the lowest level at which cash flows of the long-lived assets or asset groups are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. The lowest level of independent cash flows is determined by the evaluation of several factors, including the geographic dispatch of the generation units and the hedging strategies related to those units. The cash flows from our generating units are generally evaluated at a regional portfolio level given the interdependency of cash flows generated from the customer supply and risk management activities within each region. In certain cases, our generating assets may be evaluated on an individual basis where those assets are contracted on a long-term basis with a third-party and operations are independent of other generating assets (typically contracted renewables). 54 On a quarterly basis, we assess our long-lived assets or asset groups for indicators of potential impairment. If indicators are present for a long-lived asset or asset group, a comparison of the undiscounted expected future cash flows to the carrying value is performed. When the undiscounted cash flow analysis indicates the carrying value of a long-lived asset or asset group may not be recoverable, the amount of the impairment loss is determined by measuring the excess of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset or asset group over its fair value. The fair value of the long-lived asset or asset group is dependent upon a market participant’s view of the exit price of the asset or asset groups. This includes significant assumptions of the estimated future cash flows generated by the asset or asset groups and market discount rates. Events and circumstances often do not occur as expected, resulting in differences between prospective financial information and actual results, which may be material. The determination of fair value is driven by both internal assumptions that include significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), such as revenue and generation forecasts, projected capital, maintenance expenditures, and discount rates, as well as information from various public, financial and industry sources. See Note 12 — Asset Impairments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of asset impairment assessments. Depreciable Lives of Property, Plant and Equipment We have significant investments in electric generation assets. These assets are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis, using the group, composite or unitary methods of depreciation. The group approach is typically for groups of similar assets that have approximately the same useful lives and the composite approach is used for heterogeneous assets that have different lives. Under both methods, a reporting entity depreciates the assets over the average life of the assets in the group. The estimation of asset useful lives requires management judgment, supported by formal depreciation studies of historical asset retirement experience. Depreciation studies are generally conducted periodically if an event, regulatory action, or change in retirement patterns indicate an update is necessary. Along with depreciation study results, management considers expected future energy market conditions and generation plant operating costs and capital investment requirements in determining the estimated service lives of our generating facilities and reassesses the reasonableness of estimated useful lives whenever events or changes in circumstances warrant. When a determination has been made that an asset will be retired before the end of its current estimated useful life, depreciation provisions will be accelerated to reflect the shortened estimated useful life, which could have a material unfavorable impact on future results of operations. See Note 7 — Early Plant Retirements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Changes in estimated useful lives of electric generation assets could have a significant impact on future results of operations. See Note 1 — Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding depreciation and estimated service lives of the property, plant and equipment. Accounting for Derivative Instruments We use derivative instruments to manage commodity price risk, foreign currency exchange risk and interest rate risk related to ongoing business operations. Our derivative activities are in accordance with our Risk Management Policy (RMP). See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We account for derivative financial instruments under the applicable authoritative guidance. Determining whether a contract qualifies as a derivative requires that management exercise significant judgment, including assessing market liquidity as well as determining whether a contract has one or more underlying and one or more notional quantities. Changes in management’s assessment of contracts and the liquidity of their markets, and changes in authoritative guidance, could result in previously excluded contracts becoming in scope of new authoritative guidance. All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair value, except for certain derivatives that qualify for, and are elected under, NPNS. Derivatives entered for economic hedging and for proprietary trading purposes are recorded at fair value through earnings. NPNS. As part of our energy marketing business, we enter contracts to buy and sell energy to meet the requirements of our customers. These contracts include short-term and long-term commitments to purchase and 55 sell energy and energy-related products in the retail and wholesale markets with the intent and ability to deliver or take delivery. While some of these contracts are considered derivative financial instruments under the authoritative guidance, certain of these qualifying transactions have been designated as NPNS transactions, and are not required to be recorded at fair value, but rather on an accrual basis of accounting. Determining whether a contract qualifies for the NPNS requires judgment on whether the contract will physically deliver and requires that management ensure compliance with all associated qualification and documentation requirements. Revenues and expenses on contracts that qualify as NPNS are recognized when the underlying physical transaction is completed. Contracts that qualify for NPNS are those for which physical delivery is probable, quantities are expected to be used or sold in the normal course of business over a reasonable period, and the contract is not financially settled on a net basis. Commodity Contracts. Identification of a commodity contract as an economic hedge requires us to determine that the contract is in accordance with the RMP. We reassess our economic hedges on a regular basis to determine if they continue to be within the guidelines of the RMP. As a part of the authoritative guidance, we make estimates and assumptions concerning future commodity prices, load requirements, interest rates, the timing of future transactions and their probable cash flows, the fair value of contracts and the expected changes in the fair value in deciding whether to enter derivative transactions, and in determining the initial accounting treatment for derivative transactions. Under the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, we categorize these derivatives under a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. Derivative contracts are traded in both exchange-based and non-exchange-based markets. Exchange-based derivatives that are valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets are generally categorized in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. Certain derivative pricing is verified using indicative price quotations available through brokers or over-the-counter, online exchanges. The price quotations reflect the average of the mid-point of the bid-ask spread from observable markets that we believe provide the most liquid market for the commodity. The price quotations are reviewed and corroborated to ensure the prices are observable and representative of an orderly transaction between market participants. Our derivatives are traded predominantly at liquid trading points. The remaining derivative contracts are valued using models that consider inputs such as contract terms, including maturity, and market parameters, and assumptions of the future prices of energy, interest rates, volatility, credit worthiness and credit spread. For derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps, and options, the model inputs are generally observable. Such instruments are categorized in Level 2. For derivatives that trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, the model inputs generally would include both observable and unobservable inputs and are categorized in Level 3. We consider nonperformance risk, including credit risk in the valuation of derivative contracts, and both historical and current market data in our assessment of nonperformance risk. The impacts of nonperformance and credit risk to date have generally not been material to the financial statements. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK and Note 18 — Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities and Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative instruments. Taxation Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, primarily due to the uncertainty related to tax positions taken, as well as deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances. We account for uncertain income tax positions using a benefit recognition model with a two-step approach including a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold and a measurement approach based on the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of tax benefits to be recorded in the consolidated financial statements. 56 We evaluate quarterly the probability of realizing deferred tax assets by reviewing a forecast of future taxable income and our intent and ability to implement tax planning strategies, if necessary, to realize deferred tax assets. We also assess negative evidence, such as the expiration of historical operating loss or tax credit carryforwards, that could indicate our inability to realize our deferred tax assets. Based on the combined assessment, we record valuation allowances for deferred tax assets when it is more-likely-than-not such benefit will not be realized in future periods. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the future impacts of various items, including future changes in income tax laws, our forecasted financial condition and results of operations, failure to successfully implement tax planning strategies, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. See Note 14 — Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Accounting for Loss Contingencies In the preparation of our financial statements, we make judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and record liabilities for loss contingencies that are probable and can be reasonably estimated based upon available information. The amount recorded may differ from the actual expense incurred when the uncertainty is resolved. Such difference could have a significant impact in the consolidated financial statements. Environmental Costs. Environmental investigation and remediation liabilities are based upon estimates with respect to the number of sites for which we will be responsible, the scope and cost of work to be performed at each site, the portion of costs that will be shared with other parties, the timing of the remediation work, regulations, and the requirements of local governmental authorities. In addition, periodic reviews are performed to assess the adequacy of other environmental reserves. These matters, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a significant impact in the consolidated financial statements. See Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other, Including Personal Injury Claims. Prior to our separation from Exelon, we were self-insured for general liability, automotive liability, and workers’ compensation claims. Upon separation, we now maintain insurance coverage for general liability, automotive liability, and workers’ compensation and are self-insured to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. For personal injury claims, we are self-insured to the extent that losses are within policy deductibles or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. We have reserves for both open claims asserted, and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported (IBNR). The IBNR reserve is estimated based on actuarial assumptions and analysis and is updated annually. Future events, such as the number of new claims to be filed each year, the average cost of disposing of claims, as well as the numerous uncertainties surrounding litigation and possible state and national legislative measures could cause the actual costs to be higher or lower than estimated. Accordingly, these claims, if resolved in a manner different from the estimate, could have a material impact to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Sources of Revenue and Determination of Accounting Treatment. We earn revenue from various business activities including: the sale of power and energy-related products, such as natural gas, capacity, and other commodities in non-regulated markets (wholesale and retail) and the provision of other energy-related non-regulated products and services. The accounting treatment for revenue recognition is based on the nature of the underlying transaction and applicable authoritative guidance. We primarily apply the Revenue from Contracts with Customers and Derivatives Revenues guidance to recognize revenue, as discussed in more detail below. Revenue from Contracts with Customers. We recognize revenues in the period in which the performance obligations within contracts with customers are satisfied, which generally occurs when power, natural gas and other energy-related commodities and services are provided to the customer. Transactions within the scope of Revenue from Contracts with Customers generally include non-derivative agreements, contracts that are designated as NPNS and spot-market energy commodity sales, including settlements with ISOs. 57 The determination of our retail power and natural gas sales to individual customers is based on systematic readings of customer meters, generally monthly. Energy delivered to customers that has not yet been billed as of the reporting period is estimated and corresponding unbilled revenue is recorded. The measurement of unbilled revenue is based upon individual customer meter readings, forecasted volumes, and applicable rates.  See Note 1 — Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Derivative Revenues. We record revenues and expenses using the mark-to-market method of accounting for transactions that are accounted for as derivatives. These derivative transactions primarily relate to commodity price risk management activities. Mark-to-market revenues and expenses include: inception gains or losses on new transactions where the fair value is observable, unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of open contracts, and realized gains and losses. Results of Operations For discussion of the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, refer to MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS in the Form 10. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020. Net income attributable to membership inte res t decreased by $794 million primarily due to: • Impacts of the February 2021 extreme cold weather event; • Accelerated depreciation and amortization associated with our previous decision in the third quarter of 2020 to early retire Byron and Dresden nuclear facilities in 2021, a decision which was reversed 58 on September 15, 2021, and our decision in the third quarter of 2020 to early retire Mystic Units 8 and 9 in 2024; • Decommissioning-related activities that were not offset for the Byron units beginning in the second quarter of 2021 through September 15, 2021. With our September 15, 2021 reversal of the previous decision to retire Byron, we resumed contractual offset for Byron as of that date; • Impairments of the New England asset group, the Albany Green Energy biomass facility, and a wind project, partially offset by the absence of an impairment of the New England asset group in the third quarter of 2020; • Higher net unrealized and realized losses on equity investments; and • The absence of prior year one-time tax settlements. The decreases were partially offset by: • Higher mark-to-market gains; • Higher net unrealized and realized gains on NDT funds; • Absence of one time charges recorded in 2020 associated with our decision to early retire the Byron and Dresden nuclear facilities and Mystic Units 8 and 9, and the reversal of one-time charges resulting from the reversal of the previous decision to early retire Byron and Dresden on September 15, 2021; • Favorable sales and hedges of excess emission credits; • Favorable commodity prices on fuel hedges; • Lower nuclear fuel costs due to accelerated amortization of nuclear fuel and lower prices; and • Higher New York ZEC revenues due to higher generation and an increase in ZEC prices. Operating revenues. The basis for our reportable segments is the integrated management of our electricity business that is located in different geographic regions, and largely representative of the footprints of ISO/RTO and/or NERC regions, which utilize multiple supply sources to provide electricity through various distribution channels (wholesale and retail). Our hedging strategies and risk metrics are also aligned with these same geographic regions. Our five reportable segments are Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New York, ERCOT, and Other Power Regions. See Note 5 — Segment Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these reportable segments. 59 The following business activities are not allocated to a region and are reported under Other: natural gas, as well as other miscellaneous business activities that are not significant to overall operating revenues or results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 2020, Operating revenues by region were as follows: __________ (a) % Change in mark-to-market is not a meaningful measure. Sales and Supply Sources. Our sales and supply sources by region are summarized below: __________ (a) Includes the proportionate share of output where we have an undivided ownership interest in jointly-owned generating plants. Includes the total output for fully owned plants and the total output for CENG prior to the acquisition of EDF’s 60 interest on August 6, 2021 as CENG was fully consolidated. See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our acquisition of EDF’s interest in CENG. Nuclear Fleet Capacity Factor. The following table presents nuclear fleet operating data for our plants, which reflects ownership percentage of stations operated by us, excluding Salem, which is operated by PSEG. The nuclear fleet capacity factor presented in the table is defined as the ratio of the actual output of a plant over a period of time to its output if the plant had operated at full average annual mean capacity for that time period. We consider capacity factor to be a useful measure to analyze the nuclear fleet performance between periods. We have included the analysis below as a complement to the financial information provided in accordance with GAAP. However, these measures are not a presentation defined under GAAP and may not be comparable to other companies’ presentations or be more useful than the GAAP information provided elsewhere in this report. ZEC Prices. We are compensated through state programs for the carbon-free attributes of our nuclear generation. ZEC prices have a significant impact on operating revenues. The following table presents the average ZEC prices ($/MWh) for each of our major regions in which state programs have been enacted. Prices reflect the weighted average price for the various delivery periods within each calendar year. __________ (a) See Note 7 — Early Plant Retirements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the plants receiving payments through state programs. Capacity Prices. We participate in capacity auctions in each of our major regions, except ERCOT which does not have a capacity market. We also incur capacity costs associated with load served, except in ERCOT. Capacity prices have a significant impact on our operating revenues and purchased power and fuel. The following table presents the average capacity prices ($/MW Day) for each of our major regions. Prices reflect the weighted average price for the various auction periods within each calendar year. Electricity Prices. The price of electricity has a significant impact on our operating revenues and purchased power cost. The following table presents the average day-ahead around-the-clock price ($/MWh) for each of our major regions. 61 __________ (a) Reflects New England, which comprises the majority of the activity in the Other region. For the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 2020, changes in Operating revenues by region were approximately as follows: __________ (a) % Change in mark-to-market is not a meaningful measure. (b) See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on mark-to-market gains and losses. 62 Purchased power and fuel. See Operating revenues above for discussion of our reportable segments and hedging strategies and for supplemental statistical data, including supply sources by region, nuclear fleet capacity factor, capacity prices, and electricity prices. The following business activities are not allocated to a region and are reported under Other: natural gas, as well as other miscellaneous business activities that are not significant to overall purchased power and fuel expense or results of operations, and accelerated nuclear fuel amortization associated with nuclear decommissioning. For the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 2020, Purchased power and fuel by region were as follows: __________ (a) % Change in mark-to-market is not a meaningful measure. 63 For the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 2020, changes in Purchased power and fuel by region were approximately as follows: __________ (a) % Change in mark-to-market is not a meaningful measure. (b) See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on mark-to-market gains and losses. 64 The changes in Operating and maintenance expense consisted of the following: __________ (a) Primarily reflects contractual offset of accelerated depreciation and amortization associated with our previous decision to early retire the Byron and Dresden nuclear facilities. See Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Depreciation and amortization expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to the accelerated depreciation and amortization associated with our previous decision to early retire the Byron and Dresden nuclear facilities. This decision was reversed on September 15, 2021 and depreciation for Byron and Dresden was adjusted beginning September 15, 2021 to reflect the extended useful life estimates. A portion of this accelerated depreciation and amortization is offset in Operating and maintenance expense. Gain on sales of assets and businesses increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to gains on sales of equity investments that became publicly traded entities in the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first half of 2021 and a gain on sale of our solar business. Inte res t expense, net decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to decreased expense related to the CR nonrecourse senior secured term loan credit facility and interest rate swaps, and decreases in interest rates. See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the CR credit facility and interest rate swaps. Other, net decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, due to activity described in the table below: 65 _________ (a) Unrealized gains, realized gains, and interest and dividend income on the NDT funds are associated with the Non-Regulatory Agreement Units. In addition, also includes unrealized gains, realized gains, and interest and dividend income on the NDT funds associated with the Byron units as decommissioning-related impacts were not offset starting in the second quarter of 2021 due to the inability to recognize a regulatory asset at ComEd. With the September 15, 2021 reversal of the previous decision to retire Byron, we resumed contractual offset for Byron as of that date. See Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (b) Contractual elimination of income tax expense is associated with the income taxes on the NDT funds of the Regulatory Agreement Units. (c) Net unrealized gains and losses from equity investments that became publicly traded entities in the fourth quarter of 2020 and the first half of 2021. Effective income tax rates were 148.0% and 29.8% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The higher effective tax rate in 2021 is primarily due to the impacts of the February 2021 extreme cold weather event on Income before income taxes. S ee Note 14 — Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to CENG's results of operations prior to our acquisition of EDF's interest in CENG on August 6, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources For discussion of the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources of MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS in the Form 10. All results included throughout the liquidity and capital resources section are presented on a GAAP basis. Our operating and capital expenditures requirements are provided by internally generated cash flows from operations, the sale of certain receivables, as well as funds from external sources in the capital markets and through bank borrowings. Our business is capital intensive and requires considerable capital resources. We annually evaluate our financing plan and credit line sizing, focusing on maintaining our investment grade ratings while meeting our cash needs to fund capital requirements, including construction expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, fund pension and OPEB obligations, and invest in new and existing ventures. A broad spectrum of financing alternatives beyond the core financing options can be used to meet our needs and fund growth including monetizing assets in the portfolio via project financing, asset sales, and the use of other financing structures (e.g., joint ventures, minority partners, etc.). Our access to external financing on reasonable terms depends on our credit ratings and current overall capital market business conditions. If these conditions deteriorate to the extent that we no longer have access to the capital markets at reasonable terms, we have access to credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $5.7 billion. We utilize our credit facilities to support our commercial paper programs, provide for other short-term borrowings and to issue letters of credit. See the “Credit Matters” section below for additional information. We expect cash flows to be sufficient to meet operating expenses, financing costs, and capital expenditure requirements. See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our debt and credit agreements. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement between us and Exelon, we received a cash payment of $1.75 billion from Exelon on January 31, 2022. See Note 24 — Separation from Exelon of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the separation. NRC Minimum Funding Requirements NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that sufficient funds will be available in certain minimum amounts to decommission the facility. These NRC minimum funding levels are typically based upon the assumption that decommissioning activities will commence after the end of the current licensed life of each unit. If a unit fails the NRC minimum funding test, then the plant’s owners or parent companies would be required to take steps, such as providing financial guarantees through surety bonds, letters of credit, or parent company guarantees or making additional cash contributions to the NDT fund to 66 ensure sufficient funds are available. See Note 10 - Asset Retirement Obligations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. If a nuclear plant were to early retire there is a risk that it will no longer meet the NRC minimum funding requirements due to the earlier commencement of decommissioning activities and a shorter time period over which the NDT funds could appreciate in value. A shortfall could require that we address the shortfall by providing additional financial assurances, such as surety bonds, letters of credit, or parent company guarantees for our share of the funding assurance. However, the amount of any assurance will ultimately depend on the decommissioning approach, the associated level of costs, and the NDT fund investment performance going forward. No later than two years after shutting down a plant, we must submit a PSDAR to the NRC that includes the planned option for decommissioning the site. Upon issuance of any required financial assurances, subject to satisfying various regulatory preconditions, each site would be able to utilize the respective NDT funds for radiological decommissioning costs, which represent the majority of the total expected decommissioning costs. However, under the regulations, the NRC must approve an exemption in order for us to utilize the NDT funds to pay for non-radiological decommissioning costs (i.e. spent fuel management and site restoration costs, if applicable). Any amounts not covered by an exemption would be borne by us without reimbursement. As of December 31, 2021, we are not required to provide any additional financial assurance for TMI Unit 1 under the SAFSTOR scenario that is the planned decommissioning option, as described in the TMI Unit 1 PSDAR filed with the NRC on April 5, 2019. On October 16, 2019, the NRC granted our exemption request to use the TMI Unit 1 NDT funds for spent fuel management costs. An additional exemption request to allow the TMI Unit 1 NDT funds to be used for site restoration costs was submitted to the NRC on May 20, 2021 and is pending NRC review. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities primarily result from the sale of electric energy and energy-related products and services to customers. Our future cash flows from operating activities may be affected by future demand for, and market prices of, energy and our ability to continue to produce and supply power at competitive costs, as well as to obtain collections from customers and the sale of certain receivables. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters and Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on regulatory and legal proceedings and proposed legislation. The following table provides a summary of the change in cash flows from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Changes in our cash flows from operations were generally consistent with changes in results of operations, as adjusted by changes in working capital in the normal course of business, except as discussed below. In addition, significant operating cash flow impacts for 2021 and 2020 were as follows: • See Note 22 —Supplemental Financial Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for additional information on non-cash operating activities . 67 • Option premiums paid relate to options contracts that we purchase and sell as part of our established policies and procedures to manage risks associated with market fluctuations in commodity prices. See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on derivative contracts. • Depending upon whether we are in a net mark-to-market liability or asset position, collateral may be required to be posted with or collected from our counterparties. In addition, the collateral posting and collection requirements differ depending on whether the transactions are on an exchange or in the over-the-counter markets. See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on collateral. • See Note 14 —Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for additional information on income taxes. • Changes in working capital and other noncurrent assets and liabilities include a decrease in Accounts receivable resulting from the impact of cash received in 2020 related to the revolving accounts receivable financing arrangement entered into on April 8, 2020 and an increase in Accounts payable and accrued expenses resulting from the impact of certain penalties for natural gas delivery associated with the February 2021 extreme cold weather event and increases in natural gas prices. See Note 6 — Accounts Receivable and Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the sales of customer accounts receivable and on the February 2021 extreme cold weather event, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities The following table provides a summary of the change in cash flows from investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Significant investing cash flow impacts for 2021 and 2020 were as follows: • Variances in capital expenditures are primarily due to the timing of cash expenditures for capital projects. See the "Credit Matters and Cash Requirements" section below for additional information on projected capital expenditure spending. • See Note 6 — Accounts Receivable of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Collection of DPP . • Proceeds from sales of assets and businesses increased primarily due to the sale of a significant portion of our solar business and a biomass facility and proceeds received on sales of equity investments. See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the sale of our solar business and biomass facility. 68 Cash Flows from Financing Activities The following table provides a summary of the change in cash flows from financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Significant financing cash flow impacts for 2021 and 2020 were as follows: • Changes in short-term borrowings, net , is driven by repayments on and issuances of notes due in less than 365 days. Refer to Note 17 - Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on short-term borrowings. • Long-term debt, net, varies due to debt issuances and redemptions each year. Refer to debt issuances and redemptions tables below for additional information. • Changes in money pool with Exelon are driven by short-term borrowing needs. Exelon operated a money pool for its subsidiaries that provided an additional short-term borrowing option that was generally more favorable to the borrowing participants than the cost of external financing. • See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the acquisition of CENG noncontrolling interest. • Other financing activities primarily consists of debt issuance costs. See debt issuances table below for additional information on debt issuances. Debt Issuances and Redemptions See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our long-term debt. Debt activity for 2021 and 2020 was as follows: During 2021, the following long-term debt was issued: __________ (a) See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on nonrecourse debt. (b) The nonrecourse debt has an average blended interest rate. (c) For Energy Efficiency Project Financing, the maturity dates represent the expected date of project completion, upon which the respective customer assumes the outstanding debt. 69 During 2020, the following long-term debt was issued: __________ (a) See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of nonrecourse debt. (b) For Energy Efficiency Project Financing, the maturity dates represent the expected date of project completion, upon which the respective customer assumes the outstanding debt. During 2021, the following long-term debt was retired and/or redeemed: __________ (a) As part of the 2012 merger, Exelon entered intercompany loan agreements that mirrored the terms and amounts of third-party debt obligations. In connection with the separation, on January 31, 2022, we paid cash to Exelon Corporate of $258 million to settle the intercompany loan. See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the mirror debt. (b) See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on nonrecourse debt. (c) The interest rate was amended to 3-month LIBOR + 2.50% on June 16, 2021. (d) On January 5, 2022, we redeemed $6 million of 2.29% - 3.56% Antelope Valley DOE nonrecourse debt. (e) The nonrecourse debt has an average blended interest rate. During 2020, the following long-term debt was retired and/or redeemed: __________ (a) The senior notes are legacy mirror debt that were previously held at Exelon and Constellation. As part of the 2012 merger, Exelon and Constellation assumed intercompany loan agreements that mirrored the terms and amounts of external 70 obligations held by Exelon, resulting in notes payable to related parties in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the mirror debt. (b) See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of nonrecourse debt. From time to time and as market conditions warrant, we may engage in long-term debt retirements via tender offers, open market repurchases or other viable options to reduce debt. Credit Matters and Cash Requirements We fund liquidity needs for capital expenditures, working capital, energy hedging and other financial commitments through cash flows from continuing operations, public debt offerings, commercial paper markets and large, diversified credit facilities. As of December 31, 2021, our credit facilities included $6.6 billion in aggregate total commitments of which $3.4 billion was available to support additional commercial paper and of which no financial institution has more than 8% of the aggregate commitments. In connection with our separation from Exelon, we entered into two new credit agreements that replaced our syndicated revolving credit facility. Under the new agreements, we have access to credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of $5.7 billion. We had access to the commercial paper markets and had availability under our revolving credit facilities during 2021 to fund our short-term liquidity needs, when necessary. We used our available credit facilities to manage short-term liquidity needs as a result of the impacts of the February 2021 extreme cold weather event. We routinely review the sufficiency of our liquidity position, including appropriate sizing of credit facility commitments, by performing various stress test scenarios, such as commodity price movements, increases in margin-related transactions, changes in hedging levels, and the impacts of hypothetical credit downgrades. We closely monitor events in the financial markets and the financial institutions associated with the credit facilities, including monitoring credit ratings and outlooks, credit default swap levels, capital raising, and merger activity. See PART I, ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for additional information regarding the effects of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets. We believe our cash flow from operating activities, access to credit markets and our credit facilities provide sufficient liquidity to support the estimated future cash requirements discussed below. If we lost our investment grade credit rating as of December 31, 2021, we would have been required to provide incremental collateral of approximately $2.1 billion to meet collateral obligations for derivatives, non-derivatives, NPNS, and applicable payables and receivables, net of the contractual right of offset under master netting agreements, which was well within the $3.4 billion of available credit capacity of our revolver as of December 31, 2021.  See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments and Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Capital Expenditures Our most recent estimate of capital expenditures for plant additions and improvements is approximately $1.7 billion for 2022 and approximately $2.9 billion for the period from 2023 to 2024. Projected capital expenditures and other investments are subject to periodic review and revision to reflect changes in economic conditions and other factors. Approximately 50% of projected capital expenditures are for the acquisition of nuclear fuel, with the remaining amounts primarily reflecting additions and upgrades to existing generation facilities (including material condition improvements during nuclear refueling outages). We anticipate that we will fund capital expenditures with a combination of internally generated funds and borrowings. Cash Requirements for Other Financial Commitments The following table summarizes our future estimated cash payments as of December 31, 2021 under existing financial commitments: 71 __________ (a) Interest payments are estimated based on final maturity dates of debt securities outstanding at December 31, 2021 and do not reflect anticipated future refinancing, early redemptions, or debt issuances. Variable rate interest obligations are estimated based on rates as of December 31, 2021. (b) Capacity payments associated with contracted generation lease agreements are net of sublease and capacity offsets of $57 million and $315 million for 2022 and thereafter, respectively and $372 million in total. (c) Purchase power obligations primarily include expected payments for REC purchases and capacity payments associated with contracted generation agreements, which may be reduced based on plant availability. Expected payments exclude payments on renewable generation contracts that are contingent in nature. (d) Represents commitments to purchase nuclear fuel, natural gas and related transportation, storage capacity and services. (e) Represents the future estimated value at December 31, 2021 of the cash flows associated with all contracts, both cancellable and non-cancellable, entered into with third-parties for the provision of services and materials, entered into in the normal course of business not specifically reflected elsewhere in this table. These estimates are subject to significant variability from period to period. (f) These amounts represent our expected contributions to our qualified pension plans. Qualified pension contributions for years after 2027 are not included. See Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies and Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information of our other commitments potentially triggered by future events. Additionally, see below for where to find additional information regarding the financial commitments in the table above in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Project Financing Project financing is based upon a nonrecourse financial structure, in which project debt is paid back from the cash generated by a specific asset or portfolio of assets. Borrowings under these agreements are secured by the assets and equity of each respective project. Lenders do not have recourse against us in the event of a default. If a project financing entity does not maintain compliance with its specific debt covenants, there could be a requirement to accelerate repayment of the associated debt or other project-related borrowings earlier than the stated maturity dates. In these instances, if such repayment were not satisfied, or restructured, the lenders or security holders would generally have rights to foreclose against the project-specific assets and related collateral. The potential requirement to repay the debt or other borrowings earlier than otherwise anticipated could lead to impairments due to a higher likelihood of disposing of the respective project-specific assets significantly before the end of their useful lives. See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on project finance credit facilities and nonrecourse debt. 72 Credit Facilities We meet our short-term liquidity requirements primarily through the issuance of commercial paper. We may use our credit facilities for general corporate purposes, including meeting short-term funding requirements and the issuance of letters of credit. See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our credit facilities. Capital Structure At December 31, 2021, our capital structure consisted of the following: Security Ratings Our access to the capital markets, including the commercial paper market, and our financing costs in those markets, may depend on our securities ratings. Our borrowings are not subject to default or prepayment as a result of a downgrade of our securities, although such a downgrade could increase fees and interest charges under our credit agreements. As part of the normal course of business, we enter into contracts that contain express provisions or otherwise permit us and our counterparties to demand adequate assurance of future performance when there are reasonable grounds for doing so. In accordance with the contracts and applicable contracts law, if we are downgraded by a credit rating agency, it is possible that a counterparty would attempt to rely on such a downgrade as a basis for making a demand for adequate assurance of future performance, which could include the posting of additional collateral. See Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on collateral provisions. On February 24, 2021, S&P lowered our senior unsecured debt rating to 'BBB-' from 'BBB' in response to the financial impacts of the February 2021 weather event and outages at our Texas-based generating assets. See  Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The S&P rating change did not materially impact our financial statements. Furthermore, there were no material increases in required collateral or financial assurances or material impacts to our anticipated access to liquidity or cost of financing. At separation S&P and Moody's affirmed the senior unsecured ratings of BBB- and Baa2, respectively. Fitch also affirmed their final rating of BBB, prior to formally withdrawing coverage on January 5th. We will only be engaging S&P and Moody's for ratings coverage following separation.