********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report or in our other filings with the Commission, could, individually and collectively, have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial results, financial condition and/or the trading price of our Common Stock: Business and Operational Risks • We face intense competition in our markets. We face intense competition from consumer products companies, both in the U.S. and in international markets.  Most of our products compete with other widely-advertised promoted and merchandised brands within each product category and from retailers, including supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, dollar and other discount stores, pet and other specialty stores and websites and other e-commerce channels, which are increasingly offering private label and retailer-branded brands and generic non-branded products in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower prices.  In China, in particular we face strong competition from local manufacturers offering both generic and branded products. The use of evolving technology to develop more complex pricing models by retailers has led and may continue to lead to pricing pressures in some categories.  In addition, during times of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase more “private label” or other lower price brands, especially at a time of rising inflation. These developments have increased competition in certain product categories in particular, including dietary supplements, diagnostic kits and oral analgesics.  In addition to competition across all our product categories, there continues to be significant product competition in the gummy dietary supplement category, which has grown from about 10 competitors a decade ago to more than 60 of significance in recent years.  Shifting consumer behavior, including continuing shifts to online shopping, have also increased competition in e-commerce in many of our categories, from our larger legacy competitors and newer digitally native brands which have increasingly moved into consumer products and staples. Many of our competitors are large companies, including, among others, P&G, The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Nestle Purina PetCare Company and Nestle Health Science, Haleon plc, Henkel, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Kenvue Inc., Pfizer Inc., Bayer AG,  NBTY, Inc., Koninklijke Philips N.V., Unilever PLC, Sanofi, Pharmavite LLC, and Edgewell Personal Care.  Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do, and these competitors, as well as new market entrants, may therefore, have the capacity to outspend us on advertising and promotional activities and introduce competing products or adopt new technologies, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning, more quickly, successfully and effectively, and respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than we can. Our products generally compete on the basis of performance, brand recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers. Significant price competition may require us to reduce the prices for some of our products to price levels that do not offset manufacturing cost increases, to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share. Increases to our prices, as a result of inflationary pressures or otherwise, could cause declining sales of products whose prices we have increased.  In response to ongoing inflationary pressures and other factors, we have recently raised prices on many of our products across our global portfolio of brands over the past few years.  Ongoing periods of high inflation could lead to additional price increases on these or our other products.  Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on retail customer decisions regarding the brands and product lines they sell and on consumer purchasing decisions.  A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising.  If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain its relative market position.  If our advertising, marketing and promotional programs, including the use of digital and social media to reach consumers, are not effective, our sales growth may decline. • A continued change in the retail environment and changing consumer preferences could cause our sales to decline. Despite increasing shifts to e-commerce, sales of our products remain highest in the traditional mass merchandiser, food and drug retail stores, and our products are also sold in club stores and dollar stores channels.  However, alternative retail channels, including direct to consumer, e-commerce retailers, hard discounters, subscription services and buying clubs, have become more prevalent and the volume of consumer products that are sold through such alternative retail channels is continuing to increase, which may affect customer and consumer preferences, including any pricing pressures for consumer goods as retailers face added costs to build or further expand their e-commerce capacity.  In addition, a growing number of alternative sales channels and business models, such as niche brands, native online brands, private label and store brands, direct-to-consumer brands and channels and discounter channels, have emerged in the markets we serve. In particular, the growing presence of, and increasing sales through, e-commerce retailers have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer behavior or preferences (as consumers increasingly shop online and via mobile and social applications) and market dynamics, including any pricing pressures for consumer goods as retailers face added costs to build their e-commerce capacity. Further, consumer preferences continue to evolve due to a number of factors, including fragmentation of the consumer market and changes in consumer demographics, including the aging of the general population and the emergence of Millennials and Generation Z who have different spending, consumption and purchasing habits; evolving consumer concerns or perceptions regarding ESG practices of manufacturers, including, packaging materials, such as plastic packaging, and their environmental impact; greenhouse gas emissions; waste disposal practices; a growing demand for natural 15 or organic products and ingredients; changing consumer sentiment toward non-local products or sources among different demographic groups; evolving consumer concerns or perceptions regarding the effects of ingredients or substances present in certain consumer products; reduced brand loyalty; and concerns regarding human capital practices, including DEI. We and many of our competitors have increased our online sales as a result of shifting consumer behavior, benefiting from scale, brand recognition, and other factors. However, as consumers continue to shift their behavior, retailers may incur higher e-commerce operating costs and will seek to recover those costs by passing them onto customers and manufacturers.  Additionally, we cannot predict the extent to which our increased e-commerce demand will continue or the impact on our profits as retailers seek to recover higher e-commerce related operating costs.  Any significant changes in consumer preferences or behavior could materially and negatively impact demand for our products and, in turn, our net sales and results of operations. Consumer preferences are also influenced by the perception of our brand images or those of our products, the success of advertising and marketing campaigns, our ability to engage with consumers in the manner they prefer, including through the use of digital media or assets, and the perception of our advertising content, use of social media and extent of engagement in political and social issues. If we are not successful in continuing to adapt to changing consumer preferences and market dynamics or expanding sales through e-commerce retailers or alternative retail channels, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted. • Volatility and increases in the price of raw and packaging materials or energy costs could erode our profit margins. The principal raw materials and packaging used by us and certain of our suppliers and contract manufacturers include surfactants (cleaning agents), paper products and resin-based molded components.  Volatility, and increases in the costs of raw materials without offsetting price increases, disruptions in production or transportation, or increases in the costs of energy, labor, shipping and other necessary services, or other inflationary pressures, including market conditions, inflation, banking failures, supplier capacity restraints, geopolitical developments (including the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East), the impact and results of the presidential election in the U.S., federal government spending disputes and government shutdowns, port congestions or delays, transport capacity restraints, or other disruptions, could significantly affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies, such as in manufacturing and distribution.  Significant inflation of material, component and co-packer input costs impacted our gross margin in 2022, and while we expect general inflationary pressures to cool in 2024, we may still be affected by increased costs impacting our supplies, transportation or manufacturing processes. While we have increased prices on a majority of our products in recent years, there is no assurance that we will be able to fully offset any input costs increases, through cost reduction programs or price increases of our products or enter locked-in price arrangements or hedge agreements, especially given the competitive environment. Sustained, those price increases may lead to declines in volume as competitors may reduce their prices or customers may decide not to pay higher prices or to purchase lower priced alternatives, which could lead to sales declines and loss of market share. While we seek to project tradeoffs between price increases and volume, our projections may not accurately predict the volume impact of price increases.  In addition, volatility in certain commodity markets could significantly affect our production cost. From time to time, we use hedge agreements to mitigate the volatility of commodities and diesel fuel prices.  The hedge agreements are designed to add stability to product costs, enabling us to make pricing decisions and lessen the economic impact of abrupt changes in prices over the term of the contract.  However, in periods of declining fuel or other commodity prices, the hedge agreements can have the effect of locking us in at above-market prices. • Loss of any of our principal customers could significantly decrease our sales and profitability. A limited number of customers account for a large percentage of our net sales and/or net sales of specific product lines.  Walmart is our largest customer, accounting for approximately 23% of net sales in 2023, 24% of net sales in 2022, and 24% of net sales in 2021.  Our top four customers accounted for approximately 44% and 42% of net sales in 2023 and 2022 respectively, and our top three customers accounted for approximately 37% of net sales in 2021.  We expect that a significant portion of our net sales will continue to be derived from a small number of customers and that these percentages may increase if the growth of mass merchandisers continues.  As a result, changes in the strategies of Walmart or any of our other largest customers, including a reduction in the number of brands they carry or of shelf space they dedicate to private label products, could materially harm our net sales and profitability.  Changes in consumer behavior, including continued shifting to online shopping instead of physical retail shopping, could also impact our sales to our largest customers.  Some of our retail customers have experienced and may experience in the future declining financial performance, which could affect their ability to pay amounts due to us on a timely basis or at all. If these impacts are prolonged, they can further increase the difficulty of planning for operations. Moreover, the use of evolving technology by our customers to develop more complex pricing models may lead to category pricing pressures.  We could also lose a significant customer due to customer service levels or real or perceived product quality or appearance issues.  As our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders rather than long-term contracts and most customer agreements include customer termination rights after short notice, many of our customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease buying products from us at any time and for any reason. 16 • Decreases in demand for our products would decrease our sales and profitability. Factors that can affect demand include competitors’ products, advertising and pricing actions, inflationary pressures, rates of unemployment, consumer confidence, health care costs, including increased costs as a result of changes in federal regulations, significant shifts in government policies, the deterioration of economic or trade relations between countries or regions, commodity costs, fuel and other energy costs and other economic factors affecting consumer spending behavior, including gasoline and home heating oil pricing, reduced unemployment benefits in periods of high unemployment, restrictions on travel and access to public spaces, and changes in tax policies, other effects of governmental shutdowns or a lapse of appropriations or fear of exposure to or actual impacts of a widespread disease outbreak.  In particular, we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from sales of laundry detergent, and the continued customer demand for these products are critical to our future success. Some products have seen decreasing demand in recent years, including condoms, as a result of demographic and other changes.  We believe that inflation and recessionary concerns are continuing to drive a decline in consumer spending for our most discretionary brands, Waterpik and Flawless, as consumers reduce spending in these categories and shift to lower cost alternatives.    Most notably, a growing number of water flosser consumers are continuing to switch to competitors' value-branded products.  Moreover, in our vitamin business, we are experiencing residual impacts from previous vitamin-specific supply chain challenges that resulted in increased shelf space and/ or display for certain of our competitors.  In addition, our Specialty Products business has been negatively impacted by the return of foreign competition in the United States dairy market. An increasing number of our products are more discretionary in nature and, therefore are more likely to be affected by consumer decisions to control spending. • We rely on the policies of our key retailer customers. Larger and increasingly consolidated retailers have increasing influence, and have sought to obtain lower pricing, special packaging inventory practices, logistics or other changes to the customer-supplier relationship as a result of this influence.  To the extent we provide concessions or better trade terms to those customers, our profit margins are reduced.  Further, if we are unable to effectively respond to the demands of our customers, these customers could reduce their purchases of our products and increase their purchases of products from competitors.  Reductions in inventory by our customers, including as a result of consolidation in the retail industry, or these customers managing their working capital requirements, could result in reduced orders for our products and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows for financial periods affected by such reductions. Protracted unfavorable market conditions have caused many of our customers to more critically analyze the number of brands they sell, and reduce or discontinue certain of our product lines, particularly those products that were not number one or two in their category. In addition, private label and retail-branded products sold by retail trade chains are typically sold at lower prices than branded products.  As consumers look for opportunities to decrease discretionary spending, our customers have discontinued or reduced distribution of some of our products to encourage those consumers to purchase the customers’ less expensive and, in some cases, more profitable private label and retail-branded products (primarily in the dietary supplements, diagnostic kits and oral analgesics categories). • We have pursued and may continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and divestitures. We may continue to pursue and consummate additional acquisitions, divestitures or substantial investments in complementary businesses or products in the future.    However, we may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate suitable strategic acquisition at attractive valuations, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms or otherwise complete future acquisitions.  Potential acquisitions may be significantly larger than the ones completed in the past and may require us to increase our levels of debt, potentially resulting in us being assigned a lower credit rating. Recent increases in interest rates may make it more difficult to borrow at attractive rates. In recent periods, competition from other consumer products companies that are seeking similar opportunities has been particularly strong, and valuations for potential acquisition assets have been high, which has placed pressure on our ability to identify, structure and execute transactions.  In addition, acquisitions and investments entail various risks, including the difficulty of entering new markets, product categories, or business models, the challenges of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses or products, the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the ongoing business of the acquired company, the need to review and, if necessary, upgrade processes and systems of the acquired company to conform to our own processes and systems and applicable legal and regulatory requirements, managing an increasingly broad and complex range of businesses and products,  and, generally, our potential inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment. Any of these risks may divert management and other resources, require us to incur unanticipated costs or delay the anticipated positive impact on our business and results of the acquisition.  The risks associated with assimilation are increased to the extent we acquire businesses that have stand-alone operations or businesses that are in new categories that cannot easily be integrated or operations or sources of supply outside of the U.S. and Canada, for which products are manufactured locally by third parties. Acquired companies or operations or newly-created ventures may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made.  In addition, future acquisitions or investments could result in substantial cash expenditures, the potentially 17 dilutive issuances of new equity by us or the incurrence of additional debt or business acquisition liabilities, or the assumption of contingent liabilities, such as those relating to advertising claims, environmental issues and litigation. • Market category declines and changes to our product and geographic mix may impact the achievement of our sales growth targets, planned pricing and financial results. A significant percentage of our revenues come from mature markets that are subject to high levels of competition.  During 2023, approximately 83% of our sales were generated in U.S. markets.  U.S. markets for consumer products are considered mature and commonly characterized by high household penetration, particularly with respect to our most significant product categories, such as laundry detergents, deodorizers, household cleaning products, toothpastes, dietary supplements, antiperspirants and deodorants.  Our ability to quickly innovate to adapt our products (including product packaging and sustainability profiles) to meet changing consumer demands is essential, especially in light of e-commerce significantly reducing the barriers for even small competitors to quickly introduce new brands and products directly to consumers. Even if we are successful in increasing sales within our product categories, a continuing or accelerating decline in the overall markets for our products could have a negative impact on our financial results.  We have implemented price increases and may implement additional price increases in the future, which may slow sales growth or create volume declines in the short term as customers and consumers adjust to these price increases. In addition, our Specialty Products business has been negatively impacted by the entrance of new foreign competition in the United States dairy market. We expect that low-priced imports will continue to enter the market. Our Specialty Products Division declined in 2023, largely due to declining sales of our MEGALAC dairy supplement within our Animal Nutrition business.  We will be exiting this part of the Animal Nutrition business during the first quarter of 2024. Adverse economic conditions continue to impact a portion of our businesses. We believe that inflation and recessionary concerns are continuing to drive a decline in consumer spending for our most discretionary brands, Waterpik and Flawless, as consumers reduce spending in these categories and shift to lower cost alternatives. Most notably, a growing number of water flosser consumers are continuing to switch to competitors' value-branded products. Moreover, in our vitamin business, we are experiencing residual impacts from previous vitamin-specific supply chain challenges that resulted in increased shelf space and/ or display for certain of our competitors.  Overall, we have continued to experience increased online sales.  Potential recessionary economic conditions may impact consumer demand for certain of our products and put downward pressure on product prices. • New products and product line extensions may not gain widespread customer acceptance, may be otherwise discontinued, or cause sales of existing products to decline. Our future performance and growth depend on our ability to successfully identify, develop and introduce new products, product line extensions, products in adjacent categories to our current products, and anticipate changes in consumer preferences.  In addition, some of our products have shorter product life spans and depend heavily on our ability to continuously and timely introduce innovative new products to the marketplace.  The successful development and introduction of new products involves substantial research, development, marketing and promotional expenditures, which we may be unable to recover if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance.  New product development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product categories in which we have limited or no prior experience, have inherent risks.  These risks include product development or launch delays, competitor actions, regulatory approval hurdles and the failure of new products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance.  In addition, sales generated by new products could result in an associated decline in sales of existing products. Each year, we introduce new products across the majority of our brands, including launches into new “white space” categories.  However, there is no assurance that our new products will continue to have widespread acceptance.  Success in launching new products is also dependent on our ability to deliver effective and efficient marketing in an evolving media landscape (including digital), which is subject to dynamic and increasingly restrictive privacy requirements. If product introductions are not successful, costs associated with these efforts may not be fully recouped and our net earnings or margins could be adversely affected.  From time to time, we have discontinued certain products and product lines, which resulted in returns from customers, asset write-offs and shutdown costs.  We may suffer similar adverse consequences in the future to the extent we discontinue products that do not meet retailer or consumer expectations or no longer satisfy consumer demand. • We are subject to cost overruns and delays, regulatory requirements, and miscalculations in capacity needs with respect to our expansion projects and our manufacturing facilities, as well as disruptions to our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers and other suppliers. From time to time, we initiate planned and unplanned expansion projects with respect to our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers and other suppliers which are subject to risks of, and we have from time to time experienced, delay or cost overruns resulting from numerous factors, including the following: shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor; work stoppages; unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment; unanticipated cost increases; difficulties in obtaining necessary permits or in meeting permit conditions; difficulties in meeting regulatory or quality requirements or obtaining regulatory approvals; availability of suppliers to certify equipment for existing and enhanced regulations; design and engineering problems; failure or delay of third party service providers; and civil unrest, labor disputes, natural disasters and pandemics. If we were to experience delays or cost overruns in the future it could result in product 18 allocation and retailer frustration, the loss of a significant customer or customers and the material decrease of the sales of one or more of our products. In addition, we could miscalculate our anticipated capacity needs in any of our categories, such as our laundry detergent, cat litter and dietary supplement categories, including as a result of meeting the anticipated demand of our customers, or expansion into new product lines or into new markets. Additionally, the supply of our products depends on the uninterrupted efficient operation of our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers and other suppliers and our ability to meet customer service levels.  The manufacturing of certain of our products is concentrated in one or more of our plants, contract manufacturers or other suppliers, with limited alternate qualified facilities available.  Many of our manufacturing processes and those of our contract manufacturers and other suppliers are complex and present difficult technical challenges to obtain the manufacturing yields necessary to operate profitably and may require complex and specialized equipment which can be expensive to repair or replace with required lead times of up to a year. Any event that disrupts or otherwise negatively impacts manufacturing facilities, manufacturing systems or equipment, or contract manufacturers or other suppliers could result in the delivery of inferior products or our ability to meet customer requirements or service levels. • We rely on a number of contract manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain products, and supply chain issues may result in product shortages or disruptions to the Company’s business. We rely on a number of contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain of our commodities and raw materials, including sole source suppliers for certain of our raw materials, packaging, product components, finished products and other necessary supplies.  New suppliers must be qualified pursuant to our standards and may also have to be qualified under governmental and industry standards and any other standards of our customers, which can require additional investment and time.  We could experience material disruptions in production and other supply chain issues, largely because of shortages in supplier labor which continues to impact the availability of many raw and packaging materials, which continues to result in out-of-stock conditions.  In addition, continued out-of-stock supplies or products due to supply chain issues may cause our customers to switch to competitors’ products that are more available.  Moreover, our relationships with customers could be adversely affected if new or existing suppliers are unable to meet any standards set by us, government or industry regulations, or our  customers, if we are unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business, if any of our key suppliers becomes insolvent, ceases or significantly reduces its operations or experiences financial distress, or if any environmental, economic or other outside factors impact its operations.  We may be unable to qualify any needed new contract manufacturers or suppliers or maintain supplier arrangements and relationships based on a variety of factors; we may be unable to contract with suppliers at the quantity, quality and price levels needed for our business; certain of our suppliers may not meet the standards of our customers or licensors; or certain of our key contract manufacturers or suppliers may become insolvent or experience other financial distress or face closure or suspension of operations.  If any of these events occurs and we have failed to identify and qualify an alternative vendor, then we may be unable to meet our contractual obligations and customer expectations, which could damage our reputation and result in lost customers and sales, or the incurrence of fines or higher than expected expenses.  Further, in recent years, we have experienced continuing strain on our supply chain network and its ability to meet demands, including from disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East, and other factors. In addition, our supply chain is dependent on materials, components and other products from Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. • Reduced availability of transportation or disruptions in our transportation network could adversely affect us. We distribute our products and receive raw materials and packaging components primarily by truck, rail and ship and through various ports of entry.  Reduced availability of trucking, rail or shipping capacity due to labor shortages, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, including climatic events (including any potential effect of climate change), allocation of assets to other industries or geographies or otherwise, work stoppages, closure of operations due to government restrictions or sick employees or other impacts of pandemics, strikes or shutdowns of ports of entry or such transportation sources, could lead to inflationary cost pressures, cause us to incur unanticipated expenses and impair our ability to distribute our products or receive our raw materials or packaging components in a timely manner, which could disrupt our operations, strain our customer relationships and competitive position. • Damage to the reputation of one or more of our leading brands could adversely affect us. Our financial success is directly dependent on the reputation and success of our brands, particularly our power brands.  Seven of those brands are designated as "power brands" because they compete in large categories, and we believe they have the potential for significant global expansion.  Those seven brands are ARM & HAMMER®; OXICLEAN®; VITAFUSION® and L’IL CRITTERS®; BATISTE®; WATERPIK®; THERABREATH®; and HERO® and represent approximately 70% of our net sales and profits.  The effectiveness of these brands could suffer if our marketing plans or product initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand’s image or its ability to attract consumers.  Our brands could suffer damage to their reputations due to real or perceived, sustainability, quality or safety issues, including as a result of, among other things, significant product recalls, product-related litigation, defects or impurities in our products, product misuse, changing consumer perceptions of certain ingredients or environmental impacts (including packaging, energy and water use and waste 19 management), or allegations of product tampering.  In addition, as our sales on various e-commerce platforms grow, we may be unable to prevent sales of counterfeit, pirated, or stolen goods, unlawful or unethical sales, unauthorized resellers online, or sales in violation of our policies. Additionally, claims made in our marketing campaigns may become subject to litigation alleging false advertising and could cause us to alter our marketing plans and may affect sales or result in the imposition of significant damages against us. Widespread use of social media and networking sites by consumers has greatly increased the accessibility and speed of dissemination of negative information.  Negative online consumer reviews or inaccurate posting or comments about us or our brands in the media or on any social networking website, whether accurate or inaccurate, or the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through social media, could generate adverse publicity that could damage the reputation of our brands.  In addition, given the association of our individual products with us, an issue with one of our products could negatively affect the reputation of our other products, or us as a whole. • We are subject to risks related to our expansion and international operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to continue to grow our sales and profits is dependent on expanding in the locations in which we already do business and entering into new geographic locations, both of which require significant resources and investments which would affect our risk profile.  Further, our international operations subject us to risks customarily associated with foreign operations, including: • Changing macroeconomic conditions in our markets, including as a result of inflation, interest rates, volatile commodity prices and increases in the cost of raw and packaging materials, labor, energy and logistics, which could impact our manufacturing operations and that of our third-party partners; • currency fluctuations; • the Russia/Ukraine war and ongoing and new conflicts in the Middle East; • widespread health emergencies, such as COVID-19 or other pandemics or epidemics; • import and export license and taxation requirements and restrictions; • trade restrictions, including local investment or exchange control regulations; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • the effect of foreign income taxes, value-added taxes and withholding taxes, including the inability to recover amounts owed to us by foreign governments, and the determination of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “I.R.S.”) regarding the applicability of certain regulations, including those promulgated under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, to our international transactions; • the possibility of expropriation, confiscatory taxation or price controls; • restrictions on or the costs related to repatriating foreign profits back to the U.S.; • political or economic instability, and civil unrest; • potential disruption from wars and military conflicts, including the war in Ukraine, terrorism or other types of violence; • disruptions in the global transportation network, such as work stoppages, strikes or shutdowns of ports of entry or such other transportation sources, or other labor unrest; • extreme weather events resulting in power loss, damage to infrastructure and reduced economic development in vulnerable areas; • compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business practices, including without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United Kingdom Bribery Act; • difficulty in enforcing contractual and intellectual property rights; • regulatory and quality system requirements for certain products; and • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations. 20 Major developments in trade relations, including the imposition of new or increased tariffs or sanctions by the U.S. and/or other countries, and any emerging nationalist trends in specific countries could alter the trade environment and consumer purchasing.  All the foregoing risks could have a significant impact on our ability to commercialize our products on a competitive basis in international markets. In addition, in all foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions.  The recent imposition of tariffs on products imported from certain countries in recent years has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to trade policies and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries. The sanctions introduced in response to the Ukraine conflict have further exacerbated these issues.  Major developments in trade relations, including the imposition of new or increased tariffs by the U.S. and/or other countries, and any emerging nationalist trends in specific countries could alter the trade environment and consumer purchasing behavior which, in turn, could have a material effect on our balance sheet and results of operations.  All the foregoing risks could have a significant impact on our ability to commercialize our products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows or financial position. • Failure to effectively utilize or successfully assert intellectual property rights, and the loss or expiration of such rights, could materially adversely affect our competitiveness.  Infringement by us of third-party intellectual property rights could result in costly litigation and/or the modification or discontinuance of our products. We rely on trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property rights. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the value associated with our trademarks and brand names.  We own the material trademarks and brand names used in connection with the marketing and distribution of our major products both in the U.S. and in other countries.  While we hold several valuable patents on our products, they may not serve as an effective barrier to entry for new competitors.  Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we cannot be sure that our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or effectively utilized or, if necessary, successfully asserted.  There is a risk that we will not be able to obtain and perfect our own intellectual property rights, or, where appropriate, license from others intellectual property rights necessary to support our ability to manufacture, import, export, market and/or sell certain products in certain countries or globally or launch new product.  We cannot be sure that these rights, if obtained, will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged in the future, and we could incur significant costs in connection with legal actions relating to such rights.  In addition, even if such rights are obtained in the U.S., the laws of some of the other countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.  If other parties infringe our intellectual property rights, they may dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace, which could diminish the value that consumers associate with our brands and harm our sales.  Our failure to perfect, successfully assert or license intellectual property rights could make us less competitive and could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to manufacture, import, export, market and/or sell certain products within certain countries or globally, our operating results and our financial condition. In addition, if our products are found to infringe intellectual property rights of others, the owners of those rights could bring legal actions against us claiming substantial damages for past infringement and seeking to enjoin manufacturing, importing, exporting, marketing and/or sale of the affected products in certain countries or globally.  If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages from past infringement, we could be required to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture, import, export, market and/or sell the affected products, in certain countries or globally potentially adding significant costs.  We might not prevail in any action brought against us or we may be unsuccessful in securing any license for continued use and therefore have to discontinue the manufacture, importing, exporting, marketing and/or sale of a product in certain countries or globally. • Impairment of our goodwill and other long-lived intangible and tangible assets may result in a reduction in net income. We have a material amount of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets, as well as other long-lived tangible assets, which are periodically evaluated for impairment in accordance with current accounting standards.  Declines in our profitability and/or estimated cash flows related to specific intangible assets, as well as potential changes in market valuations for similar assets and market discount rates, has resulted in impairment charges from time to time, and may result in future impairment charges.  In the fourth quarter of 2022, we determined that a review of our ability to recover the carrying value of the global FINISHING TOUCH FLAWLESS intangible assets was necessary based on the discontinuance of certain products at a major retailer. This loss of distribution along with an expected continued decline in discretionary consumption and higher interest rates resulted in an impairment charge as discussed in more detail in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 21 Regulatory and Litigation Risks • We may be subject to product liability claims, withdrawals or recalls or other legal proceedings and from time to time we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. From time to time, we are subject to product liability or other product-related claims.  We may be required to pay for losses or injuries actually or purportedly caused by our products, including losses or injuries caused by raw materials or other components provided by third party suppliers that are included in our products.  Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, our products contain contaminants, are improperly tested, labeled or designed, or provide inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings of potential dangers related to their use.  Whether or not successful, product liability claims could result in negative publicity that could harm our sales and operating results and the reputation of our brands.  In addition, if one of our products is found to be defective or non-compliant with applicable rules or regulations, we could be required to withdraw or recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses.  Although we maintain product liability and product recall insurance coverage, potential product liability or other product-related damages claims and/or withdrawal and recall costs may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy. • Litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain could entail significant expense. From time to time, we are the subject of, or party to, various pending or threatened legal actions (including class actions), government investigations and proceedings, including, without limitation, those relating to, commercial transactions, product liability, consumer, employment, antitrust, environmental, health, safety and compliance-related matters.  Such proceedings are subject to many uncertainties and the outcome of certain pending or threatened legal actions, investigations and proceedings may not be reasonably predictable and any related damages, injunctions and/or settlements may not be estimable. • Environmental matters create potential liability risks. We must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including those relating to the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances.  A release of such substances due to accident or an intentional act could result in substantial liability to governmental authorities or to third parties.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and regulations. • Increasing focus and sensitivity by governmental, non-governmental organizations, customers, consumers and investors to ESG issues, including those related to DEI, climate change, plastic usage and ingredients, could result in increased operating or manufacturing costs and compliance challenges, which could adversely affect our business. As climate change and other ESG issues become more prominent, so has scrutiny by federal, state and local governments, non-governmental organizations and our customers, consumers and investors.   This will likely result in new or increased regulatory requirements such as the SEC’s disclosure proposal on climate change and various state-level Extended Producer Responsibility programs, California’s recently enacted climate reporting legislation, and customer and consumer standards.  In addition, our stakeholders are increasingly demanding transparency regarding our DEI efforts as well as our efforts to mitigate our impacts on climate change, and to eliminate chemicals of concern and otherwise reduce or mitigate adverse effects on the environment. For example, some of our major customers have requested we respond to various questionnaires, including the CDP Climate Change, Water and Forests Questionnaires, and use our responses and CDP scores to evaluate us.  Compliance with these requirements, standards and disclosure requests may be challenging and could cause disruptions in the manufacture of our products and/or result in increases in operating costs, and additional legal, compliance and regulatory risks and costs.  We may also be required to contribute funds to support recycling and other waste management infrastructure, and/or incur costs associated with making necessary changes to our operations and controlling, assessing and reporting on certain ESG metrics.  These disruptions and additional costs could make our products more costly and less competitive than other products, which would adversely affect our business. • Any failure to achieve our ESG goals or to effectively respond to new or current legal, regulatory or stakeholder ESG requirements could adversely affect our business and reputation. While we strive to minimize adverse impacts of our global operations, our ability to achieve any stated ESG goal, target, or objective is subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control. We could lose revenue if our consumers change brands, major retailers delist our products or our retail customers move business from us because we have not effectively responded to regulatory requirements, complied with their ESG requirements or met their expectations related to our sustainability efforts, including with respect to DEI, climate change, plastic usage, or ingredients. In addition, our actual or perceived failure to achieve or make sufficient progress towards our stated ESG goals or comply with ESG related regulations could result in litigation, regulatory scrutiny or adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation, reduce consumer demand and devalue our brand equity. Further, ESG-conscious investors may 22 choose not to invest in our securities if we do not comply with their expectations, and investment managers may not include our securities in ESG-designated funds. • Current and future laws and regulations in the countries in which we and our suppliers operate could expose us to increased costs and other adverse consequences. The development, manufacturing, processing, formulation (including stability), packaging, labeling, marketing, distribution and sale of our products are subject to regulation by federal agencies, including the U.S. FDA, the FTC, the EPA and the CPSC and foreign regulators and agencies.  In addition, our and our suppliers’ operations are subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the National Labor Relations Board.  Our activities are also regulated by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products and their constituent materials and components are manufactured and sold. In particular, the FDA and foreign counterparts regulate the formulation, safety, development, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of condoms, home pregnancy and ovulation test kits, vaginal lubricants, electric and battery powered medical devices, wound dressings, over-the-counter medicines and dietary supplements, including vitamins, minerals, and homeopathic products.  The FDA or a similar foreign agency also exercises oversight over cosmetic products such as depilatories, hair care and skin care products.  In addition, under a memorandum of understanding between the FDA and the FTC, the FTC has jurisdiction over the promotion and advertising of these products, and the FTC regulates the promotion and advertising of our other products as well.  As part of its regulatory authority, the FDA may periodically conduct inspections of the physical facilities, machinery, processes and procedures that we and our suppliers use to manufacture regulated products and may identify compliance issues that would require us and our suppliers to make certain changes in our manufacturing facilities and processes.  The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to regulatory action against the products made in that facility, including seizure, injunction or recall, as well as to possible action against the owner of the facility/manufacturer.  We may be required to make additional expenditures to address these issues or possibly stop selling certain products until the compliance issue has been remediated. Likewise, any future determination by the FDA, the EPA or a similar foreign agency, or by us in reviewing our compliance with applicable rules and regulations, that our products or quality systems do not comply with applicable regulations could result in future compliance activities, including product withdrawals or recalls, import detentions, injunctions preventing the shipment of products, or other enforcement actions.  For example, the FDA may determine that a particular claim that we use to support the marketing of a product is not substantiated, may not accept the evidence of safety for a new product that we may wish to market, may challenge the safety or effectiveness of existing products based on, among other things, changes in formulations, inadequate stability or “shelf-life,” consumer complaints, or improper labeling, may take action against our homeopathic products, such as our Zicam cold shortening products, on the basis that they are unapproved drugs, and may determine that our dietary supplement business manufacturing, packaging, labeling and holding operations do not comply with cGMPs.  Similarly, we may identify these or other issues in internal compliance reviews of our operations and the operations and products of vendors and acquired companies.  These other issues may include the identification of contaminants or non-compliant levels of particular ingredients.  Any of the foregoing could subject us to adverse publicity, force us to incur unanticipated costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Additionally, delays in the acceptance, review and approval of products by the FDA or the EPA, or other required governmental approvals, may result from government shutdowns due to the failure by Congress to enact regular appropriations. We are subject to regulations regarding the transportation, storage or use of certain chemicals to protect the environment, as well as the Commission’s rules with respect to “conflict minerals.”  Recent trade policies, tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries, as well as sanctions by the U.S. and the European Union in response to the Russia/Ukraine war, have introduced greater uncertainty and volatility. In addition, renewed significant governmental actions pertaining to pandemics or other health emergencies, including lockdowns, quarantines or other restrictions on the ability of our employees to travel or perform necessary business functions or our  ability to develop, manufacture, distribute, market or sell our products, or the ability of our suppliers, customers or third-party partners to effectively run their operations, may negatively impact our ability to manufacture, distribute, market and sell our products.  We are not able to predict the nature of these changes or of such future laws, regulations, repeals or interpretations or to predict the effect additional or shifting governmental regulation, when and if it occurs, would have on our business in the future.  Such developments could require reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, recalls or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional record-keeping requirements, increased documentation of the properties of certain products, additional or different labeling, additional scientific substantiation, expanded adverse event reporting or other new requirements. There is also an increased risk of fraud or corruption in certain foreign jurisdictions and related difficulties in maintaining effective internal controls. Additionally, we could be subject to future inquiries or investigations by governmental and other regulatory bodies, which may be delayed or disrupted due to any government furlough. We could also be adversely affected by violations, or allegations of violations, of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other third parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. 23 • We are subject to increasingly stringent privacy and security regulation. We collect, use and store personal data of our employees, customers and other third parties in the ordinary course of business, and we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy and security laws and regulations, that apply to the collection, storage, use, transmission and protection of personal information and other consumer and employee data, including particularly the transfer of personal data between or among countries.  High-profile security breaches of the information systems of a number of government agencies and U.S. companies may result in increased regulations and new security laws. The current administration and Congress in the United States may seek to pass more stringent regulations in these areas, or more aggressively enforce existing regulations. Numerous local, municipal, state, federal and international law and regulations address privacy and security including the California Online Privacy Protection Act, the Personal information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing (CAN-SPAM) Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), Section 5© of the Federal Trade Commission Act, and,  the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA).  These privacy and security laws and regulations change frequently, and new legislation continues to be introduced such as the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), which was effective on January 1, 2022 and modifies the CCPA significantly, as well as the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, the Colorado Privacy Act, Utah Consumer Privacy Act and Connecticut Data Privacy Act which became effective in 2023.  In particular, the CCPA requires new disclosures to California consumers, gives California consumers new rights with respect to their data, and permits California consumers to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. The CCPA provides for fines of up to $7,500 per violation.  Our website ecommerce and customer relations businesses that store, process or transmit payment cardholder data are subject to be Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance requirements as mandated by the credit card companies (Visa, Mastercard, and American Express) and the Payment Card Institute Data Security Standard (PCI-DSS). In Europe, the European Union ("EU") has adopted strict data privacy regulations. Following the passage of the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation ((EU) 2016/679) (“GDPR”) and the Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications (the “ePrivacy Regulation”), data privacy and security compliance in the EU are increasingly complex and challenging. The GDPR in particular has broad extraterritorial effect and imposes a strict data protection compliance regime with significant penalties for non-compliance (up to 4% of worldwide annual turnover or €20 million, whichever is higher). It is also important to note that many countries are following the EU in producing a broad omnibus law in relation to privacy protection.  In general, the GDPR and ePrivacy Regulation, CCPA, and other local privacy laws, could also require adaptation of our technologies or practices, increased costs and changes to operations to satisfy local privacy requirements and standards. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines, penalties or orders to cease, delay or modify collection, use or transfers of personal data. We could also face rights requests, complaints, claims, or litigation from those persons whose data we collect, use and store as well as government investigations and fines. Any of these events or other circumstances related to our collection, use and transfer of personal data could also lead to negative media attention, damage to our reputation in the market or otherwise adversely affect our business. • Changes in tax laws and regulations or in our operations may impact our effective tax rate and may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in or the interpretation tax laws and regulations, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, or changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities.  In addition, we evaluate our deferred income tax assets and record a valuation allowance if it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  If the actual amount of our future taxable income is less than the amount we are currently projecting with respect to specific tax jurisdictions, or if there is a change in the time period within which the deferred tax asset becomes deductible, we could be required to record a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.  The recording of a valuation allowance would result in an increase in our effective tax rate and would have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, which would also impact our effective tax rate. On October 4, 2021, members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) agreed to a global minimum tax rate of 15%. On December 20, 2021, OECD published its model rules on the agreed minimum tax known as the Global Anti-Base Erosion (“GloBE”) rules.  The GloBE Rules consist of an interlocking and coordinated system of rules which are designed to be implemented into the domestic law of each jurisdiction and operate together to ensure large multinational enterprise groups are subject to a minimum effective tax rate of 15% on any excess profits arising in each jurisdiction where they operate.  On December 15, 2022, the European Council approved its directive to implement Pillar Two of the GloBE rules regarding a 15% global minimum tax rate.   Japan and South Korea have enacted domestic Pillar Two legislation, and many other countries, including the UK, Switzerland, Ireland and Germany, have released draft legislation or publicly announced their plans to introduce legislation based on the OECD Model Rules. Many aspects of Pillar Two will be effective for tax years beginning in January 2024, with certain remaining impacts to be effective in 2025.  Based on current legislation and available guidance, we have evaluated the impact of Pillar Two and determined there is no impact to the company.  As Pillar Two legislation evolves and countries enact new legislation, we will continue to evaluate Pillar Two and Pillar Two may increase our future effective tax rate. 24 • Resolutions of tax disputes may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions.  We provide for uncertain tax positions with respect to tax positions that do not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards mandated by applicable accounting guidance.  Fluctuations in federal, state, local and foreign taxes or changes to uncertain tax positions, including related interest and penalties, may impact our effective tax rate and our financial results.  We are regularly under audit by tax authorities, and although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of tax audits and related litigation could be materially different than that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.  In addition, when particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved.  Favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution.  Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the effective tax rate.  Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. • Our amended and restated bylaws include an exclusive forum provision. Our amended and restated bylaws include an “exclusive forum" provision, which may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers.  If a court outside of Delaware were to find this exclusive forum provision inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings described above, we could incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cash flows. Financial Risks • We have substantial indebtedness and we may incur substantially more debt in the future. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $2.406.0 million of total consolidated indebtedness, net of debt issuance costs.  This amount of indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; • limiting our ability to fund potential acquisitions; • requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in reacting to general adverse economic conditions or changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limiting our ability to repurchase our Common Stock; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. Additionally, our term and revolving facilities are subject to certain financial and other customary covenants.  In the event of a breach of those covenants, our lenders under each credit facility may be entitled to accelerate the related debt (and any lenders in respect of any other debt to which a cross-default provision applies may be entitled to accelerate such other debt), and we could be required to seek amendments or waivers under the debt instruments or to refinance the debt.  We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, to repurchase shares or to fund other activities for general business purposes.  If additional new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify.  A substantial increase in our indebtedness could also have a negative impact on our credit ratings. In this regard, a deterioration in our credit ratings could adversely affect the interest rate available to us in future financings, as well as our liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets.  The U.S. Federal Reserve has raised interest rates consistently since March of 2022, and while it has signaled that it expects to hold rates steady or decrease rates in the future, additional increases or the failure to reduce rates could impact the interest rates available to us for borrowings in the future.  Any decision regarding future borrowings will be based on the facts and circumstances existing at the time, including market conditions and impact to our credit ratings. Each of our term and revolving credit facilities use Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) based rates following the phase out of LIBOR. Given the inherent differences between LIBOR and SOFR or any other alternative benchmark rate that may be established, there are additional uncertainties regarding a transition from LIBOR, including but not limited to the impact this transition may have on the cost of our variable rate debt and certain derivative financial instruments.  Since the initial publication of SOFR in 2018, changes in SOFR have, on occasion, been more volatile than changes in other benchmark or market rates, such as United States dollar LIBOR. 25 • Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency fluctuations. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk (both transaction and translation) with respect to our sales, profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar.  Outside of the U.S., sales and costs are denominated in a variety of currencies, including the Canadian Dollar, Euro, Pound, Mexican Peso, Australian Dollar and Chinese Yuan, among others.  A weakening of the currencies in which sales are generated relative to the currencies in which costs are denominated would decrease operating profits and cash flow.  Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we purchase materials and services in foreign markets.  Although we, from time to time, enter into forward exchange contracts to reduce the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations related to anticipated but not yet committed sales or purchases denominated in the U.S. Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Pound, Euro, Mexican Peso, Australian Dollar and Chinese Yuan, foreign currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • The estimates and assumptions on which our financial projections are based may prove to be inaccurate, which may cause our actual results to materially differ from such projections, which may adversely affect expectations regarding our future profitability and cash flows, which may impact our stock price. Our financial projections, including, among other things, any sales or earnings guidance or outlook we may provide from time to time, are dependent on certain estimates and assumptions related to, among other things, category growth, development and launch of innovative new products, market share projections, product pricing and sale, volume and product mix, foreign exchange rates and volatility, tax rates, commodity prices, distribution, cost savings, accruals for estimated liabilities, including litigation reserves, measurement of benefit obligations for pension and other postretirement benefit plans, and our ability, among other things, to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, repurchase our stock, make acquisitions, pay dividends and meet our debt obligations. Our financial projections are based, among other things, on historical experience, various other estimates and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made, and our actual results may differ materially from our financial projections. Any material variation between our financial projections and our actual results may adversely affect expectations regarding our future profitability and cash flow, which may impact our stock price. General Risks • Our operating results have been, and could be in the future, adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events, or unfavorable worldwide, regional and local economic and financial market conditions. Our operations, as well as the operations of our third-party manufacturers, suppliers and customers, may be subject to disruption from a variety of causes, including a protracted economic downturn or recessionary conditions, material shortages, inflation, financial difficulties, work stoppages, cyberattacks, and other disruptions in information technology systems, demonstrations, political instability or uncertainty in the U.S. or abroad, rising geopolitical tensions and hostilities (for example in the Middle East or between China and Taiwan), disease outbreaks or pandemics (for example, an outbreak of a virus such as COVID-19),  acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters, disruptions in logistics, fuel and energy costs (for example, the price of gasoline), loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, supplier capacity constraints, raw material and product quality or safety issues, industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues. If a major disruption were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment, delays in shipments of products to customers or suspension of operations. Other financial uncertainties in our major markets and unstable geopolitical conditions in certain markets, including civil unrest and governmental changes, could undermine global consumer confidence and reduce consumers’ purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products.  Restrictions on our ability to transfer earnings or capital across borders, price controls, limitations on profits, retaliatory tariffs, import authorization requirements and other restrictions on business activities which have been or may be imposed or expanded as a result of political and economic instability, deterioration of economic relations between countries or otherwise, could impact our profitability. In addition, U.S. trade sanctions against countries designated by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism and/or financial institutions accepting transactions for commerce within such countries could increase significantly, which could make it impossible for us to continue to make sales to customers in such countries. The imposition of retaliatory sanctions against U.S. multinational corporations by countries that are or may become subject to U.S. trade sanctions, or the delisting of our branded products by retailers in various countries in reaction to U.S. trade sanctions or other governmental action or policy, could also negatively affect our business. Ongoing political uncertainty in many countries, including the ongoing political transition in Hong Kong, and the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union have created additional economic uncertainty and volatility in the financial markets.  In February 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine, and in October 2023 hostilities increased between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip,  and we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, the indirect impacts of the conflict in Ukraine, including increases in the cost of raw and packaging materials and commodities (including the price of oil), supply chain and logistics challenges and foreign currency volatility, and it is not possible to predict the broader or longer-term consequences of this conflict or the sanctions imposed to date. Increasing natural disasters in connection with climate change could also be a direct threat to our third-party vendors, service providers or other stakeholders, including disruptions of supply chains or information technology or other necessary services for our Company. 26 • We rely significantly on information technology.  Any inadequacy, interruption, theft or loss of data, malicious attack, integration failure, failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data residing on our systems or other security failure of that technology could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and damage the reputation of our brands. We rely extensively on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third-party service providers, to conduct our business.  These systems include, but are not limited to, programs and processes relating to internal communications and communications with other parties, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping product to customers, billing customers and receiving and applying payment, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor, and other stakeholder information and personal data, and other processes necessary to manage our business.  We sell certain of our products directly to consumers online and through websites, mobile apps and connected devices, and we offer promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and we or our vendors could experience cyber-attacks, privacy breaches, data breaches or other incidents that may result in unauthorized access, disclosure and misuse of consumer, customer, employee, vendor or Company information. Increased information technology security threats and more sophisticated computer crime, including ransomware, denial of service and phishing attacks and advanced persistent threats, pose a potential risk to the security of our information technology systems, networks, and services, and those of our customers and other business partners, as well as the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data, and the data of our customers and other business partners.  The rapid evolution and increased adoption of artificial intelligence technologies may intensify our cybersecurity risks.  As a result, our information technology systems, networks or service providers could be damaged or cease to function properly or we could suffer a loss or disclosure of business, personal or stakeholder information, due to any number of causes, including catastrophic events, power outages and security breaches.  Although we have business continuity plans in place and have implemented a breach response plan to address cybersecurity incidents, if these plans do not provide effective alternative processes on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct our operations which may adversely affect our business. In addition, if our service providers, suppliers or customers experience a breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in our supply chain or reduced customer orders or other business operations.  Moreover, any costs related to a breach may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or be excluded under the terms of our cybersecurity policy.   As cyberattacks increase in frequency and magnitude, we may be unable to obtain cybersecurity insurance in amounts and on terms we view as appropriate for our operations. Our information technology systems and, our third-party providers’ systems, have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to advanced computer viruses or other malicious codes, ransomware, unauthorized access attempts, denial of service attacks, phishing, social engineering, hacking and other cyberattacks. These risks also may be present to the extent any of our partners, distributors, joint venture partners or suppliers using separate information systems, not integrated with our information systems, suffers a cybersecurity incident and could result in increased costs related to their inability to timely deliver on their commitments to us and/or our involvement in investigations or notifications conducted by these third parties. These risks may also be present to the extent a business we have acquired that does not use our information systems, experiences a system shutdown, service disruption, or cybersecurity incident. Due to the conflict in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war, there is a possibility that the escalation of tensions could result in cyberattacks that could either directly or indirectly affect our operations.  Such attacks may originate from nation states or attempts by outside parties, hackers, criminal organizations or other threat actors.  In addition, insider actors-malicious or otherwise-could cause technical disruptions and/or confidential data leakage. To date, we have seen no material impact on our business or operations from these attacks; however, we cannot guarantee that our security efforts will prevent attacks and resulting breaches or breakdowns of our, or our third-party service providers’ databases or systems.  In recent months, several of our peer or similarly situated companies have experienced cybersecurity incidents.  In addition, although we have policies and procedures in place governing cybersecurity risk, the secure storage of personal information collected by us or our third-party service providers, data breaches due to human error or intentional or unintentional conduct may occur in the future, especially as we have shifted to more employees and other workers working remotely and having access to our technology infrastructure remotely. We continuously perform enterprise-wide upgrades to our systems and will continue to monitor and upgrade systems as appropriate, legacy systems may be vulnerable to increased risk. Additionally, if a new system does not function properly, it could affect our ability to order supplies, process and deliver customer orders and process and receive payments for our products. This could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.  Upgraded or new technology may not function as designed and any such upgrades may not go as planned.  Moreover, because the techniques, tools and tactics used in cyberattacks frequently change and may be difficult to detect for periods of time, we may face difficulties in anticipating and implementing adequate preventative measures or fully mitigating harms after such an attack. As such, we may need to expend additional resources and incur additional costs in the future to continue to protect against or address problems caused by any business interruptions or data security breaches.  Cyber threats are becoming more sophisticated, are constantly evolving and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives, and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and data protection standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards and contractual obligations.  Increased regulation of data collection, use, and retention practices, including self-regulation and industry standards, changes in existing laws and regulations, including reporting requirements, enactment of new laws and regulations, increased enforcement activity, and changes in interpretation of laws, could increase our cost of compliance and operation, limit our ability to grow our business or otherwise harm our business. 27 • We may not be able to attract, retain and develop key personnel. The labor market in the United States is very competitive.  Our future performance depends in significant part upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel, including at our plants. Competition for qualified plant personnel remain intense.  The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.  This effect could be exacerbated if any officers or other keyleft as a group or at the same time.  Our success also depends, in part, on our continuing ability to attract, retain and develop highly qualified personnel and diverse workforce.  Competition for such talent remains, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, and the U.S. labor market has experienced wage inflation, sustained labor shortages, and a shift towards remote work.  Factors that may affect our ability to attract and retain sufficient numbers of key employees include employee morale, our reputation, competition from other employers and the availability of qualified personnel in a tightening labor market. We experienced an increase in labor turnover in 2021 (20.6%) and 2022 (21.5%) but saw this ease in 2023 (17.6%). We may continue to experience increased personnel turnover in the future compared to 2023, either as a result of our business operations or other broad-based economic or cultural factors. In addition, labor costs in the U.S. are rising. Labor cost is one of the primary components in the cost of operating our business. If we face labor shortages and increased labor costs as a result of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates, increases in employee benefits costs, or labor union organizing efforts, our operating expenses could increase and our growth and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Labor shortages, higher employee turnover rates and labor union organizing efforts could also lead to disruptions in our business. We may be unable to increase prices of our products in order to pass future increased labor costs onto our customers, in which case our margins would be negatively affected. Additionally, if we increase product prices to cover increased labor costs, the higher prices could adversely affect sales volumes. • Our continued growth and expansion, reliance on third-party service providers and implementation of new accounting standards could adversely affect our internal control over financial reporting. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of our financial statements would be prevented or detected. Our continuing growth and expansion in domestic and globally dispersed markets, such as our acquisition of the ZICAM, THERABREATH, HERO and other businesses, may place significant additional pressure on our system of internal control over financial reporting and require us to update our internal control over financial reporting to integrate such acquisitions. Moreover, we engage the services of third parties to assist with business operations and financial reporting processes, which injects additional monitoring obligations and risk into the system of internal control, including as a result of cyberattacks. When we are required to comply with new or revised accounting standards, we must make any appropriate changes to our internal control over financial reporting to fully implement the standards, which may require significant effort and judgment. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our results of operations accurately and on a timely basis, or to detect and prevent fraud and could expose us to regulatory enforcement action and stockholder claims. • The COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected and could continue to negatively affect our business by causing or contributing to, among other things: • Significant disruptions in business operations and in the ability of significant third-party vendors, manufacturing and other business or commercial partners, including customers, to meet their obligations to us; • Significant decrease or volatility in sales of or demand for our primary products due to the transition from a pandemic to endemic state; • Worldwide, regional and local adverse economic and financial market conditions, all of which could impact our manufacturing operations or that of our third-party partners; • Adverse impacts on the supply chain, including manufacturing by us or our third-party partners, due to raw material, packaging or other supply shortages, labor shortages or reduced availability of commercial transport and port operational disruptions; and • Sustained labor shortages or increased turnover rates. 28 Although the World Health Organization and the federal government have declared an end to COVID-19 as a global and national health emergency, respectively, risks related to COVID-19 have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. • Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of stockholder activism, an unsolicited takeover proposal or a proxy contest or short sellers. In recent years, proxy contests, unsolicited takeovers and other forms of stockholder activism have been directed against numerous companies in our industry, including us.  If such a campaign or proposal were to be made against us, we would likely incur significant costs. Stockholder activists may also seek to involve themselves in the governance, strategic direction and operations of our business, or in our ESG and sustainability management and disclosure, through stockholder proposals or otherwise disrupting our business and diverting the attention of our management and employees, and any perceived uncertainties as to our future direction resulting from such a situation could result in the loss of potential business opportunities, the perception that we need a change in the direction of our business, or the perception that we are unstable or lack continuity, which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel and business partners.  Actions of activist stockholders may cause significant fluctuations in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.  We may also be the target of short sellers who engage in negative publicity campaigns that may use selective information that may be presented out of context or that may misrepresent facts and circumstances. 29

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements. OVERVIEW Our Business We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of consumer household, personal care and specialty products.   Our well-recognized brands include ARM & HAMMER® baking soda, cat litter, laundry detergent, carpet deodorizer and other baking soda-based products; OXICLEAN® stain removers, cleaning solutions, laundry detergents and bleach alternatives; VITAFUSION® and L’IL CRITTERS® gummy dietary supplements for adults and children, respectively; BATISTE® dry shampoo; WATERPIK® water flossers and showerheads; THERABREATH® oral care products; HERO® acne treatment products; TROJAN condoms, lubricants and vibrators; SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE home pregnancy and ovulation test kits; NAIR depilatories; ORAJEL oral analgesic; XTRA laundry detergent; and ZICAM cold shortening and relief products.  Seven of those brands are designated as "power brands" because they compete in large categories, and we believe they have the potential for significant global expansion.  Those seven brands are ARM & HAMMER®; OXICLEAN®; VITAFUSION® and L’IL CRITTERS®; BATISTE®; WATERPIK®; THERABREATH®; and HERO® and represent approximately 70% of our net sales and profits. We sell our consumer products under a variety of brands through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, dollar, pet and other specialty stores and websites and other e-commerce channels, all of which sell the products to consumers. We sell our specialty products to industrial customers, livestock producers and through distributors. We operate our business in three segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and the Specialty Products Division (“SPD”).  The segments are based on differences in the nature of products and organizational and ownership structures.  In 2023, the Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and SPD segments represented approximately 78%, 17% and 5%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Supply Chain, Inflation, Consumer Demand and Competition We continue to monitor the impact of both inflation and recessionary indicators including the effect of corresponding government actions, such as raising interest rates to counteract inflation, that may negatively impact consumer spending, especially for our discretionary brands, and how these factors will potentially influence future cash flows for the short and long term . We believe that inflation and recessionary concerns are continuing to drive a decline in consumer spending for our most discretionary brands, Waterpik and Flawless, as consumers reduce spending in these categories and shift to lower cost alternatives. Most notably, a growing number of water flosser consumers have switched to more value-branded products. To address these demand shifts, we are taking steps to better manage production schedules and inventory levels for those products along with increasing promotional activities and marketing spend, as well as continuing efforts to develop lower cost water flosser alternatives. Our vitamin business continues to experience a softening of growth from record high levels during the COVID-19 pandemic and has seen a significant ramp up in competition coming from new gummy vitamin category entrants which have increased from about six competitors a decade ago to more than 60 of significance today.  In addition, residual impacts from previous vitamin-specific supply chain challenges resulted in increased shelf space and/ or display for certain of our competitors. We are improving our product offerings, redesigning packaging, launching new advertising and increasing global promotional and marketing efforts to solidify the business and, ultimately, regain lost market share. Net sales in our Specialty Products Division declined in 2023, largely due to declining sales of our MEGALAC dairy supplement within our Animal Nutrition business.  During the first quarter of 2024, we will be exiting this part of the Animal Nutrition business as a result of the return of foreign competition in the United States dairy market. Looking forward, the impact that these challenges will continue to have on our operational and financial performance will depend in part on future developments, including inflationary impacts, interest rates, recessionary concerns, as well as retail customers' acceptance of all or a portion of any price increases.  Additionally, we may be impacted by our ability to recruit and retain a workforce and engage third-parties to manufacture and distribute our products, as well as any future government actions affecting employers and employees, consumers and the economy in general.  While we expect that many of these effects will be transitory and that our value-focused portfolio positions us well in challenging economic environments, it is impossible to predict their impact. 35 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) 2023 Financial Highlights Key 2023 financial results include: • 2023 net sales grew 9.2% over 2022, with gains in Consumer Domestic and Consumer International, partially offset by lower sales in SPD.  The gains are primarily due to favorable pricing/product mix, favorable volumes, and the benefit of recent acquisitions in Consumer Domestic and Consumer International, partially offset by unfavorable volumes and pricing/product mix in SPD. • Gross margin increased 220 basis points to 44.1% in 2023 from 41.9% in 2022, primarily due to favorable price/volume/mix, the impact of productivity programs, lower transportation costs, and business acquisition benefits, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs including labor and higher commodities. • Operating margin increased 690 basis points to 18.0% in 2023 from 11.1% in 2022.  The 2022 operating margin included a non-cash charge of $411.0 or 760 basis points related to the Flawless intangible asset impairment.  Excluding the impairment charge, operating margin decreased 70 basis points as an increase in gross margins was offset by higher marketing expenses and selling general and administrative costs. • We reported diluted net earnings per share in 2023 of $3.05, an increase of approximately 81.5% from 2022 diluted net earnings per share of $1.68 which included the non-cash Flawless intangible asset impairment charge of $1.26 per share. • Cash provided by operations was $1,030.6 in 2023, a $145.4 increase from the prior year due to an improvement in working capital and an increase in cash earnings (net income adjusted for non-cash items) including the impact of recent acquisitions. • We returned $566.6 in 2023 to our stockholders through cash dividends paid and share repurchases. Strategic Goals, Challenges and Initiatives Our ability to generate sales depends on consumer demand for our products and retail customers’ decisions to carry our products, which are, in part, affected by general economic conditions in our markets. While a vast majority of our products are consumer staples and less vulnerable to decreases in discretionary spending than other products, certain of our products, are more likely to be affected by consumer decisions to control spending.  Some retail customers have responded to economic conditions by increasing their private label offerings (primarily in the dietary supplements, diagnostic kits and oral analgesics categories), launching their own brands, and consolidating the product selections they offer to the top few leading brands in each category.  In addition, an increasing portion of our product categories are being sold by club stores, dollar stores, mass merchandisers and internet-based retailers.  These factors have placed downward pressure on our sales and gross margins. We intend to continue to aggressively pursue several key strategic initiatives: maintain competitive marketing and trade spending, tightly control our cost structure, expand our online market share, continue to develop and launch new and differentiated products, and pursue strategic acquisitions.  We also intend to continue to grow our product sales globally and maintain an offering of premium and value brand products to appeal to a wide range of consumers. We derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from sales of liquid laundry detergent. As a result, any delays or reduction of sales of these products, in the event that our product category diversification efforts discussed below are not successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.  We continue to evaluate and vigorously address these pressures through, among other things, new product introductions and increased marketing and trade spending. However, there is no assurance the category will not decline in the future and that we will be able to offset any such decline. We are continuously focused on strengthening our key brands through the launch of innovative new products, which span various product categories, including premium and value household products supported by increased marketing and trade spending.  There can be no assurance that these measures will be successful. Our global product portfolio consists of both premium (63% of total worldwide consumer revenue in 2023) and value (37% of total worldwide consumer revenue in 2023) brands, which we believe enables us to succeed in a range of economic environments.  We intend to continue to develop a portfolio of appealing new products to build loyalty among cost-conscious consumers. Over the past two decades, we have diversified from an almost exclusively U.S. business to a global company with approximately 17% of sales derived from countries outside of the United States in 2023.  We have subsidiary operations in seven countries (Canada, Mexico, U.K., France, Germany, China and Australia).  We also export products to over 130 other countries through our Global Markets Group using a broad network of third-party distributors.  In 2023, we benefited from our expanded global footprint and expect to continue to focus on selectively expanding our global business.  If we are unable to expand our business internationally at the rate that we expect, we may not realize our anticipated growth targets. 36 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) Although we believe ongoing international expansion represents a significant opportunity to grow our business, our increasing activity in global markets exposes us to additional complexity and uncertainty.  Sales generated outside of the U.S. are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as well as political uncertainty which could impact future operating results.  Moreover, the current domestic and international political environment, including existing and potential changes to U.S. policies related to global trade and tariffs, have resulted in uncertainty regarding the global economy. The impact of U.S. tariffs on certain products was a component of increased cost of sale during the year ended December 31, 2023. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries in which we manufacture or sell large quantities of products could negatively impact our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We also continue to focus on controlling our costs.  Historically, we have been able to mitigate the effects of cost increases primarily by implementing cost reduction programs and, to a lesser extent, by passing along cost increases to customers.  We have also entered into set pricing and pre-buying arrangements with certain suppliers and hedge agreements for diesel fuel and other commodities.  Additionally, our focus on tight cost controls has enabled us to effectively navigate challenging economic conditions. The identification and integration of strategic acquisitions are an important component of our overall strategy and product category diversification.  Acquisitions have added significantly to our sales, profits and product category diversification over the last decade.  This is evidenced by our 2015 acquisition of certain assets of Varied Industries Corporation (the “Vi-cor Acquisition”), the 2016 acquisitions of Spencer Forrest, Inc., the maker of TOPPIK (the “Toppik Acquisition”), and the ANUSOL and RECTINOL businesses from Johnson & Johnson (the “Anusol Acquisition”), the 2017 acquisitions of  the VIVISCAL brand from Lifes2Good Holdings Limited (the “Viviscal Acquisition”), and the WATERPIK brand from Pik Holdings, Inc. (the “Waterpik Acquisition”), the 2020 acquisition of  the ZICAM brand from Consumer Health Holdco LLC, the 2021 acquisition of  the THERABREATH brand from Dr. Harold Katz, LLC and HK-IP International, Inc, and the 2022 acquisition of the HERO brand which includes the MIGHTY PATCH acne treatment products.  The failure to effectively identify or integrate any acquisition or achieve expected synergies may cause us to incur material asset write-downs.  We actively seek acquisitions that fit our guidelines, and our strong financial position provides us with flexibility to take advantage of acquisition opportunities.  In addition, our ability to quickly integrate acquisitions and leverage existing infrastructure has enabled us to establish a strong track record in making accretive acquisitions.  Since 2001, we have acquired six of our seven “power brands.” We believe we are well positioned to meet the ongoing challenges described above due to our strong financial condition, experience operating in challenging environments and continued focus on key strategic initiatives.  Our focus is to maintain competitive marketing and trade spending, manage our cost structure, continue to develop and launch new and differentiated products, while pursuing strategic acquisitions.  This focus, together with the strength of our portfolio of premium and value brands, has enabled us to succeed in a range of economic environments.  Moreover, the generation of a significant amount of cash from operations provides us with the financial flexibility to pursue acquisitions, drive new product development, make capital expenditures to support organic growth and gross margin improvements, return cash to stockholders through dividends and share buy backs, and reduce outstanding debt.  These factors position us to continue to increase stockholder value over the long-term. For information regarding risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and cash flows, see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Annual Report. Recent Developments Dividend Increase On January 31, 2024, the Board declared a 4% increase in the regular quarterly dividend from $0.2725 to $0.28375 per share (equivalent to an annual dividend of $1.135 per share) payable to stockholders of record as of February 15, 2024.  The increase raises the annualized dividend payout from $267.0 to approximately $276.0 on an annualized basis. 37 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP).  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  By their nature, these judgments are subject to uncertainty.  They are based on our historical experience, our observation of trends in industry, information provided by our customers and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate.  Our significant accounting policies and estimates are described below. Revenue Recognition and Promotional and Sales Return Reserves Virtually all of our revenue represents sales of finished goods inventory and is recognized when received or picked up by our customers.  The reserves for consumer and trade promotion liabilities and sales returns are established based on our best estimate of the amounts necessary to settle future and existing claims on products sold as of the balance sheet date.  Promotional reserves are provided for sales incentives, such as coupons to consumers, and sales incentives provided to customers (such as slotting, cooperative advertising, incentive discounts based on volume of sales and other arrangements made directly with customers).  All such costs are netted against sales.  Slotting costs are recorded when the product is delivered to the customer.  Cooperative advertising costs are recorded when the customer places the advertisement for our products.  Discounts relating to price reduction arrangements and coupons are recorded when the related sale takes place.  Costs associated with end-aisle or other in-store displays are recorded when product that is subject to the promotion is sold.  We rely on historical experience and forecasted data to determine the required reserves.  For example, we use historical experience to project coupon redemption rates to determine reserve requirements.  Based on the total face value of Consumer Domestic coupons redeemed over the past several years, if the actual rate of redemptions were to deviate by 0.1% from the rate for which reserves are accrued in the financial statements, a difference of approximately $0.7 in the reserve required for coupons would result.  With regard to other promotional reserves and sales returns, we use experience-based estimates, customer and sales organization inputs and historical trend analysis in arriving at the reserves required.  If our estimates for promotional activities and sales returns reserves were to change by 10% the impact to promotional spending and sales return accruals would be approximately $16.0.  While management believes that its promotional and sales returns reserves are reasonable and that appropriate judgments have been made, estimated amounts could differ materially from actual future obligations. Impairment of goodwill, trade names and other intangible assets The Company has intangible assets of substantial value on its consolidated balance sheet.  Intangible assets relate to intangible assets with a useful life, indefinite-lived trade names and goodwill.  The Company determines whether an intangible asset (other than goodwill) has a useful life based on multiple factors, including how long the Company intends to generate cash flows from the asset. Intangible assets with a useful life are assessed for impairment when there are business triggering events. Carrying values of goodwill and indefinite-lived trade names are reviewed at least annually for possible impairment. Our impairment analysis is based on a discounted cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to unit volume, revenue and expense growth rates, and the selection of an appropriate discount rate and royalty rate.  Management uses estimates based on expected trends in making these assumptions.  With respect to goodwill, impairment occurs when the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the discounted present value of cash flows for that reporting unit.  For trade names and other intangible assets, an impairment charge is recorded for the difference between the carrying value and the net present value of estimated future cash flows, which represents the estimated fair value of the asset. Fair value for indefinite-lived intangible assets is estimated based on a "relief from royalty" or "excess earnings" discounted cash flow method, which contains numerous variables that are subject to change as business conditions change, and therefore could impact fair values in the future.  Judgment is required in assessing whether assets may have become impaired between annual valuations.  Indicators such as unexpected adverse economic factors, unanticipated technological change, distribution losses, or competitive activities and acts by governments and courts may indicate that an asset has become impaired. The result of our annual goodwill impairment test determined that the estimated fair value substantially exceeded the carrying values of all reporting units.  We determined that the fair value of all indefinite-lived intangible assets for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2023 exceeded their respective carrying values based upon the forecasted cash flows and profitability. Recently, our global TROJAN business has benefited from the successful introduction of new products, such as TROJAN BARESKIN RAW, which has contributed to expanded distribution resulting in sales growth in 2023 and an improvement in the expected sales growth outlook for this business.  While the Company cannot predict future changes in economic or competitive factors that may adversely impact the underlying cash flows used to estimate fair value of the trade name, it believes that the improved growth and profitability outlook for this business has reduced the near-term risk of impairment of the TROJAN trade name.  The carrying value of the TROJAN trade name is $176.4 and fair value represented 162% of the carrying value as of October 1, 2023. 38 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) Our global WATERPIK business has continued to experience a significant decline in customer demand for many of its products, primarily due to lower consumer spending for discretionary products resulting in part from inflation and a growing number of water flosser consumers switching to more value-branded products.  Waterpik's profitability has also been impacted by tariffs imposed on its products imported into the United States that were manufactured in China. As a result, the WATERPIK business has experienced declining sales and profits resulting in a reduction in expected future cash flows which have eroded a substantial portion of the excess between the fair and carrying value of the trade name.  This indefinite-lived intangible asset may be susceptible to impairment and a continued decline in fair value could trigger a future impairment charge of the WATERPIK trade name.  While management can and has implemented strategies to address the risk, significant changes in operating plans or adverse changes in the future could reduce the underlying cash flows used to estimate fair values and could result in a decline in fair value that could trigger future impairment charges of these assets.  The carrying value of the WATERPIK trade name is $644.7 and fair value represented 109% of the carrying value as of October 1, 2023. The vitamin category continues to experience a softening of growth from record high levels during the COVID-19 pandemic and significant product competition coming from new category entrants.  The category has grown from about 6 competitors a decade ago to more than 60 of significance in recent years.  In addition, residual impacts from previous vitamin-specific supply chain challenges have resulted in reduced shelf space for VITAFUSION and LIL CRITTERS at certain retailers and consumers switching to competitor’s brands.  These factors, along with higher interest rates, have resulted in a reduction in expected future cash flows which have eroded a substantial portion of the excess between the fair and carrying value of the trade name. This indefinite-lived intangible asset may be susceptible to impairment and a continued decline in fair value could trigger a future impairment charge of the VITAFUSION and LIL' CRITTERS trade name.  While management has implemented strategies to address the risk, significant changes in operating plans or adverse changes in the future could reduce the underlying cash flows used to estimate fair value.  The carrying value of the VITAFUSION and LIL' CRITTERS trade name is $281.3 and fair value represented 154% of the carrying value as of October 1, 2023. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we determined that a review of our ability to recover the carrying values of the global FINISHING TOUCH FLAWLESS intangible assets was necessary based on the discontinuance of certain products at a major retailer.  The FINISHING TOUCH FLAWLESS assets consist of the definite-lived trade name, customer relationships and technology assets recorded at acquisition. We evaluated our ability to recover the carrying values of the intangible assets by comparing the carrying amount to the future undiscounted cash flows and determined that the cash flows would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the assets.  After determining the estimated fair value of the assets, which included a reduction in cash flows due to the loss of distribution mentioned above along with an expected continued decline in discretionary consumption and higher interest rates, a non-cash impairment charge of $411.0 was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2022. The remaining net book value of the trade name as of December 31, 2023 is $30.9 and will be amortized over a remaining useful life of two years.  We have implemented strategies to address the decline in profitability.  However, if unsuccessful, a further decline could trigger a future impairment charge. It is possible that our conclusions regarding impairment or recoverability of goodwill or other intangible assets could change in future periods if, for example, (i) the businesses or brands do not perform as projected, (ii) overall economic conditions in future years vary from current assumptions (including changes in discount rates), (iii) business conditions or strategies change from current assumptions, (iv) investors require higher rates of return on equity investments in the marketplace or (v) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded companies, or actual sales transactions of comparable companies, were to decline, resulting in lower multiples of revenues and EBITDA.  A future impairment charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized to reflect the future tax consequences attributable to the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  Management provides a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets for amounts which are not considered “more likely than not” to be realized.  We record liabilities for potential assessments in various tax jurisdictions under U.S. GAAP guidelines.  The liabilities relate to tax return positions that, although supportable by us, may be challenged by the tax authorities and do not meet the minimum recognition threshold required under applicable accounting guidance for the related tax benefit to be recognized on the income statement.  We adjust this liability as a result of changes in tax legislation, interpretations of laws by courts, guidance and rulings issued by tax authorities, changes in estimates and the expiration of the statute of limitations.  Many of the judgments involved in adjusting the liability involve assumptions and estimates that are highly uncertain and subject to change.  In this regard, settlement of any issue, or an adverse determination in litigation, with a taxing authority could require the use of cash and result in an increase in our annual effective tax rate.  Conversely, favorable resolution of an issue with a taxing authority would be recognized as a reduction to our annual effective tax rate. 39 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) New Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of December 31, 2023. 40 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023, 2022 AND 2021 The discussion of results of operations at the consolidated level presented below is followed by a more detailed discussion of results of operations by segment.  This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2023 and 2022 results and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022.  Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. The segment discussion also addresses certain product line information.  Our operating segments are consistent with our reportable segments. Consolidated results 2023 compared to 2022 Net Sales Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2023 were $5,867.9, an increase of $492.3, or 9.2% compared to 2022 net sales.  The components of the net sales increase are as follows: (1) On October 13, 2022, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Hero Cosmetics, Inc. ("Hero"), the developer of the HERO® brand which includes the MIGHTY PATCH® acne treatment products (the "Hero Acquisition"). The volume change reflects increased volumes in the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International Segments partially offset by volume declines in SPD.  Price/mix was favorable in the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International Segments partially offset by slightly unfavorable price/mix in the SPD segment. Gross Profit Our gross profit for 2023 was $2,588.5, a $338.5 increase compared to 2022.  Gross margin was 44.1% in 2023 compared to 41.9% in 2022, a 220 basis points (“bps”) increase.  The increase is due to favorable price/volume/mix of 220 bps, the impact of productivity programs of 150 bps, lower transportation costs of 100 bps, and benefits from the Hero Acquisition of 90 bps, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs including labor and higher commodities of 340 bps. Operating Costs Marketing expenses for 2023 were $641.3, an increase of $106.1 compared to 2022.  Marketing expenses as a percentage of net sales increased 90 bps to 10.9% in 2023 as compared to 2022 due to 180 bps on higher expense from increased marketing spend as our ability to meet customer demand improved, offset by 90 bps of leverage on higher net sales. 41 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) SG&A expenses for 2023 were $889.8, a decrease of $227.2 or 20.3% compared to 2022.  SG&A as a percentage of net sales decreased 560 bps to 15.2% in 2023 compared to 20.8% in 2022 due to 390 bps on lower expenses and 170 bps of leverage associated with higher sales.  The lower expenses of 390 bps were primarily due to the non-cash Flawless intangible asset impairment charges of $411.0 or 760 bps in 2022, partially offset by higher expenses associated with the Hero Acquisition of $78.7, investment spending for future growth and higher incentive compensation costs which reflects improved business performance. Other Income and Expenses Other income increased $9.4 in 2023 as compared to 2022 primarily due to higher investment income . Interest expense in 2023 was $110.9, an increase of $21.3 primarily due to higher average interest rates on outstanding debt . Taxation The 2023 effective income tax rate was 21.9% compared to 20.9% in 2022. The increase in the rate is due to the tax rate benefit of the FLAWLESS impairment charge recorded in 2022. On August 16, 2022, President Biden signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which contains provisions effective January 1, 2023, including a 15% corporate minimum tax and a 1% excise tax on stock buybacks. The new law did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows during the year ended December 31, 2023. Segment results for 2023, 2022 and 2021 We operate three reportable segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer International and SPD.  These segments are determined based on differences in the nature of products and organizational and ownership structures.  We also have a Corporate segment. The Corporate segment income consists of equity in earnings of affiliates.  As of December 31, 2023, we held 50% ownership interests in each of Armand and ArmaKleen, respectively.  Our equity in earnings of Armand and ArmaKleen, totaling $8.7, $12.3 and $9.4 for the three years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, are included in the Corporate segment. 42 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) Some of the subsidiaries that are included in the Consumer International segment manufacture and sell personal care products to the Consumer Domestic segment.  These sales are eliminated from the Consumer International segment results set forth below. Segment net sales and income before income taxes for each of the three years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: (1) Intersegment sales from Consumer International to Consumer Domestic, which are not reflected in the table, were $17.0, $15.1 and $10.8 for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. (2) In determining income before income taxes, interest expense, investment earnings and certain aspects of other income and expense were allocated among segments based upon each segment’s relative income from operations. (3) Corporate segment consists of equity in earnings of affiliates from Armand and ArmaKleen in 2023, 2022 and 2021. (4) 2022 results include the FLAWLESS non-cash intangible asset impairment charges of $411.0 in SG&A expenses, of which $349.3 was recorded in the Consumer Domestic segment and $61.7 was recorded in the Consumer International segment. (5) 2021 results include a $98.0 reduction in SG&A expenses to reduce the Flawless business acquisition liability, of which $83.2 was recorded to Consumer Domestic and $14.8 was recorded to Consumer International. Product line revenues for external customers for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 were as follows: Household Products include deodorizing, cleaning and laundry products.  Personal Care Products include condoms, pregnancy kits, oral care products, skin care products, hair care products and gummy dietary supplements. 43 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) Consumer Domestic 2023 compared to 2022 Consumer Domestic net sales in 2023 were $4,571.2, an increase of $440.2 or 10.7% compared to net sales of $4,131.0 in 2022.  The components of the net sales change are the following: (1) Includes the Hero Acquisition since October 13, 2022 (the date of the acquisition). The increase in net sales for 2023 reflects the impact of the Hero Acquisition, and the impact of higher sales of THERABREATH® mouth wash, ARM & HAMMER® cat litter, ARM & HAMMER® liquid detergent, and ARM & HAMMER® baking soda, partially offset by declines in FINISHING TOUCH FLAWLESS® hair removal products, VITAFUSION® and L’IL CRITTERS® gummy dietary supplements, and WATERPIK® water flossers. Consumer Domestic income before income taxes for 2023 was $842.7, a $415.4 increase as compared to 2022.  The 2022 results include the FINISHING TOUCH FLAWLESS intangible asset impairment charge of $349.3 in SG&A expenses.  Excluding the impairment charge, income before income taxes increased $66.1 due to favorable price/mix of $193.0, the gross margin benefit of higher sales volumes related to the Hero Acquisition of $138.1, lower manufacturing and distribution expenses of $12.0, partially offset by higher SG&A expenses of $165.2 from higher expenses associated with the Hero Acquisition and higher incentive compensation costs, higher marketing expenses of $96.5, and higher interest and other expenses of $15.3. Consumer International 2023 compared to 2022 Consumer International net sales in 2023 were $975.7, an increase of $79.6 or 8.9% as compared to 2022.  The components of the net sales change are the following: (1) Includes the Hero Acquisition since October 13, 2022 (the date of the acquisition) . Excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates and acquired product lines, the increase in net sales for the year ended December 31, 2023, is driven by STERIMAR® nasal congestion relief, THERABREATH® mouth wash, BATISTE® dry shampoo, OXICLEAN® stain removers and WATERPIK in the Global Markets Group; BATISTE® dry shampoo, OXICLEAN® stain removers, THERABREATH® mouth wash, and GRAVOL® anti-nauseant in Canada; STERIMAR® nasal congestion relief and BATISTE® dry shampoo in Europe and STERIMAR® nasal congestion relief, ARM & HAMMER® dental care, ARM & HAMMER® baking soda, and ARM & HAMMER® liquid detergent in Mexico. Consumer International income before income taxes was $94.8 in 2023, an increase of $56.0 compared to 2022.  The increase is due to favorable price/mix of $53.4, lower SG&A expenses of $33.3 (including the 2022 FLAWLESS intangible asset impairment charge of $61.7, partially offset by higher incentive compensation costs), the gross margin benefit of higher sales volumes of $12.1, and favorable foreign exchange rates of $3.1, partially offset by higher manufacturing and commodity costs of $33.5, higher marketing expenses of $10.2, and higher interest and other expenses of $2.1. 44 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) Specialty Products 2023 compared to 2022 SPD net sales were $321.0 for 2023, a decrease of $27.5, or 7.9% compared to 2022.  The components of the net sales change are the following: Net sales decreased in the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily due to competitive imports within our domestic dairy business . SPD income before income taxes was $21.2 in 2023, a decrease of $23.7 compared to 2022.  The decrease in income before income taxes for 2023 is due to higher SG&A costs of $16.4 (including the Passport intangible asset impairment charge of $3.5 and higher incentive compensation costs), the gross margin impact of lower sales volumes of $7.2, unfavorable manufacturing costs of $3.4, and unfavorable price/mix of $2.5, partially offset by lower interest and other expenses of $5.4, and lower marketing expenses of $0.5. Corporate Corporate includes administrative costs of the production, planning and logistics functions which are elements of Cost of Sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income but are allocated to the operating segments in SG&A expenses to determine operating segment income before income taxes.  Such amounts were $60.4, $34.3 and $47.1 for 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  The increase in 2023 compared to 2022 is primarily due to higher incentive compensation costs. Also included in corporate are the equity in earnings of affiliates from Armand and ArmaKleen, totaling $8.7, $12.3 and $9.4 for the three years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources On June 16, 2022, we entered into a credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) that provides for our $1,500.0 unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) that matures on June 16, 2027, unless extended. The Credit Agreement replaced our prior $1,000.0 unsecured revolving credit facility that would have matured on March 29, 2024 that was entered into on March 29, 2018.  We have the ability to increase our borrowing up to an additional $750.0, subject to lender commitments and certain conditions as described in the Credit Agreement.  Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are available for general corporate purposes and are used to support our $1,500.0 commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2023, we had $344.5 in cash and cash equivalents, and approximately $1,495.0 available through the Revolving Credit Facility and our commercial paper program.  To preserve our liquidity, we invest cash primarily in government money market funds, prime money market funds, short-term commercial paper and short-term bank deposits. On October 31, 2022, we issued $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 5.60% Senior Notes due 2032 (the “2032 Notes”).  The proceeds from the sale of the 2032 Notes were used to repay commercial paper debt incurred to finance the Hero Acquisition, and related fees and expenses. The 2032 Notes will mature on November 15, 2032, unless earlier retired or redeemed pursuant to the terms of the supplemental indenture governing the terms of the 2032 Notes. On June 2, 2022, we issued $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 5.00% Senior Notes due 2052 (the “2052 Notes”).   In July 2022 a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the 2052 Notes were used to repay all of our outstanding $300.0 2.45% Senior Notes due August 1, 2022. The 2052 Notes will mature on June 15, 2052, unless earlier retired or redeemed pursuant to the terms of the supplemental indenture governing the terms of the 2052 Notes. In October 2022, we repaid all of the outstanding $400.0 2.875% Senior notes due October 1, 2022 with a portion of the proceeds from the 2052 Notes and cash on hand. On December 22, 2021, we entered into a $400.0 unsecured term loan facility (as amended on June 16, 2022, the “Term Loan Facility”) with various banks.  The loan under the Term Loan Facility (the “Term Loan”) was fully drawn at closing. Unless repaid early, the Term Loan is due on December 22, 2024.  The interest rate is the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) plus a spread and an applicable 45 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) margin based on the Company’s credit rating, which can range from 60 basis points to 125 bps.  The proceeds of the Term Loan were used to partially fund the TheraBreath Acquisition, with the remaining proceeds used for the repayment of commercial paper.  In 2023, we repaid $200.0 of the Term Loan with cash on hand and commercial paper borrowings.   In January 2024, we repaid an additional $100.0 of the Term Loan with cash on hand. Additionally, we financed the TheraBreath Acquisition with a portion of the proceeds from an underwritten public offering of $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.3% Senior Notes due 2031 (the “2031 Notes”) completed on December 10, 2021.  The 2031 Notes will mature on December 15, 2031, unless earlier retired or redeemed pursuant to the terms of the supplemental indenture governing the terms of the 2031 Notes. We financed the Waterpik Acquisition with a portion of the proceeds from an underwritten public offering of $1,425.0 aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes completed on July 25, 2017, consisting of $300.0 aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Senior Notes that were due in 2019 and have been fully repaid, $300.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes that were due in 2022 and have been fully repaid, $425.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.15% Senior Notes due 2027 and $400.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.95% Senior Notes due 2047. In 2015, we initiated a Supply Chain Finance program (“SCF Program”).  Under the SCF Program, qualifying suppliers may elect to sell their receivables from us for early payment. Participating suppliers negotiate their receivables sales arrangements directly with a third party. We are not party to those agreements and do not have an economic interest in the supplier’s decision to sell their receivables.  The SCF Program may allow suppliers more favorable terms than they could secure on their own.  The terms of our payment obligations are not impacted by a supplier’s participation in the SCF Program.   Our payment terms with suppliers are consistent between suppliers that elect to participate in the SCF Program and those that do not participate.  As a result, the program does not have an impact to our average days outstanding. All amounts outstanding to suppliers participating in the SCF Program are recorded within Accounts Payable in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and the associated payments are included in operating activities within our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. The current economic environment presents risks that could have adverse consequences for our liquidity.  See the discussion of this and other risks under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Annual Report.  We continue to manage all aspects of our business including, but not limited to, monitoring the financial health of our customers, suppliers and other third-party relationships, implementing gross margin enhancement strategies and developing new opportunities for growth.  We do not anticipate that current economic conditions will adversely affect our ability to comply with the financial covenant in the Credit Agreement because we currently are, and anticipate that we will continue to be, in compliance with the maximum leverage ratio requirement under the Credit Agreement. On October 28, 2021, the Board authorized a new share repurchase program, under which we may repurchase up to $1,000.0 in shares of Common Stock (the “2021 Share Repurchase Program”).  The 2021 Share Repurchase Program does not have an expiration and replaced the 2017 Share Repurchase Program.  All remaining dollars authorized for repurchase under the 2017 Share Repurchase Plan have been cancelled.  The 2021 Share Repurchase Program did not modify our evergreen share repurchase program, authorized by the Board on January 29, 2014, under which we may repurchase, from time to time, Common Stock to reduce or eliminate dilution associated with issuances of Common Stock under its incentive plans. In November 2023, we executed an agreement to purchase 3.3 million shares for $300.1, inclusive of fees, of which $229.3 was purchased under the evergreen share repurchase program and $70.8 was purchased under the 2021 Share Repurchase Program. As a result of our stock repurchases, there remains $658.9 of share repurchase availability under the 2021 Share Repurchase Program as of December 31, 2023. On January 31, 2024, the Board declared a 4% increase in the regular quarterly dividend from $0.2725 to $0.28375 per share, equivalent to an annual dividend of $1.135 per share payable to stockholders of record as of February 15, 2024.  The increase raises the annual dividend payout from $267.0 to approximately $276.0 on an annualized basis. We anticipate that our cash from operations, together with our current borrowing capacity, will be sufficient to fund our share repurchase programs to the extent implemented by management, pay debt and interest as it comes due, pay dividends at the latest approved rate, and meet our capital expenditure program costs, which are expected to be approximately $180.0 in 2024 primarily for manufacturing capacity investments in laundry, litter and vitamins to support expected future sales growth.  Cash, together with our current borrowing capacity, may be used for acquisitions that would complement our existing product lines or geographic markets. 46 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) Cash Flow Analysis 2023 compared to 2022 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities – Our primary source of liquidity is our cash flow provided by operating activities, which is dependent on the level of net income and changes in working capital.  Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2023 increased by $145.4 to $1,030.6 as compared to $885.2 in 2022 due to an improvement in working capital and an increase in cash earnings (net income adjusted for non-cash items) including the impact of recent acquisitions. The improvement in working capital is primarily related to lower investment in inventory in the U.S. as fill rates have improved, lower investment in inventory related to our discretionary brands and higher incentive compensation accruals. We measure working capital effectiveness based on our cash conversion cycle.  The following table presents our cash conversion cycle information for the quarters ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Our cash conversion cycle (defined as the sum of DSO plus DIO less DPO) at December 31, 2023, which is calculated using a two period average method, increased 8 days from the prior year primarily due to a reduction in DPO of 6 days.  The reduction in 2023 DPO compared to 2022 is partially driven by our recent acquisitions.  We continue to focus on reducing our working capital requirements. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities – Net cash used in investing activities during 2023 was $234.3, primarily reflecting property, plant and equipment additions of $223.5.  Net cash used in investing activities during 2022 was $728.6, primarily reflecting $546.8 for the Hero Acquisition and $178.8 for property, plant and equipment additions. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities – Net cash used in financing activities during the twelve months of 2023 was $725.6, reflecting $300.1 of treasury stock purchases, $266.5 of cash dividend payments and $270.6 of net debt repayments, partially offset by $111.7 of proceeds from stock option exercises .  Net cash used in financing activities during the twelve months of 2022 was $120.9, reflecting $255.0 of cash dividend payments and $12.0 of financing costs, partially offset by $119.9 of net debt borrowings, and $26.2 of proceeds from stock option exercises. 47 CHURCH & DWIGHT CO., INC AND SUBSIDIARIES (Dollars in millions, except share and per share data) OTHER ITEMS Market risk Concentration of Risk A group of four customers accounted for approximately 44% and 42% of consolidated net sales in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  A group of three customers accounted for approximately 37% of consolidated net sales in 2021, of which a single customer (Walmart Inc. and its affiliates) accounted for approximately 23%, 24% and 24% in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Interest Rate Risk We had outstanding total debt at December 31, 2023, of $2,406.0, net of debt issuance costs, of which approximately 92% has a fixed weighted average interest rate of 4.1% and the remaining 8% was constituted primarily of the term loan due 2024 with a current rate of approximately 6.2%.  From time to time the Company will enter into interest rate lock agreements to hedge the risk of changes in the interest payments attributable to changes in the interest rate associated with anticipated issuances of debt. Other Market Risks We are also subject to market risks relating to our diesel and other commodity costs, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in the market price of the Common Stock.  Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion of these market risks and the derivatives used to manage the risks associated with changing diesel fuel and other commodity prices, foreign exchange rates and the price of our Common Stock.