********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following are material factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements, including those made in oral presentations such as telephone conferences and webcasts open to the public. Business environment and competition risk factors Economic recessions could have a significant, adverse impact on our business. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recessions, downturns in business cycles of our customers, interest rate fluctuations, currency fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. Deterioration in the economic environment subjects our business to various risks, which may have a material and adverse impact on our operating results and cause us to not reach our long-term growth goals: • Decrease in volumes: A reduction in overall freight volumes in the marketplace may reduce our opportunities for growth. A significant portion of our freight is comprised of transactional or spot market opportunities. The market may be impacted by supply chain disruptions or overall economic conditions. In addition, if a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volumes of freight shipped by those customers, particularly among certain national retailers or in the food, beverage, retail, manufacturing, housing, paper, ecommerce, or printing industries, our operating results could be adversely affected. During 2022 and 2023, we experienced a decline in volumes as shippers struggled with elevated inventory levels and consumer demand was negatively impacted by inflation and macroeconomic uncertainty. These volume declines have also driven declining freight rates in certain transportation modes and trade lanes. • Credit risk and working capital: Some of our customers may face economic difficulties and may not be able to pay us, and some may go out of business. In addition, some customers may not pay us as quickly as they have in the past, which may cause our working capital needs to increase. • Transportation provider failures: A significant number of our contracted transportation providers may go out of business, and we may be unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers. • Expense management: We may not be able to appropriately adjust our expenses to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it may be more difficult to match our staffing levels to our business needs. In addition, we have other expenses that are fixed for a period of time, and we may not be able to adequately adjust them in a period of rapid change in market demand. Higher carrier prices may result in decreased adjusted gross profit margin and increases in working capital. Carriers can be expected to charge higher prices if market conditions warrant or to cover higher operating expenses. Our adjusted gross profits and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to increase our pricing to our customers. Increased demand for over the road transportation services and changes in regulations may reduce available capacity and increase motor carrier pricing. In some instances where we have entered into contract freight rates with customers, in the event market conditions change and those contracted rates are below market rates, we may be required to provide transportation services at a loss. As our volumes increase or we increase freight rates charged to our customers, the resulting increase in revenues may increase our working capital needs due to our business model, which generally has a higher length of days sales outstanding than days payables outstanding. Changing fuel costs and interruptions of fuel supplies may have an impact on our adjusted gross profit margin. In our truckload transportation business, fluctuating fuel prices may result in a decreased adjusted gross profit margin. While our different pricing arrangements with customers and contracted motor carriers make it very difficult to measure the precise impact, we believe fuel costs essentially act as a pass-through cost to our truckload business. In times of fluctuating fuel prices, our adjusted gross profit margin may also fluctuate. Adjusted gross profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as adjusted gross profits divided by total revenues. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 16 Our dependence on third parties to provide equipment and services may impact the delivery and quality of our transportation and logistics services. We do not employ the people directly involved in delivering our customers’ freight. We depend on independent third parties to provide truck, rail, ocean, and air services and to report certain events to us, including but not limited to, shipment status information and freight claims. These independent third parties may not fulfill their obligations to us, or our relationship with these parties may change, which may prevent us from meeting our commitments to our customers. Our reliance on these third parties also could cause delays in reporting certain events, including recognizing claims. In addition, if we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services from third parties to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including: • equipment and driver shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among contracted motor carriers; • changes in regulations impacting transportation; • disruption in the supply or cost of fuel; • reduction or deterioration in rail service; • the introduction of alternative means of transporting freight; and • unanticipated changes in freight markets. We face substantial industry competition. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense and broad-based. We compete against traditional and non-traditional logistics companies, including transportation providers that own equipment, third-party freight brokers, technology matching services, internet freight brokers, carriers offering logistics services, and on-demand transportation service providers. We also compete against carriers’ internal sales forces. In addition, customers can bring in-house some of the services we provide to them. We often buy and sell transportation services from and to many of our competitors. Increased competition could reduce our market opportunity and create downward pressure on freight rates, and continued rate pressure may adversely affect our adjusted gross profits and income from operations. In some instances where we have entered into contract freight rates with customers, in the event market conditions change and those contracted rates are below market rates, we may be required to provide transportation services at a loss. Our earnings may be affected by seasonal changes or significant disruptions in the transportation industry. Results of operations for our industry generally show a seasonal pattern as customers reduce shipments during and after the winter holiday season. We believe this historical pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors, including national holidays, weather patterns, consumer demand, economic conditions, and other similar and subtle forces. Although seasonal changes in the transportation industry have not had a significant impact on our cash flow or results of operations, we expect this trend to continue, and we cannot guarantee it will not adversely impact us in the future. The transportation industry may also be significantly impacted by disruptions such as port congestion and the availability of transportation equipment, as well as factors such as labor shortages, fuel prices, shifts in consumer demand toward more locally sourced products, and regulatory changes. These disruptions may impact the growth rates within the global logistics industry and our ability to provide transportation services for our customers, each of which may adversely impact our results of operations and operating cash flows. We may be unable to identify or complete suitable acquisitions and investments. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, products, services, or technologies. We cannot guarantee we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we cannot guarantee we will make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The timing and number of acquisitions we pursue may also cause volatility in our financial results. In addition, we may incur debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of any equity securities could be dilutive to our stockholders. Our sourcing business is dependent upon the supply and price of fresh produce. The supply and price of fresh produce is affected by weather and growing conditions, including but not limited to, flood, drought, freeze, insects, disease, and other conditions over which we have no control. Commodity prices can be affected by shortages or overproduction and are often highly volatile. If we are unable to secure fresh produce to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. To assure access to certain commodities, we occasionally make monetary advances to growers to finance their operations. Repayment of these advances is dependent upon the growers’ ability to grow and harvest marketable crops. 17 Company risk factors We rely on technology to operate our business. We have internally developed the majority of our operating systems and also rely on technology provided by third parties. Our continued success is dependent on our systems continuing to operate and to meet the changing needs of our customers and users. The continued automation of existing processes and usage of third-party technology and cloud network capacity will require adaptation and adjustments that may increase our exposure to cybersecurity risks and system availability reliance. We rely on our technology staff and third-party vendors to successfully implement changes to, and to maintain, our operating systems in an efficient manner. If we fail to maintain, protect, and enhance our operating systems, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and lose customers. As demonstrated by recent material and high-profile data security breaches, computer malware, viruses, computer hacking, and phishing attacks have become more prevalent, have occurred on our operating systems in the past, and may occur on our operating systems in the future. Previous attacks on our operating systems have not had a material financial impact on our operations, but we cannot guarantee future attacks will have little to no impact on our business. Furthermore, given the interconnected nature of the supply chain and our significant presence in the industry, we believe we may be an attractive target for such attacks. The insurance coverage we currently have in place may not apply to a particular loss or it may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities to which we may be subject. A loss for which we are not adequately insured could materially affect our financial results. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack, a significant impact on the performance, reliability, security, and availability of our operating systems and technical infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation, impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers, and expose us to legal claims and government action, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. Our international operations subject us to operational, financial, and data privacy risks. We provide services within and between foreign countries on an increasing basis. Our business outside of the U.S. is subject to various risks, including: • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements, and taxations; • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents; • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; • different liability standards; • intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our rights in our intellectual property, including but not limited to, our proprietary information systems, to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.; • issues related to non-compliance with laws, rules, and regulations in the countries in which we operate including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar regulations. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm, substantial penalties, and operational restrictions; and • global laws and regulations regarding the collection, use, processing, and transfer of personal information may impact our services by imposing restrictions on processing, increase legal claim liability, and increase regulatory scrutiny and fines. These requirements continue to evolve and vary by region and regime, which increases the risk of noncompliance and impacts operations, including additional expenses and resources necessary to manage compliant operations. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. As we continue to expand our business internationally, we expose the company to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations, as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in currency exchange gains or losses or could affect the book value of our assets and liabilities. Furthermore, we may experience unanticipated changes to our income tax liabilities resulting from changes in geographical income mix and changing international tax legislation. We have limited control over these risks, and if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects. 18 Our ability to appropriately staff and retain employees is important to our business model. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain motivated logistics professionals. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it may be more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs. We cannot guarantee we will be able to continue to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel. In addition, macroeconomic factors impacting the labor market may result in higher costs to hire and retain qualified personnel. Because of our comprehensive employee training program, our employees are attractive targets for new and existing competitors. Continued success depends in large part on our ability to develop successful employees into managers. We use, and may continue to expand our use of, machine learning and artificial intelligence (“AI”) technologies to deliver our services and operate our business. If we fail to successfully integrate AI into our platform and business processes, or if we fail to keep pace with rapidly evolving AI technological developments, including attracting and retaining talented AI developers and programmers and cybersecurity personnel, we may face a competitive disadvantage. At the same time, the use or offering of AI technologies may result in new or expanded risks and liabilities, including enhanced government or regulatory scrutiny, litigation, privacy and compliance issues, ethical concerns, confidentiality, reputational harm, and security risks. It is not possible to predict all of the risks related to the use of AI and changes in laws, rules, directives, and regulations governing the use of AI may adversely affect our ability to develop and use AI or subject us to legal liability. The cost of complying with laws and regulations governing AI could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, market demand and acceptance of AI technologies are uncertain, and we may be unsuccessful in efforts to further incorporate AI into our processes. We derive a significant portion of our total revenues and adjusted gross profits from our largest customers. During 2023, our top 100 customers based on total revenue comprised approximately 35 percent of our consolidated total revenues and our top 100 customers based on adjusted gross profits comprised approximately 28 percent of our consolidated adjusted gross profits. Our largest customer comprised approximately two percent of our consolidated total revenues. The sudden loss of major customers could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to the negative impacts of climate change, which could adversely impact our business and financial results. The potential impacts of climate change may subject us to various risks, including: • physical risks such as extreme weather conditions or other types of weather events, which could disrupt our operations; • compliance costs and transition risks such as increased regulation on us and on our contracted transportation providers; and • reputational and strategic risks due to shifts in customer demands such as customers requiring more fuel efficient transportation, autonomous transportation modes, or increased transparency to carbon emissions in their supply chains. Such impacts may disrupt our operations by adversely affecting our ability to procure services that meet regulatory or customer requirements and may negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. We may have difficulties integrating acquired companies. For acquisitions, success depends upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. If we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a short period of time, we may experience heightened difficulties integrating the acquired companies. We are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage. If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our growth and profitability may not continue, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. There can be no assurance that our long-term growth targets will be achieved or that we will be able to effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Future changes in and expansion of our business, or changes in economic or political conditions, could adversely affect our operating margins. Slower or less profitable growth or losses could adversely affect our stock price. 19 Our indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Significant adverse economic and industry conditions could negatively affect our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, possible acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases, or other investments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations or refinance these debt obligations with commercially acceptable terms, it may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We may be unable to comply with the various restrictions and covenants under our indebtedness, which may result in default and our outstanding indebtedness may become immediately due and payable and adversely impact our financial position. We may be adversely impacted by changing interest rates. We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt that carries floating interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, economic conditions, and other factors beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Governmental, regulatory, and legal risk factors Changes to income tax regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate may increase our tax liability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate. Changes to income tax laws and regulations in any of the jurisdictions where we operate could adversely affect our overall tax liability. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) reached agreement among various countries to implement a minimum 15 percent tax rate on certain multinational enterprises, commonly referred to as Pillar Two. Many countries continue to announce changes in their tax laws and regulations based on the Pillar Two proposals. We are continuing to evaluate the impact of these proposed and enacted legislative changes as new guidance becomes available. Some of these legislative changes could impact our effective tax rate and tax liabilities. Given the numerous proposed tax law changes and the uncertainty regarding such proposed legislative changes, the impact of Pillar Two could adversely impact our effective tax rate, financial position, and results of operations. We are subject to claims arising from our transportation operations. We use the services of thousands of third-party transportation companies in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, the drivers employed and engaged by the motor carriers with which we contract are involved in accidents, which may result in serious personal injuries. The resulting types and/or amounts of damages may be excluded by or exceed the amount of insurance coverage maintained by the contracted motor carrier. We contractually require all motor carriers we work with to carry at least $750,000 in automobile liability insurance. We also require all contracted motor carriers to maintain workers compensation and other insurance coverage as required by law. Most contracted motor carriers have insurance exceeding these minimum requirements, as well as cargo insurance in varying policy amounts. Railroads, which are generally self-insured, provide limited common carrier cargo loss or damage liability protection, generally up to $250,000 per shipme nt. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are employees, owner-operators, or independent contractors working for the contracted motor carriers, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for their actions or for our actions in retaining them. Cl aims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance at all. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims, workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability. Our involvement in the transportation of certain goods, including but not limited to, hazardous materials, could also increase our exposure in the event one of our contracted motor carriers is involved in an accident resulting in injuries or contamination. In North America, as a property freight broker, we are not legally liable for loss or damage to our customers' cargo. In our customer contracts, we may agree to assume cargo liability up to a stated maximum. We typically do not assume cargo liability to our customers above minimum industry standards in our international freight forwarding, ocean transportation, or air freight businesses on international or domestic air shipments. Although we are not legally liable for loss or damage to our customers' cargo, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for cargo losses. We maintain a broad cargo liability insurance policy to help protect us against catastrophic losses that may not be recovered from the responsible contracted carrier. We also carry various liability insurance policies, including automobile and general liability, with a $125 million umbrella with up to a $10 million retention, an additional $10 million corridor retention, and a $6.5 million retention in various layers throughout the umbrella. 20 Buying and reselling fresh produce exposes us to possible product liability. Agricultural chemicals used on fresh produce are subject to various approvals, and the commodities themselves are subject to regulations on cleanliness and contamination. Product recalls in the produce industry have been caused by concern about particular chemicals and alleged contamination, often leading to lawsuits brought by consumers of allegedly affected produce. We may face claims for a variety of damages arising from the sale of produce, which may include potentially uninsured consequential damages. While we are insured for up to $125 million for product liability claims subject to a $500,000 per incident deductible, settlement of class action claims is often costly, and we cannot guarantee our coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to be available. If we have to recall produce, we may be required to bear the cost of repurchasing, transporting, and destroying any allegedly contaminated product, as well as associated consequential damages. We carry product recall and contamination insurance coverage of $30 million. A loss for which we are not adequately insured could materially affect our financial results. The coverage we currently have in place may not apply to a particular loss, or it may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities to which we may be subject. This policy has a retention of $3.5 million per incident. Any recall or allegation of contamination could affect our reputation, particularly of our proprietary and/or licensed branded produce programs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Loss due to spoilage (including the need for disposal) is also a routine part of the sourcing business. Any material litigation related to the above types of claims or claims arising from our transportation operations may require significant time from management and could cause us to incur substantial legal and related costs, which may include damages that could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our business depends upon compliance with numerous government regulations. Our operations may be regulated and licensed by various federal, state, and local transportation agencies in the U.S. and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. We are subject to licensing and regulation as a property freight broker and are licensed by the DOT to arrange for the transportation of property by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including certain surety bonding requirements. For purposes of our Global Forwarding services, we are also subject to regulation by the FMC as an ocean freight forwarder and NVOCC, and we maintain separate bonds and licenses for each. We operate as a Department of Homeland Security certified IAC, providing air freight services, subject to commercial standards set forth by the IATA and federal regulations issued by the TSA. We provide customs brokerage services as a customs broker under a license issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”), and we maintain Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism certification with CBP. Some customs entries fall within the jurisdiction of other authoritative governmental agencies (e.g., Food and Drug Administration, Fish and Wildlife Service, etc.). We also have and maintain other licenses as required by law. We source fresh produce under a license issued by the USDA as required by PACA. We are also subject to various regulations and requirements promulgated by other international, domestic, state, and local agencies and port authorities. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to entities holding these licenses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Legislative or regulatory changes can affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. As part of our logistics services, we operate owned or leased warehouse facilities. Our operations at these facilities include both warehousing and distribution services, and we are subject to various federal, state, and international environmental, work safety, and hazardous materials regulations. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been or will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. No assurances can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers in the form of rate increases or surcharges, and our operations and profitability may be materially and adversely affected as a result. Department of Homeland Security regulations applicable to our customers that import goods into the U.S. and our contracted ocean carriers can impact our ability to provide and/or receive services with and from these parties. Enforcement measures related to violations of these regulations can slow and/or prevent the delivery of shipments, which may negatively impact our operations. We cannot predict the impact that future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. 21 Our contracted transportation providers are subject to increasingly stringent laws protecting the environment, including transitional risks relating to climate change, which could directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business. Future and existing environmental regulatory requirements, including evolving transportation technology, in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating expenses, which in turn could increase our purchased transportation costs. We may also incur expenses as a result of regulators requiring additional climate-related disclosures regarding our contracted transportation providers that may be labor-intensive to report on. Until the timing, scope, and extent of such possible regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our company, but if we are unable to pass such costs along to our customers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Even without any new legislation or regulation, increased public concern regarding greenhouse gas emissions by transportation carriers could harm the reputations of companies operating in the transportation and logistics industries and shift consumer demand toward more locally sourced products and away from our services. General risk factors We may be subject to negative impacts of changes in political and governmental conditions. Our operations may be subject to the influences of significant political, governmental, and similar changes and our ability to respond to them, including: • changes in political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in and compliance with international and domestic laws and regulations; and • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts such as the current conflict in the Red Sea, which is impacting the global freight market. We may be subject to negative impacts of catastrophic events. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attack, strike, civil unrest, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in providing services or performing other critical functions. We are particularly vulnerable to these risks given the broad and global scope of our operations. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and adversely impact our operating results.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“C.H. Robinson,” “the company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is one of the largest global logistics companies in the world, with consolidated total revenues of $17.6 billion in 2023. We bring together customers, carriers, and suppliers to connect and grow supply chains. We are grounded in our customer promise to use our technology, which is built by and for supply chain experts and powered by our information advantage, to deliver smarter solutions. These global solutions, combined with the expertise of our people, deliver value–from improved cost reductions and reliability to sustainability and visibility–that our customers and carriers can rely on. Our adjusted gross profits and adjusted gross profit margin are non-GAAP financial measures. Adjusted gross profits is calculated as gross profits excluding amortization of internally developed software utilized to directly serve our customers and contracted carriers. Adjusted gross profit margin is calculated as adjusted gross profits divided by total revenues. We believe adjusted gross profits and adjusted gross profit margin are useful measures of our ability to source, add value, and sell services and products that are provided by third parties, and we consider adjusted gross profits to be a primary performance measurement. Accordingly, the discussion of our results of operations often focuses on the changes in our adjusted gross profits and adjusted gross profit margin. The reconciliation of gross profits to adjusted gross profits and gross profit margin to adjusted gross profit margin is presented below (dollars in thousands): Our adjusted operating margin is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as operating income divided by adjusted gross profit. We believe adjusted operating margin is a useful measure of our profitability in comparison to our adjusted gross profit, which we consider a primary performance metric as discussed above. The reconciliation of operating margin to adjusted operating margin is presented below (dollars in thousands) : 27 MARKET TRENDS The North America surface transportation market continues to experience weak freight demand combined with excess carrier capacity, which is resulting in an oversupplied and very competitive market. These conditions are typically referred to as a soft market and have existed throughout most of 2023 with transportation rates at, or near, the estimated cost to operate a truck. This compared to historically elevated transportation rates in the first half of 2022 before global demand began to slow and market conditions began to soften in the middle of 2022. One of the metrics we use to measure market conditions is the truckload routing guide depth from our Managed Services business. Routing guide depth represents the average number of carriers contacted prior to acceptance when procuring a transportation provider. Average routing guide depth has remained low throughout 2023 and finished the year at 1.2, representing that on average, the first carrier in a shipper's routing guide was executing the shipment in most cases. Average routing guide depth started at 1.7 in 2022 before the softening market conditions resulted in a decline to 1.2 at the end of 2022 and holding at those levels throughout 2023. Similar to the North America surface transportation market, the global forwarding market was soft throughout 2023 as ocean vessel capacity has continued to expand relative to demand. These softening market conditions began in the middle of 2022 and continued throughout 2023. New vessel deliveries are expected to continue in the near term and further increase capacity in the industry and put downward pressure on ocean freight rates into the coming year. Partially offsetting these factors are global disruptions, which are impacting the capacity market and resulting in transit interruptions and vessel reroutings. These are expected to strain capacity in the coming year and result in elevated pricing, although the timeline to resolve these disruptions remains unclear. There continues to be more than sufficient air freight capacity in the market, which has kept air freight rates suppressed throughout 2023. BUSINESS TRENDS Our 2023 surface transportation results were largely consistent with the trends discussed in the market trends section. The weak freight demand and excess carrier capacity in the market has resulted in most shipments moving under committed pricing agreements and suppressed freight rates on the limited number of shipments reaching the spot market. This resulted in declines in both our total revenues and adjusted gross profits in 2023. This compared to the prior year where surface transportation rates were declining from historically elevated levels, which benefited our results in 2022 as periods where the cost of transportation declines often results in improved adjusted gross profits per shipment in our portfolio. Our average truckload linehaul cost per mile, excluding fuel surcharges, decreased approximately 18.5 percent during 2023. Our average truckload linehaul rate charged to our customers, excluding fuel surcharges, decreased approximately 21.0 percent during 2023. Our 2023 Global Forwarding results were largely consistent with the trends discussed above in the market trends section. We experienced a decline in both total revenues and adjusted gross profits in our ocean and air freight businesses in 2023 compared to the prior year. These declines were largely driven by the weak global demand and the excess ocean vessel capacity in the market during 2023. The prior year benefited from elevated demand and higher transportation rates in the first half of 2022 before they began to rapidly decline in the second half of 2022 and into 2023. Our total ocean freight volumes decreased 5.0 percent while our air freight tonnage decreased 6.5 percent in 2023. 28 SELECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ITEMS The following summarizes select 2023 year-over-year operating comparisons to 2022: • Total revenues decreased 28.7 percent to $17.6 billion, primarily driven by lower pricing in our ocean and truckload services. • Gross profits decreased 27.9 percent to $2.6 billion. Adjusted gross profits decreased 27.5 percent to $2.6 billion, primarily driven by lower adjusted gross profits per transaction in truckload and ocean services. • Personnel expenses decreased 14.9 percent to $1.5 billion, primarily due to cost optimization efforts and lower variable compensation. Average employee headcount decreased 8.9 percent. • Other selling, general, and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 3.5 percent to $624.3 million, primarily due to a $25.3 million gain on the sale-leaseback of our Kansas City regional center recorded in the prior year, partially offset by decreased purchased and contracted services in the current year. • Income from operations totaled $514.6 million, down 59.4 percent from last year, due to a decline in adjusted gross profits, partially offset by the decline in operating expenses. Adjusted operating margin of 19.8 percent decreased 1,550 basis points. • Interest and other expenses, net totaled $105.4 million, which primarily consisted of $90.2 million of interest expense, which increased $13.1 million versus last year due to higher average variable interest rates. The current year results also included a $24.4 million net loss from foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses. • The effective tax rate for 2023 was 20.5 percent compared to 19.4 percent in 2022. The higher rate in 2023 was due primarily due to the higher tax rate on foreign earnings and the impact of the Section 199 domestic production activities settlement, partially offset by the tax impact of foreign tax credits. • Net income totaled $325.1 million, down 65.4 percent from a year ago. Diluted earnings per share decreased 63.2 percent to $2.72. 29 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes our results of operations (dollars in thousands, except per share data): ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources includes a comparison of the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, to the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. A similar discussion and analysis that compares the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, to the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, can be found in Item 7, “ Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, ” of our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 17, 2023. A reconciliation of our reportable segments to our consolidated results can be found in Note 9, Segment Reporting, in Part II, Financial Information of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Consolidated Results of Operations—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Total revenues and direct costs. Total transportation revenues and direct costs decreased driven by lower pricing and freight costs in nearly all service lines, most notably ocean and truckload services. In addition, volume declined in nearly all transportation services compared to the prior year. Transportation rates have declined from the prior year driven by the weak freight demand combined with excess carrier capacity experienced throughout most of 2023 in both the surface transportation and global forwarding markets. Transportation rates remained historically elevated for the first half of 2022 before global demand began to slow and market conditions began to soften in the middle of 2022 and continued throughout 2023. Our sourcing total revenue and direct costs increased, driven by an increase in case volume with foodservice and retail customers. 30 Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Our transportation adjusted gross profits decreased due to lower adjusted gross profits per transaction in truckload and ocean services, in addition to decreased volumes in nearly all service lines. The lower adjusted gross profits per transaction was driven by the weak freight demand and excess capacity in the surface transportation and global forwarding markets discussed in the market trends and business trends sections above, which have suppressed freight rates in the twelve months ended December 31, 2023. Our prior year surface transportation adjusted gross profits per transaction benefited from market conditions beginning to soften, resulting in the declining cost of purchased transportation relative to our contractual rates negotiated in prior quarters. Similarly, freight demand and transportation rates remained historically elevated in the first half of 2022 in the global forwarding market until they began to rapidly decline in the second half of 2022 and into 2023. Sourcing adjusted gross profits increased, driven by integrated supply chain solutions for foodservice and wholesale customers as well as increased pricing and volume in the retail industry. Operating expenses. Personnel expenses decreased primarily due to cost optimization efforts including lower average employee headcount in addition to lower variable compensation decreased reflecting the decline in results relative to the prior year. Other SG&A expenses increased primarily due to a $23.5 million gain on the sale-leaseback of a facility in Kansas City in the prior year. This increase was partially offset by decreased purchased and contracted services, including temporary labor in 2023. Operating expenses in 2023 also included $18.4 million of severance and related expenses primarily related to our 2022 Restructuring Program and $19.6 million of other SG&A expenses related to exit and disposal costs including asset impairments from our South American Restructuring Program. Operating expenses in 2022 included $21.5 million of severance and related expenses and $15.2 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized internally developed software from our 2022 Restructuring Program. Refer to Note 15, Restructuring, in this report for further discussion related to our 2022 Restructuring and South American Restructuring Programs. Interest and other income/expense, net. Interest and other expense of $105.4 million, primarily consisted of $90.2 million of interest expense, which increased $13.1 million compared to the prior year due to a higher average variable interest rates compared to the prior year. The current year also included a $24.4 million unfavorable impact of foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses driven by a $16.4 million foreign currency loss related to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso. The prior year included a $23.5 million unfavorable impact of foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses driven primarily by balances denominated in U.S. Dollars, including intercompany balances, in regions where the U.S. Dollar is not the functional currency and a $9.3 million foreign currency loss related to the devaluation of the Argentine Peso. Provision for income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 20.5 percent in 2023 and 19.4 percent in 2022. The effective income tax rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate primarily due to the tax impact of foreign tax credits, U.S. tax credits and incentives, and the tax impact of share-based payment awards, which reduced the effective tax rate by 9.5 percentage points, 3.4 percentage points, and 2.2 percentage points, respectively. These impacts were partially offset by a higher tax rate on foreign earnings and the impact of the Section 199 domestic production activities settlement, which increased the effective tax rate by 6.7 percentage points and 4.7 percentage points, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate primarily due to the tax benefit from U.S. tax credits and incentives, foreign tax credits, and the tax impact of share-based payment awards, which reduced the effective tax rate by 2.0 percentage points, 1.2 percentage points, and 1.1 percentage points, respectively. These impacts were partially offset by state income taxes, net of federal benefits, which increased the effective tax rate by 2.1 percentage points. 31 NAST Segment Results of Operations ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Total revenues and direct costs. NAST total revenues and direct costs decreased driven by lower pricing and freight costs in truckload and LTL services compared to the prior year in addition to volume declines in both services. Transportation rates have declined from the prior year driven by weak freight demand resulting in declining volume combined with the excess carrier capacity experienced throughout most of 2023 in the surface transportation market. Transportation rates remained historically elevated for the first half of 2022 before global demand began to slow and market conditions began to soften in the middle of 2022, which continued throughout 2023. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. NAST adjusted gross profits decreased due to lower adjusted gross profits per transaction in truckload services and, to a lesser extent, LTL services. Volumes also declined in both services. The lower adjusted gross profits per transaction was driven by the weak freight demand and excess capacity in the surface transportation markets discussed in the market trends and business trends sections above, which have suppressed freight rates in the twelve months ended December 31, 2023. NAST adjusted gross profits per transaction in the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, benefited from market conditions beginning to soften, resulting in the declining cost of purchased transportation relative to our previously negotiated contractual rates. Our average truckload linehaul rate per mile charged to our customers decreased approximately 21.0 percent. Our truckload transportation costs, excluding fuel surcharges, decreased approximately 18.5 percent. Operating expenses. NAST personnel expenses decreased primarily due to cost optimization efforts, including lower average employee headcount, in addition to decreased variable compensation, reflecting the decline in results relative to the prior year. NAST SG&A expenses decreased primarily due to lower allocated corporate expenses and the impact of elevated legal settlements included in the prior year. NAST operating expenses also included $1.1 million and $6.3 million of severance and related expenses from our 2022 Restructuring Program in the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The twelve months ended December 31, 2022, also included $3.2 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized 32 internal developed software from our 2022 Restructuring Program. Refer to Note 15, Restructuring, for further discussion related to our 2022 Restructuring Program. The operating expenses of NAST and all other segments include allocated corporate expenses. Allocated personnel expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation allocated based upon segment participation levels in our equity plans. Remaining corporate allocations, including corporate functions and technology related expenses, are primarily included within each segment’s other SG&A expenses and allocated based upon relevant segment operating metrics. Global Forwarding Segment Results of Operations ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Total revenues and direct costs. Global Forwarding total revenues and direct costs decreased driven by lower pricing and purchased transportation costs in both ocean and air freight and, to a lesser extent, volume declines in both service lines. Transportation rates have declined from the prior year driven by the weak freight demand resulting in declining volume combined with excess carrier capacity experienced throughout most of 2023. In the prior year, freight demand and transportation rates in the global forwarding market remained historically elevated in the first half of 2022 until they began to rapidly decline in the second half of 2022 and into 2023. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Global Forwarding adjusted gross profits decreased due to lower adjusted gross profits per transaction in ocean and air freight services in addition to volume declines in both services. The lower adjusted gross profits per transaction was driven by the weak freight demand and excess carrier capacity in the global forwarding market discussed in the market trends and business trends sections above, which have suppressed freight rates in the twelve months ended December 31, 2023. In the prior year, freight demand and transportation rates remained historically elevated in the first half of 2022, resulting in elevated adjusted gross profits per transaction before they began to decline in the second half of 2022 to the levels experienced for most of the twelve months ended December 31, 2023. Customs adjusted gross profits decreased driven by a decline in transaction volumes. 33 Operating expenses. Personnel expenses decreased primarily due to cost optimization efforts, including lower average employee headcount and lower variable compensation, reflecting the decline in results relative to the prior year. Other SG&A expenses increased driven by an increase in restructuring expenses in the current year discussed below, partially offset by lower expenditures for purchased and contracted services, including those for temporary labor. Global Forwarding personnel expenses in the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, also included $3.8 million of severance and related expenses from our 2022 Restructuring and South American Restructuring Programs. The twelve months ended December 31, 2023, included $18.2 million of other SG&A expenses primarily related to losses on disposal and exit activities, including asset impairments from our South American Restructuring Program. The twelve months ended December 31, 2022, included $3.8 million of severance and related expenses and $3.2 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized internally developed software projects related to our 2022 Restructuring Program. Refer to Note 15, Restructuring, for further discussion related to our 2022 Restructuring and our South American Restructuring Programs. All Other and Corporate Segment Results of Operations All Other and Corporate includes our Robinson Fresh and Managed Services segment, as well as Other Surface Transportation outside of North America and other miscellaneous revenues and unallocated corporate expenses. ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2023 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Total revenues and direct costs. Total revenues and direct costs increased driven by an increase in case volume for foodservice and retail customers in Robinson Fresh. Other Surface Transportation total revenues and direct costs also increased, driven by higher truckload volumes in Europe. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Robinson Fresh adjusted gross profits increased driven by integrated supply chain solutions for foodservice and wholesale customers as well as increased pricing and volume in the retail industry. Managed Services adjusted gross profits increased due to growth in adjusted gross profits per transaction, partially offset by a reduction in freight under management, driven by the weak industry freight demand experienced in 2023. Other Surface Transportation adjusted gross profits decreased, primarily due to lower European truckload adjusted gross profits per transaction, partially offset by an increase in Europe truckload volumes. Operating expenses. The operating expenses in the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, for All Other and Corporate included $13.5 million of severance and related expenses from our 2022 Restructuring Program. The twelve months ended December 31, 2023, included $1.5 million of other SG&A expenses primarily from our 2022 Restructuring Program. The twelve months ended December 31, 2022, included $11.4 million of severance and related expenses and $8.8 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized internally developed software projects related to our 2022 Restructuring Program. Refer to Note 15, Restructuring, for further discussion related to our 2022 Restructuring Program. 34 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We have historically generated substantial cash from operations, which has enabled us to fund our organic growth while paying cash dividends and repurchasing stock. In addition, we maintain the following debt facilities as described in Note 4, Financing Arrangements (dollars in thousands): ________________________________ (1) Net of unamortized discounts and issuance costs. We expect to use our current debt facilities and potentially other indebtedness incurred in the future to assist us in continuing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, possible acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases, or other investments. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $145.5 million as of December 31, 2023, and $217.5 million as of December 31, 2022. Cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. totaled $142.8 million as of December 31, 2023, and $204.7 million as of December 31, 2022. Working capital increased from $266.4 million at December 31, 2022, to $828.7 million at December 31, 2023. We prioritize our investments to grow our market share and expand globally in key industries, trade lanes, and geographies, and to digitize our customer, carrier, and internal tools to support our organic growth. We are continually looking for acquisitions, but those acquisitions must fit our culture and enhance our growth opportunities. The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents (dollars in thousands): 35 Cash flow from operating activities. We generated significant cash flow from operating activities in 2022 driven by our strong operating results. Our net income in 2023 was adversely impacted by the weak freight demand and excess carrier capacity discussed in the market trends and business trends sections above. This impact significantly reduced our net income and cash flow from operating activities in 2023. Cash flow from operating activities in both 2023 and 2022 benefited from sequential declines in net operating working capital. The declines in net operating working capital were driven by the declining transportation rates discussed in the market trends and business trends sections above. We continue to closely monitor credit and collections activities and the quality of our accounts receivable balance to minimize risk as well as work with our customers to facilitate the movement of goods across their supply chains while also ensuring timely payment. Cash used for investing activities. Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures consisted primarily of investments in software, which are intended to deliver scalable solutions by transforming our processes, accelerating the pace of development, prioritizing data integrity, improving our customer and carrier experience, and increasing our efficiency to help expand our adjusted operating margins and grow the business. During 2022, we sold an office building in Kansas City, Missouri, for a sales price of $55.0 million and recognized a gain of $23.5 million on the sale in the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. We simultaneously entered into an agreement to lease the office building for 10 years. We anticipate capital expenditures in 2024 to be approximately $85 million to $95 million. Cash used for financing activities. We had net repayments on debt in 2023 and net borrowings on debt in 2022. Net repayments in 2023 were primarily to repay the Senior Notes Series A, which matured in August 2023, and the 364-Day Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility, which matured in May 2023. Net borrowings in 2022 were primarily to fund share repurchases and working capital needs in the first half of 2022 . The decrease in cash used for share repurchases was due to a significant decrease in the number of shares repurchased in 2023 compared to 2022 as minimal shares were repurchased in the second half of 2023. In December 2022 , the Board of Directors increased the number of shares authorized to be repurchased by 20,000,000 shares. As of December 31, 2023, there were 6,763,445 shares remaining for future repurchases. The number of shares we repurchase, if any, during future periods will vary based on our cash position, other potential uses of our cash, and market conditions. Over the long term, we remain committed to our quarterly dividend and share repurchases to enhance shareholder value. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. We may seek to retire or purchase our outstanding Senior Notes through open market cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. We believe that, assuming no change in our current business plan, our available cash, together with expected future cash generated from operations, the amount available under our credit facilities, and credit available in the market, will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditures, and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future thereafter. We also believe we could obtain funds under lines of credit or other forms of indebtedness on short notice, if needed. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and the related disclosures. Because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We consider the following items in our consolidated financial statements to require significant estimation or judgment. REVENUE RECOGNITION. At contract inception, we assess the goods and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify our performance obligations to provide distinct goods and services to our customers. Our transportation and logistics service arrangements often require management to use judgment and make estimates that impact the amounts and timing of revenue recognition. 36 Transportation and Logistics Services - As a global logistics provider, our primary performance obligation under our customer contracts is to utilize our relationships with a wide variety of transportation companies to efficiently and cost-effectively transport our customers’ freight. Revenue is recognized for these performance obligations as they are satisfied over the contract term, which generally represents the transit period. The transit period can vary based upon the method of transport; generally, a number of days for over the road, rail, and air transportation, or several weeks in the case of an ocean shipment. Recognizing revenue for contracts where the transit period is partially complete or completed and not yet invoiced at period end requires management to make judgments that affect the amounts and timing of revenue recognized at period end. As of December 31, 2023, we recorded revenue of $189.9 million for services we have provided while a shipment was still in-transit but for which we had not yet completed our performance obligation or had not yet invoiced our customer compared to $257.6 million at December 31, 2022. The amount of revenue recognized for contracts where the transit period was partially complete declined significantly at December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022, driven by the macroeconomic and industry factors impacting the cost of purchased transportation. See Item 7 of Part II, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , for further information. We utilize our historical knowledge of shipping lanes and estimated transit times to determine the transit period in cases where our customers’ freight has not reached its intended destination. In addition, we analyze contract data for the first few days following the reporting date combined with our historical experience of trends related to partially completed contracts as of the reporting date to determine our right to consideration for the services we have provided where the transit period is partially complete or completed and not yet invoiced at period end. Differences in contract data for the first few days following the reporting date compared with our historical experience or disruptions such as weather events, port congestion, or other delays could cause the actual amount of revenue earned at period end to differ from these estimates. Total revenues represent the total dollar value of revenue recognized from contracts with customers for the goods and services we provide. Substantially all of our revenue is attributable to contracts with our customers. Most transactions in our transportation and sourcing businesses are recorded at the gross amount we charge our customers for the services we provide and goods we sell. In these transactions, we are primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service to our customer and we have discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. Additionally, in our sourcing business, in some cases we take inventory risk before the specified good has been transferred to our customer. Customs brokerage, managed services, freight forwarding, and sourcing managed procurement transactions are recorded at the net amount we charge our customers for the service we provide because many of the factors stated above are not present. See also Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , for further information regarding our revenue recognition policies. GOODWILL. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquired businesses over the net of the fair value of identifiable tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets purchased and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually on November 30, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Typically, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units is less than their respective carrying value (“Step Zero Analysis”). If the Step Zero Analysis indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units is less than their respective carrying value, an additional impairment assessment is performed (“Step One Analysis”). When we perform a Step One Analysis, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. In the Step One Analysis, the fair value of each reporting unit is determined using either a discounted cash flow analysis, the market approach, or a combination of both. Projecting discounted future cash flows requires the use of significant judgement to make significant estimates regarding future revenues and expenses, projected capital expenditures, changes in working capital, and the appropriate discount rate. Use of the market approach consists of comparisons to comparable publicly-traded companies that are similar in size and industry. Actual results may differ from those used in our valuations when a Step One Analysis is performed. As part of our annual goodwill impairment testing performed in 2023, we elected to bypass the Step Zero Analysis and perform a Step One Analysis on all of our reporting units. There were not factors present for any reporting units, other than Europe Surface Transportation, indicating it was more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting unit was less than its respective carrying value. Consistent with our 2022 annual impairment test, certain qualitative factors were present and the performance of our Europe Surface Transportation unit indicated that the fair value may not exceed its carrying value, requiring a Step One Analysis. The results of our Step One Analysis indicated the fair value of our NAST, Global Forwarding, Robinson Fresh, and Managed Services reporting units significantly exceeded their respective carrying values and the risk of goodwill impairment 37 was remote. The fair value of our Europe Surface Transportation reporting unit also exceeded its carrying value with greater than 30 percent cushion, and as such, the goodwill balance was not impaired. No impairments have been recorded in any period presented in the financial statements. INCOME TAX RESERVES. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged and we may or may not prevail in full or in part. Under U.S. GAAP, if we determine a tax position, more likely than not, will be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon resolution. We presume all tax positions will be examined by a taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. We regularly monitor our tax positions and tax liabilities. We reevaluate the technical merits of our tax positions and recognize an uncertain tax benefit, or derecognize a previously recorded tax benefit, when there is (i) a completion of a tax audit, (ii) effective settlement of an issue, (iii) litigation of the issue, including appeals, (iv) a change in applicable tax law including a tax case or legislative guidance, or (v) the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Significant judgment is required in accounting for income tax reserves. Although we believe we have adequately provided for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, consolidated earnings, financial position, and/or cash flows. Uncertain income tax positions are included in “Accrued income taxes” or “Noncurrent income taxes payable” in the consolidated balance sheets. DISCLOSURES ABOUT CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL CONTINGENCIES The following table aggregates all contractual commitments and commercial obligations, due by period, that affect our financial condition and liquidity position as of December 31, 2023 (dollars in thousands): ________________________________ (1) Amounts payable relate to the semi-annual interest due on the senior and long-term notes and the principal amount at maturity. (2) We maintain operating leases for office space, warehouses, office equipment, and trailers. See Note 11, Leases , for further information. (3) Purchase obligations include agreements for services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. As of December 31, 2023, such obligations primarily include ocean and air freight capacity, telecommunications services, third-party software contracts, maintenance contracts, and information technology related capacity. In some instances, our contractual commitments may be usage based or require estimates as to the timing of cash settlement. We have no financing lease obligations. Long-term liabilities consist primarily of noncurrent taxes payable and long-term notes payable. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the amounts or timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2023, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, $20.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 5, Income Taxes , to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. As of December 31, 2023, we do not have significant off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. 38