********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following are material factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements, including those made in oral presentations such as telephone conferences and webcasts open to the public. Business environment and competition risk factors Economic recessions could have a significant, adverse impact on our business. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recession, downturns in business cycles of our customers, interest rate fluctuations, currency fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. Deterioration in the economic environment subjects our business to various risks, which may have a material and adverse impact on our operating results and cause us to not reach our long-term growth goals: • Decrease in volumes: A reduction in overall freight volumes in the marketplace may reduce our opportunities for growth. A significant portion of our freight are transactional or spot market opportunities. The transactional market may be more impacted than the contractual freight market by supply chain disruptions or overall economic conditions. In addition, if a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volume of freight shipped by those customers, particularly among certain national retailers or in the food, beverage, retail, manufacturing, paper, ecommerce, or printing industries, our operating results could be adversely affected. • Credit risk and working capital: Some of our customers may face economic difficulties and may not be able to pay us, and some may go out of business. In addition, some customers may not pay us as quickly as they have in the past, which may cause our working capital needs to increase. • Transportation provider failures: A significant number of our contracted transportation providers may go out of business and we may be unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers. • Expense management: We may not be able to appropriately adjust our expenses to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it may be more difficult to match our staffing levels to our business needs. In addition, we have other expenses that are fixed for a period of time, and we may not be able to adequately adjust them in a period of rapid change in market demand. Higher carrier prices may result in decreased adjusted gross profit margin and increases in working capital. Carriers can be expected to charge higher prices if market conditions warrant or to cover higher operating expenses. Our adjusted gross profit and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to increase our pricing to our customers. Increased demand for over the road transportation services and changes in regulations may reduce available capacity and increase motor carrier pricing. In some instances where we have entered into contract freight rates with customers, in the event market conditions change and those contracted rates are below market rates, we may be required to provide transportation services at a loss. As our volumes increase or we increase freight rates charged to our customers, the resulting increase in revenues may increase our working capital needs due to our business model which generally has a higher length of days sales outstanding than days payables outstanding. Changing fuel costs and interruptions of fuel supplies may have an impact on our adjusted gross profit margins. In our truckload transportation business, fluctuating fuel prices may result in decreased adjusted gross profit margin. While our different pricing arrangements with customers and contracted motor carriers make it very difficult to measure the precise impact, we believe that fuel costs essentially act as a pass-through cost to our truckload business. In times of fluctuating fuel prices, our adjusted gross profit margin may also fluctuate. Adjusted gross profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 16 Our dependence on third parties to provide equipment and services may impact the delivery and quality of our transportation and logistics services. We do not employ the people directly involved in delivering our customers’ freight. We depend on independent third parties to provide truck, rail, ocean, and air services and to report certain events to us, including but not limited to, shipment status information and freight claims. These independent third parties may not fulfill their obligations to us, which may prevent us from meeting our commitments to our customers. This reliance also could cause delays in reporting certain events, including recognizing claims. In addition, if we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services from third parties to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including: • equipment and driver shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among contracted motor carriers; • changes in regulations impacting transportation; • disruption in the supply or cost of fuel; • reduction or deterioration in rail service; and • unanticipated changes in freight markets. We face substantial industry competition. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense and broad-based. We compete against traditional and non-traditional logistics companies, including transportation providers that own equipment, third-party freight brokers, technology matching services, internet freight brokers, carriers offering logistics services, and on-demand transportation service providers. We also compete against carriers’ internal sales forces. In addition, customers can bring in-house some of the services we provide to them. We often buy and sell transportation services from and to many of our competitors. Increased competition could reduce our market opportunity and create downward pressure on freight rates, and continued rate pressure may adversely affect our adjusted gross profit and income from operations. In some instances where we have entered into contract freight rates with customers, in the event market conditions change and those contracted rates are below market rates, we may be required to provide transportation services at a loss. Our sourcing business is dependent upon the supply and price of fresh produce. The supply and price of fresh produce is affected by weather and growing conditions including but not limited to flood, drought, freeze, insects, disease, and other conditions over which we have no control. Commodity prices can be affected by shortages or overproduction and are often highly volatile. If we are unable to secure fresh produce to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. To assure access to certain commodities, we occasionally make monetary advances to growers to finance their operations. Repayment of these advances is dependent upon the growers’ ability to grow and harvest marketable crops. Our earnings may be affected by seasonal changes or significant disruptions in the transportation industry. Results of operations for our industry generally show a seasonal pattern as customers reduce shipments during and after the winter holiday season. We believe this historical pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors, including national holidays, weather patterns, consumer demand, economic conditions, and other similar and subtle forces. Although seasonal changes in the transportation industry have not had a significant impact on our cash flow or results of operations, we expect this trend to continue and we cannot guarantee that it will not adversely impact us in the future. The transportation industry may also be significantly impacted by disruptions such as port congestion, the availability of transportation equipment, and labor shortages. These disruptions may impact our ability to provide transportation services for our customers and may adversely impact our results of operations and operating cash flows. We may be unable to identify or complete suitable acquisitions and investments. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, products, services, or technologies. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we cannot guarantee that we will make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The timing and number of acquisitions we pursue may also cause volatility in our financial results. In addition, we may incur debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of any equity securities could be dilutive to our stockholders. 17 Company risk factors We rely on technology to operate our business. We have internally developed the majority of our operating systems and also rely on technology provided by third parties. Our continued success is dependent on our systems continuing to operate and to meet the changing needs of our customers and users. The continued automation of existing processes and usage of third-party technology and cloud network capacity will require adaptation and adjustments that may increase our exposure to cybersecurity risks and system availability reliance. We rely on our technology staff and third-party vendors to successfully implement changes to and maintain our operating systems in an efficient manner. If we fail to maintain, protect, and enhance our operating systems, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and lose customers. As demonstrated by recent material and high-profile data security breaches, computer malware, viruses, computer hacking, and phishing attacks have become more prevalent, have occurred on our operating systems in the past, and may occur on our operating systems in the future. Previous attacks on our operating systems have not had a material financial impact on our operations, but we cannot guarantee that future attacks will have little to no impact on our business. Furthermore, given the interconnected nature of the supply chain and our significant presence in the industry, we believe that we may be an attractive target for such attacks. A loss for which we are not adequately insured could materially affect our financial results. The coverage we currently have in place may not apply to a particular loss or it may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities to which we may be subject. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack, a significant impact on the performance, reliability, security, and availability of our operating systems and technical infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation, impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers, and expose us to legal claims and government action, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. Our international operations subject us to operational and financial risks. We provide services within and between foreign countries on an increasing basis. Our business outside of the United States is subject to various risks, including: • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements, and taxations; • difficulties in managing, or overseeing foreign operations and agents; • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; • different liability standards; and • intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our rights in our intellectual property, including but not limited to, our proprietary information systems, to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. As we continue to expand our business internationally, we expose the company to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations, as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in currency exchange gains or losses or could affect the book value of our assets and liabilities. Furthermore, we may experience unanticipated changes to our income tax liabilities resulting from changes in geographical income mix and changing international tax legislation. We have limited control over these risks, and if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects. Our ability to appropriately staff and retain employees is important to our variable cost model. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain a large group of motivated salespeople and other logistics professionals. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it may be more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel. Because of our comprehensive employee training program, our employees are attractive targets for new and existing competitors. Continued success depends in large part on our ability to develop successful employees into managers. We derive a significant portion of our total revenue and adjusted gross profit from our largest customers. Our top 100 customers comprise approximately 33 percent of our consolidated total revenue and 26 percent of consolidated adjusted gross profit. Our largest customer comprises approximately two percent of our consolidated total revenue. The sudden loss of major customers could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 18 We may have difficulties integrating acquired companies. For acquisitions, success depends upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. If we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a short period of time, we may experience heightened difficulties in integrating the acquired companies. We are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage. If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our growth and profitability may not continue, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. There can be no assurance that our long-term growth targets will be achieved or that we will be able to effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Future changes in and expansion of our business, or changes in economic or political conditions, could adversely affect our operating margins. Slower or less profitable growth or losses could adversely affect our stock price. Governmental, regulatory, and legal risk factors Changes to income tax regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate may increase our tax liability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate. Changes to income tax laws and regulations in any of the jurisdictions where we operate could significantly increase our effective tax rate and reduce our operating cash flows. We are subject to claims arising from our transportation operations. We use the services of thousands of transportation companies in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, the drivers employed and engaged by the motor carriers we contract with are involved in accidents, which may result in serious personal injuries. The resulting types and/or amounts of damages may be excluded by or exceed the amount of insurance coverage maintained by the contracted motor carrier. We contractually require all motor carriers we work with to carry at least $750,000 in automobile liability insurance. We also require all contracted motor carriers to maintain workers compensation and other insurance coverage as required by law. Most contracted motor carriers have insurance exceeding these minimum requirements, as well as cargo insurance in varying policy amounts. Railroads, which are generally self-insured, provide limited common carrier cargo loss or damage liability protection, generally up to $250,000 per shipme nt. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are employees, owner-operators, or independent contractors working for the contracted motor carriers, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for their actions or for our actions in retaining them. Cl aims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance at all. In addition, our automobile liability policy has a primary retention of $5 million per incident. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims or workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability. Our involvement in the transportation of certain goods, including but not limited to, hazardous materials, could also increase our exposure in the event one of our contracted motor carriers is involved in an accident resulting in injuries or contamination. In North America, as a property freight broker, we are not legally liable for loss or damage to our customers' cargo. In our customer contracts, we may agree to assume cargo liability up to a stated maximum. We typically do not assume cargo liability to our customers above minimum industry standards in our international freight forwarding, ocean transportation, or air freight businesses on international or domestic air shipments. Although we are not legally liable for loss or damage to our customers' cargo, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for cargo losses. We maintain a broad cargo liability insurance policy to help protect us against catastrophic losses that may not be recovered from the responsible contracted carrier. We also carry various liability insurance policies, including automobile and general liability, with a $155 million umbrella where we carry retentions between $0.5 million and $5 million. 19 Buying and reselling fresh produce exposes us to possible product liability. Agricultural chemicals used on fresh produce are subject to various approvals, and the commodities themselves are subject to regulations on cleanliness and contamination. Product recalls in the produce industry have been caused by concern about particular chemicals and alleged contamination, often leading to lawsuits brought by consumers of allegedly affected produce. We may face claims for a variety of damages arising from the sale of produce, which may include potentially uninsured consequential damages. While we are insured for up to $155 million for product liability claims subject to a $500,000 per incident deductible, settlement of class action claims is often costly, and we cannot guarantee that our coverage will be adequate and will continue to be available. If we have to recall produce, we may be required to bear the cost of repurchasing, transporting, and destroying any allegedly contaminated product, as well as associated consequential damages. We carry product recall and contamination insurance coverage of $30 million. A loss for which we are not adequately insured could materially affect our financial results. The coverage we currently have in place may not apply to a particular loss, or it may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities to which we may be subject. This policy has a retention of $3.5 million per incident. Any recall or allegation of contamination could affect our reputation, particularly of our proprietary and/or licensed branded produce programs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Loss due to spoilage (including the need for disposal) is also a routine part of the sourcing business. Our business depends upon compliance with numerous government regulations. Our operations may be regulated and licensed by various federal, state, and local transportation agencies in the United States and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. We are subject to licensing and regulation as a property freight broker and are licensed by the DOT to arrange for the transportation of property by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including certain surety bonding requirements. We are also subject to regulation by the FMC as an ocean freight forwarder and NVOCC, and we maintain separate bonds and licenses for each. We operate as a Department of Homeland Security certified IAC, providing air freight services, subject to commercial standards set forth by the IATA and federal regulations issued by the TSA. We provide customs brokerage services as a customs broker under a license issued by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other authoritative governmental agencies. We also have and maintain other licenses as required by law. We source fresh produce under a license issued by the USDA as required by PACA. We are also subject to various regulations and requirements promulgated by other international, domestic, state, and local agencies and port authorities. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to entities holding these licenses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Legislative or regulatory changes can affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. As part of our logistics services, we operate owned or leased warehouse facilities. Our operations at these facilities include both warehousing and distribution services, and we are subject to various federal, state, and international environmental, work safety, and hazardous materials regulations. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been or will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. No assurances can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers in the form of rate increases or surcharges, and our operations and profitability may be materially and adversely affected as a result. Department of Homeland Security regulations applicable to our customers who import goods into the U.S. and our contracted ocean carriers can impact our ability to provide and/or receive services with and from these parties. Enforcement measures related to violations of these regulations can slow and/or prevent the delivery of shipments, which may negatively impact our operations. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. Our contracted motor carriers are subject to increasingly stringent laws protecting the environment, including transitional risks relating to climate change, which could directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business. Future and existing environmental regulatory requirements, including evolving transportation technology, in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating expenses, which in turn could increase our purchased transportation costs. If we are unable to pass such costs along to our customers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Even without any new legislation or regulation, increased public concern regarding greenhouse gases emitted by transportation carriers could harm the reputations of companies operating in the transportation logistics industries and shift consumer demand toward more locally sourced products and away from our services. 20 General risk factors We are subject to negative impacts of changes in political and governmental conditions. Our operations are subject to the influences of significant political, governmental, and similar changes and our ability to respond to them, including: • changes in political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in and compliance with international and domestic laws and regulations; and • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts. We may be subject to negative impacts of catastrophic events, including the physical impacts of climate change . A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attack, strike, civil unrest, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in providing services or performing other critical functions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and adversely impact our operating results. In addition, the company is continuously monitoring the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has already caused a significant disruption to global financial markets and supply chains and has resulted in numerous travel restrictions and the shutdown of certain businesses across the globe. We have experienced changes and volatility in demand, including declines in certain industries and regions, along with volatile pricing. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have adopted work-from-home arrangements, and many of our employees are working remotely while executing their duties and responsibilities. The extent to which the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operating results will depend on future developments, which remain highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of outbreaks, the emergence of COVID-19 variants, and the effectiveness of local, state, federal, and international actions that are being taken to contain and treat it. There continues to be uncertainty around the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its broader impact on the economy, and therefore, the effects it will have on our operations and financial results remain uncertain. If economic or market conditions in key global markets deteriorate, it may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and we may experience material adverse effects on our financial positions.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“C.H. Robinson,” “the company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is one of the world's largest logistics platforms. Our mission is to improve the world's supply chains through our people, processes, and technology by delivering exceptional value to our customers and suppliers. We provide freight transportation services and logistics solutions to companies of all sizes in a wide variety of industries. We operate through a network of offices in North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America. We offer a global suite of services using tailored, market-leading differentiated technology built by and for our global network of supply chain experts working with our customers to drive better outcomes by leveraging our experience, data, technology, and scale. Our global network of supply chain experts works with our customers to drive better supply chain outcomes by leveraging our experience, data, technology, and scale. Our adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross profit margin are non-GAAP financial measures. Adjusted gross profit is calculated as gross profit excluding amortization of internally developed software utilized to directly serve our customers and contracted carriers. Adjusted gross profit margin is calculated as adjusted gross profit divided by total revenues. We believe adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross profit margin are useful measures of our ability to source, add value, and sell services and products that are provided by third parties, and we consider adjusted gross profit to be a primary performance measurement. Accordingly, the discussion of our results of operations often focuses on the changes in our adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross profit margin. The reconciliation of gross profit to adjusted gross profit and gross profit margin to adjusted gross profit margin is presented below (dollars in thousands): Our adjusted operating margin is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as operating income divided by adjusted gross profit. We believe adjusted operating margin is a useful measure of our profitability in comparison to our adjusted gross profit, which we consider a primary performance metric as discussed above. The reconciliation of operating margin to adjusted operating margin is presented below (dollars in thousands) : 25 MARKET TRENDS The North American surface transportation market experienced extremely tight carrier capacity in 2021 as strong demand combined with ongoing driver availability and supply chain disruptions caused by port congestion and weather events drove purchased transportation to historic levels. This compared to an extremely volatile market in 2020 resulting from the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic and restrictions implemented to control the outbreak, which drove significant volatility in customer demand and carrier capacity.  Industry freight volumes, as measured by the Cass Freight Index, increased approximately 13 percent in 2021 compared to 2020 and experienced growth in each quarter of 2021 compared to 2020. This compared to a decline of approximately eight percent in 2020 compared to 2019 with significant volatility over the course of 2020. One of the metrics we use to measure market conditions is the truckload routing guide depth from our Managed Services business. Routing guide depth is calculated as a simple average of all accepted shipments over all tender instances for any shipment facilitated by our Managed Services business. The average routing guide depth was 1.7 in 2021 compared to 1.4 in 2020. The average routing guide depth increased steadily during the second half of 2020 and finished in line with those seen over the duration of 2021. The global forwarding market has also been significantly impacted by supply chain disruptions caused by ongoing port congestion along with equipment and labor shortages in 2021. These disruptions combined with strong demand have continued to drive purchased transportation costs for both ocean and air freight to historic levels. As with the North American surface transportation market, this compared to the significant volatility seen in 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a sharp decline in commercial air freight capacity and periods of significantly reduced ocean freight demand due to factory closures followed by a rapid surge of demand in the second half of 2020 when production resumed and companies began to replenish low inventory levels amidst the market uncertainty. BUSINESS TRENDS Our 2021 surface transportation results were impacted by the rising cost and price environment summarized in the market trends section above. We did not, however, experience the significant year over year volume volatility seen in the industry as measured by the Cass Freight Index. Industry freight volumes increased approximately 13 percent in 2021 compared to a decline of eight percent in 2020. Our combined NAST truckload and LTL volume increased 5.5 percent in both 2021 and 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on our small business customers in 2020 as our customer count decreased nearly 12 percent, driven almost entirely by small and emerging market customers. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic we have continued to work with our customers to meet our contractual commitments, which has resulted in a higher than normal percentage of shipments with negative adjusted gross profit margins and less volatility in our combined NAST truckload and LTL volumes as compared to the Cass Freight Index. We have continued to reshape our portfolio by adapting our pricing to reflect the rising cost environment and participating to a greater extent in the spot market. The strong demand and tight carrier capacity conditions in 2021 resulted in our average truckload linehaul cost per mile, excluding fuel costs, increasing 30.5 percent. Our average truckload linehaul rate charged to our customers, excluding fuel surcharges, increased approximately 29.0 percent in 2021. In our global forwarding business, we continued to experience significant increases in purchased transportation costs for both ocean and air freight due to the disruption caused by port congestion in addition to the equipment and labor shortages impacting the global forwarding market. This along with increased volumes has resulted in strong growth in both total revenues and cost of transportation for our ocean and air freight services. Ocean volumes increased 17.0 percent in 2021 with strong growth in nearly all regions we serve, driven by higher award sizes from existing customers and new customer growth in addition to the adverse impact to 2020 results from factory closures during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic. Throughout 2021 and 2020, we have augmented our air freight capacity with charter flights due to the significant commercial capacity shortages in the market, which have resulted in larger than normal shipment sizes as compared to our pre-pandemic operations. On June 3, 2021, we acquired Combinex Holding B.V. (“Combinex”) to strengthen our European road transportation presence, for $14.7 million in cash. On March 2, 2020, we acquired Prime Distribution Services (“Prime Distribution” or “Prime”), a leading provider of retail consolidation services in North America, for $222.7 million in cash. The acquisition was effective as of February 29, 2020, and therefore the results of operations of Prime Distribution have been included as part of the NAST segment in our consolidated financial statements since March 1, 2020. 26 SELECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ITEMS The following summarizes select 2021 year-over-year operating comparisons to 2020: • Total revenues increased 42.5 percent to $23.1 billion, driven primarily by higher pricing and higher volume across most of our services. • Gross profits increased 30.7 percent to $3.1 billion. Adjusted gross profits increased 30.7 percent to $3.2 billion, primarily driven by higher adjusted gross profit per transaction and higher volume across most of our services. • Personnel expenses increased 24.2 percent to $1.5 billion, primarily due to higher incentive compensation costs and a 4.2 percent increase in average headcount, and also due to the benefit realized in 2020 from our short-term, pandemic-related cost reduction initiatives. • Selling, general, and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 6.1 percent to $526.4 million, primarily due to the increases in purchased services and warehouse expenses, partially offset by decreases in amortization and bad debt expenses and by an $11.5 million loss on the sale-leaseback of a company-owned data center in 2020. • Income from operations totaled $1.1 billion, up 60.7 percent from last year due to an increase in adjusted gross profits, partially offset by the increase in operating expenses. Adjusted operating margin of 34.3 percent increased 640 basis points. • Interest and other expenses totaled $59.8 million, which primarily consisted of $52.1 million of interest expense, which increased $3.0 million versus last year due to a higher average debt balance. The current year also included a $15.1 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses. These expenses were partially offset by a $2.9 million local government subsidy in Asia for achieving specified performance criteria that was almost entirely offset by a reduction in foreign tax credits within the provision for income taxes. • The effective tax rate for 2021 was 17.4 percent compared to 19.4 percent in 2020. The rate decrease was due primarily to a favorable mix of foreign earnings and an increased benefit related to U.S. tax credits and incentives. • Net income totaled $844.2 million, up 66.7 percent from a year ago. Diluted earnings per share increased 69.6 percent to $6.31. • Cash flow from operations decreased 81.0 percent to $95.0 million. 27 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes our results of operations (dollars in thousands, except per share data): ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources includes a comparison of the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, to the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. A similar discussion and analysis that compares the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, to the twelve months ended December 31, 2019, can be found in Item 7, “ Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, ” of our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 19, 2021. A reconciliation of our reportable segments to our consolidated results can be found in Note 9, Segment Reporting, in Part II, Financial Information of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Consolidated Results of Operations—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2020 Total revenues and related costs. Total transportation revenues and purchased transportation and related services increased significantly driven by higher pricing and volumes in most service lines, most notably ocean and truckload services. The higher pricing was driven by the continued supply chain disruptions impacting both the global forwarding and surface transportation market discussed above in the market and business trends sections. The prior year period was also impacted by the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in significant volatility to both pricing and volumes. Much of this volatility was the result of restrictions in place to control the outbreak, which resulted in the sharp decline in commercial air freight capacity and periods of significantly reduced ocean freight demand due to factory closures. This was followed by periods of rapid demand increases when production resumed and companies began to replenish low inventory levels amidst the market uncertainty and elevated demand for essential products. 28 Our sourcing total revenues and purchased products sourced for resale decreased due to lower pricing and costs per case, which was partially offset by higher case volume most notably in the foodservice industry, which was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Our transportation adjusted gross profit increased driven by increased pricing and volumes in nearly all service lines, most notably ocean and truckload services, resulting in higher adjusted gross profits per transaction. Our transportation adjusted gross profit margin decreased driven by the significant increase in the cost of purchased transportation and related services in nearly all service lines. The prior year period also included significant volatility in both volumes and the cost of purchased transportation due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We have continued to meet our customer commitments since the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has resulted in adjusted gross profit margin compression especially during periods of extreme volatility in the cost of capacity relative to our contractual customer pricing. Sourcing adjusted gross profits increased driven by an increase in case volume from sourcing managed procurement customers in the foodservice industry as the prior year period experienced a significant decrease in demand resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in case volume with retail customers. Operating expenses. Personnel expenses increased primarily due to incentive compensation increases reflecting the strong results in the current year, an increase in average headcount, and the impact of steps taken to reduce costs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year, including furloughs, reduced work hours, and the temporary suspension of the company match to retirement plans for U.S. and Canadian employees in addition to increased health insurance costs. Stock-based compensation expense recognized on performance-based equity awards granted prior to 2021 totaled $62.0 million in the current year compared to none in the prior year. There is no remaining stock-based compensation expense to recognize on our 2017 and 2018 performance-based equity awards while 20 percent remains on our 2019 and 2020 performance-based equity awards. Refer to Note 6, Capital Stock and Stock Award Plans, for further discussion related to our stock-based compensation plan. Other SG&A expenses increased due to increased purchased services and warehouse expenses, partially offset by decreases in amortization due to the completion of amortization related to intangible assets from a prior acquisition and bad debt expenses and the impact of an $11.5 million loss on the sale-leaseback of a company-owned data center in the prior year period. Interest and other expense. Interest and other expense of $59.8 million primarily consisted of $52.1 million of interest expense and a $15.1 million unfavorable impact of foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses in 2021. These expenses were partially offset by a $2.9 million local government subsidy in Asia for achieving specified performance criteria that was almost entirely offset by a reduction in foreign tax credits within the provision for income taxes. Interest expense increased driven by a higher average debt balance compared to the prior year period. The prior year period included a $3.3 million favorable impact of foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses. Provision for income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 17.4 percent in 2021 and 19.4 percent in 2020. The effective income tax rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate primarily due to the tax benefit from U.S. tax credits and incentives, and a lower tax rate on foreign earnings. These impacts were partially offset by state income taxes, net of federal benefits. The effective income tax rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate primarily due to the tax impact of share-based payment awards, including the tax benefit from the delivery of a one-time deferred stock award that was granted to our prior Chief Executive Officer in 2000 and excess foreign tax credits. These impacts were partially offset by state income taxes, net of federal benefits and foreign income taxes. 29 NAST Segment Results of Operations ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2020 Total revenues and related costs. NAST total revenues increased due to higher pricing in truckload and, to a lesser extent, higher pricing in LTL services in addition to volume increases in both LTL and truckload services. The increased pricing in truckload was driven by tight carrier capacity caused by driver availability challenges and the supply chain disruptions facing the industry as discussed above in the market and business trends sections. The prior year was adversely impacted by weakening demand during the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in industry volume decreases. Total purchased transportation and related services increased, driven by higher average truckload linehaul costs per mile in addition to higher purchased transportation costs per transaction in LTL services and volume increases in both LTL and truckload services. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. NAST adjusted gross profits increased, driven by increased adjusted gross profits per transaction due to the higher pricing and increased volume discussed above. Our average truckload linehaul rate per mile charged to our customers increased approximately 29.0 percent. Our truckload transportation costs, excluding fuel surcharges, increased approximately 30.5 percent. NAST LTL adjusted gross profits increased due to increased volumes and increased adjusted gross profits per transaction. NAST other adjusted gross profits decreased slightly as lower adjusted gross profits per transaction and lower volume in intermodal were partially offset by incremental warehousing services related to the acquisition of Prime Distribution. Operating expenses. NAST personnel expense increased primarily due to incentive compensation increases reflecting the strong results for the year and the impact of steps taken to reduce costs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year, including furloughs, reduced work hours, and the temporary suspension of the company match to retirement plans for U.S. and Canadian employees . NAST SG&A expenses increased, driven by increased investments in technology, warehouse expenses, and purchased services, partially offset by lower credit losses. The operating expenses of NAST and all other segments include allocated corporate expenses. Allocated personnel expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation allocated based upon segment participation levels in our equity plans. Remaining corporate allocations, including corporate functions and technology related expenses, are primarily included within each segment’s other selling and administrative expenses and allocated based upon relevant segment operating metrics. 30 Global Forwarding Segment Results of Operations ________________________________ (1) In 2021, reported air volumes represent metric tons shipped. Previously reported statistics were based on transactional volumes and have been restated to conform with the current period presentation. (2) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2020 Total revenues and related costs. Total revenues and purchased transportation and related services increased due to higher pricing in our ocean services and, to a lesser extent, higher pricing in our air freight services, in addition to volume increases in both ocean and air services. The higher ocean and air freight pricing was driven by the unprecedented supply chain disruptions impacting the global forwarding market combined with strong demand as discussed in the market and business trends sections. Increased air freight volumes were driven by ocean freight conversion resulting from the significant disruptions experienced in the industry and the continued increase in charter flights and larger than normal shipment sizes as traditional air freight capacity remains strained by a reduction of commercial flights. The first half of 2020 was also severely impacted by reduced demand and production due to the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, which led to significant volume declines in all services in the prior year. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Ocean and air freight adjusted gross profits increased driven by higher pricing resulting in higher adjusted gross profits per transaction, in addition to increased volumes. Customs adjusted gross profits increased, driven by increased volumes. Operating expenses. Personnel expenses increased primarily due to an increase in average headcount and incentive compensation reflecting the strong results in the year. The prior year included the impact of steps taken to reduce costs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including furloughs and reduced work hours. SG&A expenses increased driven by increased investments in technology and increased purchased services, partially offset by a reduction of amortization expense due to the completion of amortization related to intangible assets from a prior acquisition. 31 All Other and Corporate Segment Results of Operations All Other and Corporate includes our Robinson Fresh and Managed Services segment, as well as Other Surface Transportation outside of North America and other miscellaneous revenues and unallocated corporate expenses. ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2020 Total revenues and related costs. Total revenues and related costs increased driven by higher truckload pricing and volumes in Other Surface Transportation, including a 6.0 percentage point increase from the acquisition of Combinex. Robinson Fresh total revenues and related costs decreased due to lower pricing and costs per case, which was partially offset by higher case volume most notably in the foodservice industry, which was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Robinson Fresh adjusted gross profits increased, driven by an increase in case volume from sourcing managed procurement customers in the food service industry as the prior year period experienced a significant decrease in demand resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in case volume with retail customers. Managed Services adjusted gross profits increased, driven by increased transaction volumes resulting from an increase in freight under management. Other Surface Transportation adjusted gross profits increased primarily due to a 6.5 percentage point increase from the acquisition of Combinex and a modest increase in truckload volumes. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We have historically generated substantial cash from operations, which has enabled us to fund our organic growth while paying cash dividends and repurchasing stock. In addition, we maintain the following debt facilities as described in Note 4, Financing Arrangements (dollars in thousands): ________________________________ (1) Net of unamortized discounts and issuance costs. (2) On February 1, 2022, we amended the Receivables Securitization Facility primarily to increase the total availability from $300 million to $500 million. We expect to use our current debt facilities and potentially other indebtedness incurred in the future to assist us in continuing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, possible acquisitions, dividends, and share repurchases. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $257.4 million as of December 31, 2021, and $243.8 million as of December 31, 2020. Cash and cash equivalents held outside the United States totaled $217.1 million as of December 31, 2021, and $230.9 million as of 32 December 31, 2020. Working capital increased from $1.10 billion at December 31, 2020, to $1.48 billion at December 31, 2021. We prioritize our investments to grow the business, as we require some working capital and a relatively small amount of capital expenditures to grow. We are continually looking for acquisitions, but those acquisitions must fit our culture and enhance our growth opportunities. The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents (dollars in thousands): Cash flow from operating activities. The significant decrease in cash flow from operating activities in 2021 from 2020 was due to unfavorable changes in working capital. These changes in working capital were primarily related to a sequential increase in accounts receivable and contract assets, partially offset by a related increase in accounts payable and accrued transportation expense. Both increases were driven by a significant increase in pricing for most of our transportation services in addition to increased volumes in nearly all services during 2021. The increase in accounts receivable was also impacted by a change in business mix from the significant growth of our global forwarding business where our days sales outstanding ratio is approximately double that of our NAST business. Despite the increase in accounts receivable, we are not experiencing a deterioration in the quality of our accounts receivable balance. Additionally, since the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been closely monitoring credit and collections activities to minimize risk as well as working with our customers to facilitate the movement of goods across their supply chains while also ensuring timely payment. Cash used for investing activities. Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures consisted primarily of investments in hardware and software, which are intended to increase employee productivity, automate interactions with our customers and contracted carriers, and improve our internal workflows to help expand our adjusted operating margins and grow the business. During 2019, we sold a facility we owned in Chicago, Illinois, for approximately $17.0 million. In 2021, we used $14.7 million for the acquisition of Combinex. In 2020, we used $222.7 million for the acquisition of Prime. In 2019, we used $45.0 million for the acquisition of The Space Cargo Group and $14.2 million for the acquisition of Dema Service S.p.A. We anticipate capital expenditures in 2022 to be approximately $90 million to $100 million. Cash used for financing activities. We had net borrowings on debt of $822.7 million in 2021 and net repayments of $143.0 million in 2020. The 2021 net borrowings were primarily to provide cash for operations, as our working capital needs continued to increase throughout the year as mentioned above. The 2020 net repayments were primarily to reduce the outstanding balance of the receivables securitization facility. This receivables securitization facility expired in December 2020 and was not renewed; however, we entered into a new receivables securitization facility in November 2021. There was a $525 million outstanding balance on our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”) as of December 31, 2021, compared to no outstanding balance as of December 31, 2020 . As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with 33 all of the covenants under the Credit Agreement, the Accounts Receivable Securitization, note purchase agreement, and senior unsecured notes. The increase in cash dividends paid was the result of our fourth quarter 2020 dividend being paid on January 4, 2021. Near the end of the first quarter of 2020, we temporarily suspended our share repurchase activity as we assessed the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. We resumed our share repurchase activity in the fourth quarter of 2020 and throughout 2021, which resulted in the increase in share repurchases in 2021. In December 2021, the Board of Directors increased the number of shares authorized to be repurchased by 20,000,000 shares. As of December 31, 2021, there were 21,635,388 shares remaining for future repurchases. The number of shares we repurchase, if any, during future periods will vary based on our cash position, potential alternative uses of our cash, and market conditions. We may seek to retire or purchase our outstanding Senior Notes through open market cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. Although there continues to be uncertainty related to the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future results, we believe that, assuming no change in our current business plan, our available cash, together with expected future cash generated from operations, the amount available under our credit facilities, and credit available in the market, will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditures, and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. We also believe we could obtain funds under lines of credit or other forms of indebtedness on short notice, if needed. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and the related disclosures. Because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We consider the following items in our consolidated financial statements to require significant estimation or judgment. REVENUE RECOGNITION. At contract inception, we assess the goods and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify our performance obligations to provide distinct goods and services to our customers. Our transportation and logistics service arrangements often require management to use judgment and make estimates that impact the amounts and timing of revenue recognition. Transportation and Logistics Services - As a global logistics provider, our primary performance obligation under our customer contracts is to utilize our relationships with a wide variety of transportation companies to efficiently and cost-effectively transport our customers’ freight. Revenue is recognized for these performance obligations as they are satisfied over the contract term, which generally represents the transit period. The transit period can vary based upon the method of transport, generally a number of days for over the road, rail, and air transportation, or several weeks in the case of an ocean shipment. Recognizing revenue for contracts where the transit period is partially complete or completed and not yet invoiced at period end requires management to make judgments that affect the amounts and timing of revenue recognized at period end. At December 31, 2021, we recorded revenue of $453.7 million for services we have provided while a shipment was still in-transit but for which we had not yet completed our performance obligation or had not yet invoiced our customer compared to $197.2 million at December 31, 2020. We utilize our historical knowledge of shipping lanes and estimated transit times to determine the transit period in cases where our customers’ freight has not reached its intended destination. In addition, we analyze contract data for the first few days following the reporting date combined with our historical experience of trends related to partially completed contracts as of the reporting date to determine our right to consideration for the services we have provided where the transit period is partially complete or completed and not yet invoiced at period end. Differences in contract data for the first few days following the reporting date compared with our historical experience or disruptions such as weather events, port congestion, or other delays could cause the actual amount of revenue earned at period end to differ from these estimates. Total revenues represent the total dollar value of revenue recognized from contracts with customers for the goods and services we provide. Substantially all of our revenue is attributable to contracts with our customers. Most transactions in our transportation and sourcing businesses are recorded at the gross amount we charge our customers for the service we provide and goods we sell. In these transactions, we are primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service to our customer and we have discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. Additionally, in our sourcing business, in some cases we take inventory risk before the specified good has been transferred to our customer. 34 Customs brokerage, managed services, freight forwarding, and sourcing managed procurement transactions are recorded at the net amount we charge our customers for the service we provide because many of the factors stated above are not present. See also Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , for further information regarding our revenue recognition policies. GOODWILL. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquired businesses over the net of the fair value of identifiable tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets purchased and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually on November 30, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units is less than their respective carrying value (“Step Zero Analysis”). If the Step Zero Analysis indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units is less than their respective carrying value, an additional impairment assessment is performed (“Step One Analysis”). As part of our Step Zero Analysis we determined that the more likely than not criteria had not been met, and therefore a Step One Analysis was not required. When we perform a Step One Analysis, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. In the Step One Analysis, the fair value of each reporting unit is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis and market approach. Projecting discounted future cash flows requires us to make significant estimates regarding future revenues and expenses, projected capital expenditures, changes in working capital, and the appropriate discount rate. Use of the market approach consists of comparisons to comparable publicly-traded companies that are similar in size and industry. Actual results may differ from those used in our valuations when a Step One Analysis is performed. INCOME TAX RESERVES. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged and that we may or may not prevail in full or in part. Under U.S. GAAP, if we determine that a tax position, more likely than not, will be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon resolution. We presume that all tax positions will be examined by a taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. We regularly monitor our tax positions and tax liabilities. We reevaluate the technical merits of our tax positions and recognize an uncertain tax benefit, or derecognize a previously recorded tax benefit, when there is (i) a completion of a tax audit, (ii) effective settlement of an issue, (iii) litigation of the issue, including appeals, (iv) a change in applicable tax law including a tax case or legislative guidance, or (v) the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Significant judgment is required in accounting for tax reserves. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, consolidated earnings, financial position and/or cash flows. Uncertain income tax positions are included in “Accrued income taxes” or “Noncurrent income taxes payable” in the consolidated balance sheet. 35 DISCLOSURES ABOUT CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL CONTINGENCIES The following table aggregates all contractual commitments and commercial obligations, due by period, that affect our financial condition and liquidity position as of December 31, 2021 (dollars in thousands): ________________________________ (1) Amounts payable relate to the semi-annual interest due on the senior and long-term notes and the principal amount at maturity. (2) We maintain operating leases for office space, warehouses, office equipment, and a small number of intermodal containers. See Note 11, Leases , for further information. (3) Purchase obligations include agreements for services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. As of December 31, 2021, such obligations primarily include ocean and air freight capacity, telecommunications services, maintenance contracts, and information technology related capacity. In some instances our contractual commitments may be usage based or require estimates as to the timing of cash settlement. We have no financing lease obligations. Long-term liabilities consist primarily of noncurrent taxes payable and long-term notes payable. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the amounts or timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2021, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, $42.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 5, Income Taxes , to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. As of December 31, 2021, we do not have significant off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.