********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following are material factors that could affect our financial performance and could cause actual results for future periods to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause actual results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements, including those made in oral presentations such as telephone conferences and webcasts open to the public. Business environment and competition risk factors Economic recessions could have a significant, adverse impact on our business. The transportation industry historically has experienced cyclical fluctuations in financial results due to economic recessions, downturns in business cycles of our customers, interest rate fluctuations, currency fluctuations, and other economic factors beyond our control. Deterioration in the economic environment subjects our business to various risks, which may have a material and adverse impact on our operating results and cause us to not reach our long-term growth goals: • Decrease in volumes: A reduction in overall freight volumes in the marketplace may reduce our opportunities for growth. A significant portion of our freight is comprised of transactional or spot market opportunities. The market may be impacted by supply chain disruptions or overall economic conditions. In addition, if a downturn in our customers’ business cycles causes a reduction in the volumes of freight shipped by those customers, particularly among certain national retailers or in the food, beverage, retail, manufacturing, housing, paper, ecommerce, or printing industries, our operating results could be adversely affected. During 2022 and continuing in 2023, we have experienced a decline in volumes as shippers struggle with elevated inventory levels and consumer demand has been negatively impacted by inflation and macroeconomic uncertainty. These volume declines have also driven declining freight rates in certain transportation modes and trade lanes. • Credit risk and working capital: Some of our customers may face economic difficulties and may not be able to pay us, and some may go out of business. In addition, some customers may not pay us as quickly as they have in the past, which may cause our working capital needs to increase. • Transportation provider failures: A significant number of our contracted transportation providers may go out of business and we may be unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers. • Expense management: We may not be able to appropriately adjust our expenses to changing market demands. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it may be more difficult to match our staffing levels to our business needs. In addition, we have other expenses that are fixed for a period of time, and we may not be able to adequately adjust them in a period of rapid change in market demand. Higher carrier prices may result in decreased adjusted gross profit margin and increases in working capital. Carriers can be expected to charge higher prices if market conditions warrant or to cover higher operating expenses. Our adjusted gross profits and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to increase our pricing to our customers. Increased demand for over the road transportation services and changes in regulations may reduce available capacity and increase motor carrier pricing. In some instances where we have entered into contract freight rates with customers, in the event market conditions change and those contracted rates are below market rates, we may be required to provide transportation services at a loss. As our volumes increase or we increase freight rates charged to our customers, the resulting increase in revenues may increase our working capital needs due to our business model, which generally has a higher length of days sales outstanding than days payables outstanding. Changing fuel costs and interruptions of fuel supplies may have an impact on our adjusted gross profit margin. In our truckload transportation business, fluctuating fuel prices may result in a decreased adjusted gross profit margin. While our different pricing arrangements with customers and contracted motor carriers make it very difficult to measure the precise impact, we believe that fuel costs essentially act as a pass-through cost to our truckload business. In times of fluctuating fuel prices, our adjusted gross profit margin may also fluctuate. Adjusted gross profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as adjusted gross profits divided by total revenues. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 15 Our dependence on third parties to provide equipment and services may impact the delivery and quality of our transportation and logistics services. We do not employ the people directly involved in delivering our customers’ freight. We depend on independent third parties to provide truck, rail, ocean, and air services and to report certain events to us, including but not limited to, shipment status information and freight claims. These independent third parties may not fulfill their obligations to us, or our relationship with these parties may change, which may prevent us from meeting our commitments to our customers. This reliance also could cause delays in reporting certain events, including recognizing claims. In addition, if we are unable to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services from third parties to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. Many of these risks are beyond our control, including: • equipment and driver shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among contracted motor carriers; • changes in regulations impacting transportation; • disruption in the supply or cost of fuel; • reduction or deterioration in rail service; • the introduction of alternative means of transporting freight; and • unanticipated changes in freight markets. We face substantial industry competition. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense and broad-based. We compete against traditional and non-traditional logistics companies, including transportation providers that own equipment, third-party freight brokers, technology matching services, internet freight brokers, carriers offering logistics services, and on-demand transportation service providers. We also compete against carriers’ internal sales forces. In addition, customers can bring in-house some of the services we provide to them. We often buy and sell transportation services from and to many of our competitors. Increased competition could reduce our market opportunity and create downward pressure on freight rates, and continued rate pressure may adversely affect our adjusted gross profits and income from operations. In some instances where we have entered into contract freight rates with customers, in the event market conditions change and those contracted rates are below market rates, we may be required to provide transportation services at a loss. Our sourcing business is dependent upon the supply and price of fresh produce. The supply and price of fresh produce is affected by weather and growing conditions, including but not limited to, flood, drought, freeze, insects, disease, and other conditions over which we have no control. Commodity prices can be affected by shortages or overproduction and are often highly volatile. If we are unable to secure fresh produce to meet our commitments to our customers, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected, and our customers could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. To assure access to certain commodities, we occasionally make monetary advances to growers to finance their operations. Repayment of these advances is dependent upon the growers’ ability to grow and harvest marketable crops. Our earnings may be affected by seasonal changes or significant disruptions in the transportation industry. Results of operations for our industry generally show a seasonal pattern as customers reduce shipments during and after the winter holiday season. We believe this historical pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors, including national holidays, weather patterns, consumer demand, economic conditions, and other similar and subtle forces. Although seasonal changes in the transportation industry have not had a significant impact on our cash flow or results of operations, we expect this trend to continue and we cannot guarantee that it will not adversely impact us in the future. The transportation industry may also be significantly impacted by disruptions such as port congestion and the availability of transportation equipment, as well as factors such as labor shortages, fuel prices, shifts in consumer demand toward more locally sourced products, and regulatory changes. These disruptions may impact the growth rates within the global logistics industry and our ability to provide transportation services for our customers, each of which may adversely impact our results of operations and operating cash flows. We may be unable to identify or complete suitable acquisitions and investments. We may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, products, services, or technologies. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisitions or investment candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we cannot guarantee that we will make acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. The timing and number of acquisitions we pursue may also cause volatility in our financial results. In addition, we may incur debt or be required to issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments. The issuance of any equity securities could be dilutive to our stockholders. 16 Company risk factors We rely on technology to operate our business. We have internally developed the majority of our operating systems and also rely on technology provided by third parties. Our continued success is dependent on our systems continuing to operate and to meet the changing needs of our customers and users. The continued automation of existing processes and usage of third-party technology and cloud network capacity will require adaptation and adjustments that may increase our exposure to cybersecurity risks and system availability reliance. We rely on our technology staff and third-party vendors to successfully implement changes to, and to maintain, our operating systems in an efficient manner. If we fail to maintain, protect, and enhance our operating systems, we may be at a competitive disadvantage and lose customers. As demonstrated by recent material and high-profile data security breaches, computer malware, viruses, computer hacking, and phishing attacks have become more prevalent, have occurred on our operating systems in the past, and may occur on our operating systems in the future. Previous attacks on our operating systems have not had a material financial impact on our operations, but we cannot guarantee that future attacks will have little to no impact on our business. Furthermore, given the interconnected nature of the supply chain and our significant presence in the industry, we believe that we may be an attractive target for such attacks. The insurance coverage we currently have in place may not apply to a particular loss or it may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities to which we may be subject. A loss for which we are not adequately insured could materially affect our financial results. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack, a significant impact on the performance, reliability, security, and availability of our operating systems and technical infrastructure to the satisfaction of our users may harm our reputation, impair our ability to retain existing customers or attract new customers, and expose us to legal claims and government action, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. Our international operations subject us to operational and financial risks. We provide services within and between foreign countries on an increasing basis. Our business outside of the U.S. is subject to various risks, including: • changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements, and taxations; • difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations and agents; • limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; • different liability standards; • intellectual property laws of countries that do not protect our rights in our intellectual property, including but not limited to, our proprietary information systems, to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.; and • issues related to non-compliance with laws, rules, and regulations in the countries in which we operate including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar regulations. Failure to comply could result in reputational harm, substantial penalties, and operational restrictions. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. As we continue to expand our business internationally, we expose the company to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations, as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in currency exchange gains or losses or could affect the book value of our assets and liabilities. Furthermore, we may experience unanticipated changes to our income tax liabilities resulting from changes in geographical income mix and changing international tax legislation. We have limited control over these risks, and if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects. Our ability to appropriately staff and retain employees is important to our business model. Our continued success depends upon our ability to attract and retain motivated logistics professionals. In order to maintain high variability in our business model, it is necessary to adjust staffing levels to changing market demands. In periods of rapid change, it may be more difficult to match our staffing level to our business needs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel. In addition, macroeconomic factors impacting the labor market may result in higher costs to hire and retain qualified personnel. Because of our comprehensive employee training program, our employees are attractive targets for new and existing competitors. Continued success depends in large part on our ability to develop successful employees into managers. 17 We derive a significant portion of our total revenues and adjusted gross profits from our largest customers. During 2022, our top 100 customers based on total revenue comprised approximately 35 percent of our consolidated total revenues and our top 100 customers based on adjusted gross profits comprised approximately 29 percent of consolidated adjusted gross profit. Our largest customer comprised approximately two percent of our consolidated total revenues. The sudden loss of major customers could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may be subject to the negative impacts of climate change, which could adversely impact our business and financial results. The potential impacts of climate change may subject us to various risks, including: • physical risks such as extreme weather conditions or other types of weather events, which could disrupt our operations; • compliance costs and transition risks such as increased regulation on us and on our contracted transportation providers; and • reputational and strategic risks due to shifts in customer demands such as customers requiring more fuel efficient transportation, autonomous transportation modes, or increased transparency to carbon emissions in their supply chains. Such impacts may disrupt our operations by adversely affecting our ability to procure services that meet regulatory or customer requirements and may negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may have difficulties integrating acquired companies. For acquisitions, success depends upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. If we complete a large acquisition or multiple acquisitions within a short period of time, we may experience heightened difficulties in integrating the acquired companies. We are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage. If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our growth and profitability may not continue, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. There can be no assurance that our long-term growth targets will be achieved or that we will be able to effectively adapt our management, administrative, and operational systems to respond to any future growth. Future changes in and expansion of our business, or changes in economic or political conditions, could adversely affect our operating margins. Slower or less profitable growth or losses could adversely affect our stock price. We are in the process of searching for a new Chief Executive Officer and need to retain key management personnel. Our Board of Directors is conducting a search for a new Chief Executive Officer. In January 2023, we announced that the Board of Directors was conducting a search for a successor for our Chief Executive Officer whose employment terminated January 1, 2023, and the Board appointed a member of the Board to serve as Interim Chief Executive Officer. We must successfully identify and integrate a new Chief Executive Officer to achieve our strategic and operating objectives, and the timeline for completing this process is currently unknown. Transitions in senior executive leadership can adversely affect relationships with our clients, suppliers, and employees; make it difficult to attract and retain talent; and pose challenges in planning for the future. We must also retain other key management personnel to facilitate a smooth transition. Failure to attract, retain and incentivize key management personnel could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Significant adverse economic and industry conditions could negatively affect our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, possible acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases, or other investments. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations or refinance these debt obligations with commercially acceptable terms, it may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. We may be unable to comply with the various restrictions and covenants under our indebtedness, which may result in default and our outstanding indebtedness may become immediately due and payable and adversely impact our financial position. We may be adversely impacted by changing interest rates. We are exposed to changes in interest rates, primarily on our short-term debt that carries floating interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, economic conditions, and other factors beyond our control. A significant increase in interest rates could adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. 18 Governmental, regulatory, and legal risk factors Changes to income tax regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate may increase our tax liability. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we operate. Changes to income tax laws and regulations in any of the jurisdictions where we operate could significantly increase our effective tax rate and reduce our operating cash flows. We are subject to claims arising from our transportation operations. We use the services of thousands of third party transportation companies in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, the drivers employed and engaged by the motor carriers with which we contract are involved in accidents, which may result in serious personal injuries. The resulting types and/or amounts of damages may be excluded by or exceed the amount of insurance coverage maintained by the contracted motor carrier. We contractually require all motor carriers we work with to carry at least $750,000 in automobile liability insurance. We also require all contracted motor carriers to maintain workers compensation and other insurance coverage as required by law. Most contracted motor carriers have insurance exceeding these minimum requirements, as well as cargo insurance in varying policy amounts. Railroads, which are generally self-insured, provide limited common carrier cargo loss or damage liability protection, generally up to $250,000 per shipme nt. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are employees, owner-operators, or independent contractors working for the contracted motor carriers, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for their actions or for our actions in retaining them. Cl aims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance at all. In addition, we are insured up to $2.5 million per incident within our automobile liability policy. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, liability claims, workers’ compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims could materially and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could reduce our profitability. Our involvement in the transportation of certain goods, including but not limited to, hazardous materials, could also increase our exposure in the event one of our contracted motor carriers is involved in an accident resulting in injuries or contamination. In North America, as a property freight broker, we are not legally liable for loss or damage to our customers' cargo. In our customer contracts, we may agree to assume cargo liability up to a stated maximum. We typically do not assume cargo liability to our customers above minimum industry standards in our international freight forwarding, ocean transportation, or air freight businesses on international or domestic air shipments. Although we are not legally liable for loss or damage to our customers' cargo, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for cargo losses. We maintain a broad cargo liability insurance policy to help protect us against catastrophic losses that may not be recovered from the responsible contracted carrier. We also carry various liability insurance policies, including automobile and general liability, with a $155 million umbrella where we carry retentions between $0.5 million and $7.5 million. Buying and reselling fresh produce exposes us to possible product liability. Agricultural chemicals used on fresh produce are subject to various approvals, and the commodities themselves are subject to regulations on cleanliness and contamination. Product recalls in the produce industry have been caused by concern about particular chemicals and alleged contamination, often leading to lawsuits brought by consumers of allegedly affected produce. We may face claims for a variety of damages arising from the sale of produce, which may include potentially uninsured consequential damages. While we are insured for up to $155 million for product liability claims subject to a $500,000 per incident deductible, settlement of class action claims is often costly, and we cannot guarantee that our coverage will be adequate or that it will continue to be available. If we have to recall produce, we may be required to bear the cost of repurchasing, transporting, and destroying any allegedly contaminated product, as well as associated consequential damages. We carry product recall and contamination insurance coverage of $30 million. A loss for which we are not adequately insured could materially affect our financial results. The coverage we currently have in place may not apply to a particular loss, or it may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities to which we may be subject. This policy has a retention of $3.5 million per incident. Any recall or allegation of contamination could affect our reputation, particularly of our proprietary and/or licensed branded produce programs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Loss due to spoilage (including the need for disposal) is also a routine part of the sourcing business. Any material litigation related to the above types of claims or claims arising from our transportation operations may require significant management time and could cause us to incur substantial legal and related costs, which may include damages that could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Our business depends upon compliance with numerous government regulations. Our operations may be regulated and licensed by various federal, state, and local transportation agencies in the U.S. and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate. 19 We are subject to licensing and regulation as a property freight broker and are licensed by the DOT to arrange for the transportation of property by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including certain surety bonding requirements. For purposes of our Global Forwarding services, we are also subject to regulation by the FMC as an ocean freight forwarder and NVOCC, and we maintain separate bonds and licenses for each. We operate as a Department of Homeland Security certified IAC, providing air freight services, subject to commercial standards set forth by the IATA and federal regulations issued by the TSA. We provide customs brokerage services as a customs broker under a license issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other authoritative governmental agencies. We also have and maintain other licenses as required by law. We source fresh produce under a license issued by the USDA as required by PACA. We are also subject to various regulations and requirements promulgated by other international, domestic, state, and local agencies and port authorities. Our failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to entities holding these licenses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Legislative or regulatory changes can affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. As part of our logistics services, we operate owned or leased warehouse facilities. Our operations at these facilities include both warehousing and distribution services, and we are subject to various federal, state, and international environmental, work safety, and hazardous materials regulations. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been or will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. No assurances can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers in the form of rate increases or surcharges, and our operations and profitability may be materially and adversely affected as a result. Department of Homeland Security regulations applicable to our customers that import goods into the U.S. and our contracted ocean carriers can impact our ability to provide and/or receive services with and from these parties. Enforcement measures related to violations of these regulations can slow and/or prevent the delivery of shipments, which may negatively impact our operations. We cannot predict the impact that future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating permits and licenses. Our contracted transportation providers are subject to increasingly stringent laws protecting the environment, including transitional risks relating to climate change, which could directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business. Future and existing environmental regulatory requirements, including evolving transportation technology, in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating expenses, which in turn could increase our purchased transportation costs. We may also incur expenses as a result of regulators requiring additional climate-related disclosures regarding our contracted transportation providers that may be labor-intensive to report on. Until the timing, scope, and extent of such possible regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our company, but if we are unable to pass such costs along to our customers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Even without any new legislation or regulation, increased public concern regarding greenhouse gas emissions by transportation carriers could harm the reputations of companies operating in the transportation logistics industries and shift consumer demand toward more locally sourced products and away from our services. General risk factors We are subject to negative impacts of changes in political and governmental conditions. Our operations are subject to the influences of significant political, governmental, and similar changes and our ability to respond to them, including: • changes in political conditions and in governmental policies; • changes in and compliance with international and domestic laws and regulations; and • wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts. 20 We may be subject to negative impacts of catastrophic events. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, heightened security measures, actual or threatened terrorist attack, strike, civil unrest, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in providing services or performing other critical functions. We are particularly vulnerable to these risks given the broad and global scope of our operations. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and adversely impact our operating results. In addition, the company is continuously monitoring the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has already caused a significant disruption to global financial markets and supply chains and has resulted in numerous travel restrictions and the shutdown of certain businesses across the globe since its inception. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have experienced periods of significant changes including volatility in demand, declines in certain industries and regions, volatile pricing, and negative impacts to carrier capacity. The extent to which the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic impacts our operating results will depend on future developments, which remain highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of outbreaks, the emergence of new COVID-19 variants, and the effectiveness of local, state, federal, and international actions that are being taken to contain and treat COVID-19. There continues to be uncertainty around the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its broader impact on the economy, and therefore, the effects it will have on our operations and financial results remain uncertain for 2023. If economic or market conditions in key global markets deteriorate, it may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations, and we may experience material adverse effects on our financial positions.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

OVERVIEW C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“C.H. Robinson,” “the company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is one of the largest global logistics companies in the world, with consolidated total revenues of $24.7 billion in 2022. We bring together customers, carriers, and suppliers to connect and grow supply chains. We are grounded in our customer promise to use our technology, which is built by and for supply chain experts and powered by our information advantage, to deliver smarter solutions. These global solutions, combined with the expertise of our people, deliver value–from improved cost reductions and reliability to sustainability and visibility–that our customers and carriers can rely on. Our adjusted gross profits and adjusted gross profit margin are non-GAAP financial measures. Adjusted gross profits is calculated as gross profit excluding amortization of internally developed software utilized to directly serve our customers and contracted carriers. Adjusted gross profit margin is calculated as adjusted gross profits divided by total revenues. We believe adjusted gross profits and adjusted gross profit margin are useful measures of our ability to source, add value, and sell services and products that are provided by third parties, and we consider adjusted gross profits to be a primary performance measurement. Accordingly, the discussion of our results of operations often focuses on the changes in our adjusted gross profits and adjusted gross profit margin. The reconciliation of gross profit to adjusted gross profits and gross profit margin to adjusted gross profit margin is presented below (dollars in thousands): Our adjusted operating margin is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as operating income divided by adjusted gross profit. We believe adjusted operating margin is a useful measure of our profitability in comparison to our adjusted gross profit, which we consider a primary performance metric as discussed above. The reconciliation of operating margin to adjusted operating margin is presented below (dollars in thousands) : 24 MARKET TRENDS The cost of purchased transportation in the North American surface transportation market declined significantly over the course of 2022 as excess carrier capacity combined with slowing demand led to softening market conditions. This compared to extremely tight market conditions in 2021 as strong demand combined with challenges due to driver availability and supply chain disruptions drove purchased transportation costs to historic levels. Many of these challenges improved over the course of 2022, allowing routing guides to perform more efficiently, which resulted in a comparatively soft market versus 2021. Industry freight volumes, as measured by the Cass Freight Index, were flat in 2022, compared to a 13 percent increase in 2021. One of the metrics we use to measure market conditions is the truckload routing guide depth from our Managed Services business. Routing guide depth represents the average number of carriers contacted prior to acceptance when procuring a transportation provider. The average routing guide depth at the end of 2022 declined to 1.2, representing that on average, the first carrier in a shipper's routing guide was executing the shipment in most cases. This average routing guide penetration is reflective of a softening freight market compared to the 1.7 average at the end of 2021. The cost of purchased transportation fell significantly in the global forwarding market in the second half of 2022 as global demand slowed in most trade lanes. The peak shipping season historically experienced in the second half of each year, which would typically drive elevated rates and volumes, remained uncharacteristically soft. Shippers in the U.S. and Europe continue to struggle with elevated inventory levels as consumer demand has been negatively impacted by inflation and macroeconomic uncertainty. In an effort to adapt to this slowing demand, steamship lines continue to rationalize services by reducing capacity where possible with blank sailings and slow steaming. All of these factors have allowed port congestion to ease in many parts of the world. As with the North American surface transportation market, this compared to extremely tight market conditions in 2021 as strong demand combined with supply chain disruptions caused by port congestion along with equipment and labor shortages drove purchased transportation to historic levels in 2021 and the first half of 2022. The slowdown of global demand has also had a significant impact on the air freight market. Air freight pricing and volumes have significantly declined driven by shippers maintaining higher inventory levels, declining consumer demand, and improving ocean schedule reliability eliminating ocean freight to air freight conversions. Air freight capacity continues to improve and drive rates lower in many trade lanes due to increased belly capacity as commercial flights become more frequent after being significantly reduced during the COVID-19 pandemic. BUSINESS TRENDS Our 2022 surface transportation results benefited from the declining cost of purchased transportation over the course of the year, as periods where the cost of purchased transportation declines often result in improved adjusted gross profits per shipment in our portfolio. Industry freight volumes as measured by the Cass Freight Index were flat in 2022 compared to the prior year. Our combined NAST truckload and less than truckload (“LTL”) volume decreased 1.0 percent in 2022 compared to the prior year. As a result of the softening market conditions, our contractual rates negotiated in prior quarters contributed to an increase in our adjusted gross profit per shipment and reduced the percentage of shipments with negative adjusted gross profit margins. Our average truckload linehaul cost per mile, excluding fuel surcharges, decreased approximately 7.5 percent during 2022. Our average truckload linehaul rate charged to our customers, excluding fuel surcharges, decreased approximately 4.0 percent during 2022. Our 2022 Global Forwarding results were largely consistent with the trends discussed above in the market trends section. We experienced elevated purchased transportation costs and volume growth for ocean freight in the first half of 2022 and saw those purchased transportation costs and volumes rapidly decline in the second half of 2022. Our total ocean freight volumes decreased 0.5 percent for the full year of 2022. Air freight tonnage decreased 9.0 percent as we experienced more customers willing to accept longer transit times in the ocean freight market, which was also aided by the improved schedule reliability for ocean freight. 25 SELECTED OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT ITEMS The following summarizes select 2022 year-over-year operating comparisons to 2021: • Total revenues increased 6.9 percent to $24.7 billion, driven primarily by higher pricing in truckload, LTL, and ocean services. • Gross profits increased 13.9 percent to $3.6 billion. Adjusted gross profits increased 14.0 percent to $3.6 billion, primarily driven by higher adjusted gross profit per transaction in truckload and LTL services. • Personnel expenses increased 11.6 percent to $1.7 billion, primarily due to 11.7 percent increase in average employee headcount. • Selling, general, and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased 14.6 percent to $603.4 million, primarily due to increases in purchased and contracted services, legal settlements, travel expenses, and an impairment of internally developed software, partially offset by a $25.3 million gain on the sale-leaseback of our Kansas City regional center and a decrease in credit losses. • Income from operations totaled $1.3 billion, up 17.1 percent from last year, primarily due to an increase in adjusted gross profits, partially offset by the increase in operating expenses. Adjusted operating margin of 35.3 percent increased 100 basis points. • Interest and other expenses, net totaled $100.0 million, which primarily consisted of $77.1 million of interest expense, which increased $25.0 million versus last year due to a higher average debt balance. The current year also included a $23.5 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses, which increased $8.4 million versus last year primarily due to foreign currency revaluation on intercompany assets and liabilities denominated in U.S. Dollars in countries where the U.S. Dollar is not the functional currency. • The effective tax rate for 2022 was 19.4 percent compared to 17.4 percent in 2021. The lower rate in the year-ago period was due primarily to a favorable mix of foreign earnings and an increased benefit related to U.S. tax credits and incentives. • Net income totaled $940.5 million, up 11.4 percent from a year ago. Diluted earnings per share increased 17.3 percent to $7.40. • Cash flow from operations increased significantly to $1.7 billion. 26 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes our results of operations (dollars in thousands, except per share data): ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. The following discussion and analysis of our Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources includes a comparison of the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, to the twelve months ended December 31, 2021. A similar discussion and analysis that compares the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, to the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, can be found in Item 7, “ Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, ” of our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022. A reconciliation of our reportable segments to our consolidated results can be found in Note 9, Segment Reporting, in Part II, Financial Information of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Consolidated Results of Operations—Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 Total revenues and direct costs. Total transportation revenues and direct costs increased driven by higher pricing and freight costs in nearly all service lines, most notably truckload, LTL, and ocean freight services. These increases were partially offset by volume declines in most of our service lines. The cost of purchased transportation remained historically elevated in the first half of 2022 as the industry continued to struggle with elevated inventory levels and supply chain disruptions due to port congestion and driver and equipment shortages. As global demand began to slow in the middle of 2022, the cost of purchased transportation began to decline, allowing port congestion and challenges due to driver and equipment shortages to ease. Our sourcing total revenue and direct costs increased, driven by higher pricing and cost per case across all customer industries. 27 Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Our transportation adjusted gross profits increased due to increased pricing compared to the prior year across most of our services lines, most notably in our truckload and LTL services resulting in higher adjusted gross profits per transaction. Our surface transportation adjusted gross profit per transaction benefited from the declining cost of purchased transportation relative to our contractual rates negotiated in prior quarters. Sourcing adjusted gross profits increased driven by an increase in case volume across the retail and foodservice industries and higher adjusted gross profits per case across all customer industries. Operating expenses. Personnel expenses increased primarily due to an increase in salaries and incentive compensation driven by an increase in average employee headcount. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in stock-based compensation expense as the prior year included significant stock-based compensation expense on performance-based equity awards granted prior to 2021. Other SG&A expenses increased primarily due to increases in purchased and contracted services, legal settlements, travel, and warehouse expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $23.5 million gain on the sale-leaseback of a facility in Kansas City and lower credit losses. Operating expenses in 2022 also included the impact of organizational changes made to support our enterprise strategy of accelerating our digital transformation and productivity initiatives. In connection with these organizational changes, we recorded $21.5 million of personnel expense, primarily related to severance, and $15.2 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized internally developed software projects as a result of these restructuring initiatives. Interest and other income/expense, net. Interest and other expense of $100.0 million primarily consisted of $77.1 million of interest expense, which increased $25.0 million compared to the prior year due to a higher average debt balance. The current year also included a $23.5 million unfavorable impact of foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses driven primarily by balances denominated in U.S. Dollars, including intercompany balances, in regions where the U.S. Dollar is not the functional currency. The prior year included a $15.1 million unfavorable impact of foreign currency revaluation and realized foreign currency gains and losses. These prior year expenses were partially offset by a $2.9 million local government subsidy in Asia for achieving specified performance criteria that was almost entirely offset by a reduction in foreign tax credits within the provision for income taxes. Provision for income taxes. Our effective income tax rate was 19.4 percent in 2022 and 17.4 percent in 2021. The effective income tax rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate primarily due to the tax benefit from U.S. tax credits and incentives, foreign tax credits, and the tax impact of share-based payment awards. These impacts were partially offset by state income taxes, net of federal benefits. The effective income tax rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, was lower than the statutory federal income tax rate primarily due to the tax benefit from U.S. tax credits and incentives, and a lower tax rate on foreign earnings. These impacts were partially offset by state income taxes, net of federal benefits. 28 NAST Segment Results of Operations ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 Total revenues and direct costs. NAST total revenues and direct costs increased driven by higher pricing and freight costs in truckload and LTL services in addition to an increase in volume in truckload services. The cost of purchased transportation started at historic levels in 2022 driven by the continuation of the strong demand that impacted much of 2021 combined with challenges related to driver availability, supply chain disruption, and weather events. Many of these challenges improved over the course of 2022 as demand slowed, which resulted in the cost of purchased transportation declining over the course of 2022. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. NAST adjusted gross profits increased due to higher adjusted gross profits per transaction. Our truckload services adjusted gross profit per transaction benefited from the declining cost of purchased transportation relative to our contractual rates negotiated in prior quarters. Our average truckload linehaul rate per mile charged to our customers decreased approximately 4.0 percent. Our truckload transportation costs, excluding fuel surcharges, decreased approximately 7.5 percent. NAST LTL adjusted gross profits increased due to increased adjusted gross profits per transaction. NAST other adjusted gross profits increased driven by increased warehousing services and an increase in intermodal adjusted gross profits. Operating expenses. NAST personnel expense increased primarily due to an increase in salaries and incentive compensation driven by an increase in average employee headcount. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in stock-based compensation expense as the prior year included significant stock-based compensation expense on performance-based equity awards granted prior to 2021. NAST SG&A expenses increased driven by increased investments in technology, legal settlements, warehouse expenses, travel expenses, and increased expenditures for purchased and contracted services, including temporary labor. The operating expenses of NAST and all other segments include allocated corporate expenses. Allocated personnel expenses consist primarily of stock-based compensation allocated based upon segment participation levels in our equity plans. Remaining corporate allocations, including corporate functions and technology related expenses, are primarily included within each segment’s other SG&A expenses and allocated based upon relevant segment operating metrics. NAST operating expenses in 2022 also included the impact of organizational changes made to support our enterprise strategy of accelerating our digital transformation and productivity initiatives. In connection with these organizational changes, we 29 recorded $6.3 million of personnel expense, primarily related to severance, and $3.2 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized internally developed software projects as a result of these restructuring initiatives. Global Forwarding Segment Results of Operations ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 Total revenues and direct costs. Total revenues and direct costs increased due to higher pricing and purchased transportation costs in ocean services, partially offset by lower pricing in air freight services, in addition to volume decreases in both ocean and air freight services. Similar to surface transportation, the cost of purchased transportation started at historic levels in 2022 driven by the continuation of the strong demand that impacted much of 2021. This was combined with supply chain disruptions caused by port congestion as well as equipment and labor shortages. As global demand slowed in most trade lanes in the second half of 2022, many of these challenges improved, which resulted in a rapid decline in purchased transportation costs and pricing. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Ocean freight adjusted gross profits increased, driven by higher pricing and resulting in higher adjusted gross profits per transaction in the first half of 2022. These higher adjusted gross profits were largely offset by declining shipments in the second half of 2022, as discussed in the market trends and business trends sections above. Air freight adjusted gross profits decreased, driven by pricing and volumes significantly declining over the course of 2022 as shippers struggled with elevated inventory levels, consumer demand declined, and improving ocean schedule reliability eliminated ocean freight to air freight conversions. Customs adjusted gross profits increased driven by an increase in transaction volumes. Operating expenses. Personnel expenses increased primarily due to an increase in salaries driven by an increase in average employee headcount. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in stock-based compensation expense as the prior year included significant stock-based compensation expense on performance-based equity awards granted prior to 2021. SG&A expenses increased driven by increased investments in technology, partially offset by lower credit losses. 30 Global Forwarding operating expenses in 2022 also included the impact of organizational changes made to support our enterprise strategy of accelerating our digital transformation and productivity initiatives. In connection with these organizational changes, we recorded $3.8 million of personnel expense, primarily related to severance, and $3.2 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized internally developed software projects as a result of these restructuring initiatives. All Other and Corporate Segment Results of Operations All Other and Corporate includes our Robinson Fresh and Managed Services segment, as well as Other Surface Transportation outside of North America and other miscellaneous revenues and unallocated corporate expenses. ________________________________ (1) Adjusted gross profits is a non-GAAP financial measure explained above. Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2022 Compared to Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2021 Total revenues and direct costs. Total revenues and direct costs increased driven by higher pricing and cost per case across all customer industries in Robinson Fresh. Other Surface Transportation total revenues and direct costs also increased, driven by higher truckload pricing in Europe. Gross profits and adjusted gross profits. Robinson Fresh adjusted gross profits increased, driven by an increase in case volume across the retail and foodservice industries and higher adjusted gross profits per case across all customer industries. Managed Services adjusted gross profits increased, due to an increase in freight under management and growth in adjusted gross profit per transaction. Other Surface Transportation adjusted gross profits increased primarily due to higher European truckload adjusted gross profits per transaction, partially offset by a decline in Europe truckload volumes. Operating expenses. The operating expenses for All Other and Corporate included the impact of organizational changes made to support our enterprise strategy of accelerating our digital transformation and productivity initiatives. In connection with these organizational changes, we recorded $11.4 million of personnel expense, primarily related to severance, and $8.8 million of other SG&A expenses, primarily due to the impairment of certain capitalized internally developed software projects as a result of these restructuring initiatives. 31 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We have historically generated substantial cash from operations, which has enabled us to fund our organic growth while paying cash dividends and repurchasing stock. In addition, we maintain the following debt facilities as described in Note 4, Financing Arrangements (dollars in thousands): ________________________________ (1) Net of unamortized discounts and issuance costs. We expect to use our current debt facilities and potentially other indebtedness incurred in the future to assist us in continuing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, possible acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases, or other investments. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $217.5 million as of December 31, 2022, and $257.4 million as of December 31, 2021. Cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S. totaled $204.7 million as of December 31, 2022, and $217.1 million as of December 31, 2021. Working capital decreased from $1.48 billion at December 31, 2021, to $266.4 million at December 31, 2022. We prioritize our investments to grow our market share and expand globally in key industries, trade lanes, and geographies, and to digitize our customer, carrier, and internal tools to support our organic growth. We are continually looking for acquisitions, but those acquisitions must fit our culture and enhance our growth opportunities. The following table summarizes our major sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents (dollars in thousands): 32 Cash flow from operating activities. The significant increase in cash flow from operating activities in 2022 from 2021 was due to a decrease in operating working capital. The improvement in 2022 from 2021 was primarily due to a $650 million sequential decrease in operating working capital, which represents accounts receivable and contract assets less total accounts payable and accrued transportation expense. The decrease in operating working capital was driven by the decline in the cost of purchased transportation and the related decline in freight rates near the end of 2022. Conversely, 2021 included a $200 million sequential increase in operating working capital as the cost of purchased transportation and freight rates were rising near the end of 2021. The increase in operating working capital near the end of 2021 was also impacted by a change in business mix from the significant growth of our Global Forwarding business where our days sales outstanding ratio is approximately double that of our NAST business. Cash used for investing activities. Our investing activities consist primarily of capital expenditures and cash paid for acquisitions. Capital expenditures consisted primarily of investments in software, which are intended to deliver scalable solutions to improve our customer and carrier experience and increase our efficiency to help expand our adjusted operating margins and grow the business. During 2022, we sold an office building in Kansas City, Missouri, for a sales price of $55.0 million and recognized a gain of $23.5 million on the sale in the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. We simultaneously entered into an agreement to lease the office building for 10 years. In 2021, we used $14.7 million for the acquisition of Combinex. In 2020, we used $222.7 million for the acquisition of Prime. We anticipate capital expenditures in 2023 to be approximately $90 million to $100 million. Cash used for financing activities. We had net borrowings on debt in 2022 and 2021 and net repayments in 2020 . Net borrowings in 2022 were primarily to fund share repurchases and working capital needs in the first half of 2022. The increase in cash used for share repurchases was due to an increase in the number of shares repurchased and a higher average price per share during 2022 . Net borrowings in 2021 were primarily to provide cash for operations, as our working capital needs increased throughout 2021 as mentioned above. The net repayments in 2020 were primarily to reduce the outstanding balance on the Receivables Securitization Facility. In December 2021 , the Board of Directors increased the number of shares authorized to be repurchased by 20,000,000 shares. As of December 31, 2022, there were 7,409,198 shares remaining for future repurchases. The number of shares we repurchase, if any, during future periods will vary based on our cash position, potential alternative uses of our cash, and market conditions. Over the long term, we remain committed to our quarterly dividend and share repurchases to enhance shareholder value. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. We may seek to retire or purchase our outstanding Senior Notes through open market cash purchases, privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise. We believe that, assuming no change in our current business plan, our available cash, together with expected future cash generated from operations, the amount available under our credit facilities, and credit available in the market, will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated needs for working capital, capital expenditures, and cash dividends for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future thereafter. We also believe we could obtain funds under lines of credit or other forms of indebtedness on short notice, if needed. As of December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all of the covenants under our debt agreements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”). The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and the related disclosures. Because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates, and such differences could be material. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We consider the following items in our consolidated financial statements to require significant estimation or judgment. 33 REVENUE RECOGNITION. At contract inception, we assess the goods and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify our performance obligations to provide distinct goods and services to our customers. Our transportation and logistics service arrangements often require management to use judgment and make estimates that impact the amounts and timing of revenue recognition. Transportation and Logistics Services - As a global logistics provider, our primary performance obligation under our customer contracts is to utilize our relationships with a wide variety of transportation companies to efficiently and cost-effectively transport our customers’ freight. Revenue is recognized for these performance obligations as they are satisfied over the contract term, which generally represents the transit period. The transit period can vary based upon the method of transport; generally, a number of days for over the road, rail, and air transportation, or several weeks in the case of an ocean shipment. Recognizing revenue for contracts where the transit period is partially complete or completed and not yet invoiced at period end requires management to make judgments that affect the amounts and timing of revenue recognized at period end. As of December 31, 2022, we recorded revenue of $257.6 million for services we have provided while a shipment was still in-transit but for which we had not yet completed our performance obligation or had not yet invoiced our customer compared to $453.7 million at December 31, 2021. The amount of revenue recognized for contracts where the transit period was partially complete declined significantly at December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021 driven by the macroeconomic and industry factors impacting the cost of purchased transportation, in addition to the supply chain disruptions that caused increased transit times near the end of 2021. See Item 7 of Part II, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , for further information. We utilize our historical knowledge of shipping lanes and estimated transit times to determine the transit period in cases where our customers’ freight has not reached its intended destination. In addition, we analyze contract data for the first few days following the reporting date combined with our historical experience of trends related to partially completed contracts as of the reporting date to determine our right to consideration for the services we have provided where the transit period is partially complete or completed and not yet invoiced at period end. Differences in contract data for the first few days following the reporting date compared with our historical experience or disruptions such as weather events, port congestion, or other delays could cause the actual amount of revenue earned at period end to differ from these estimates. Total revenues represent the total dollar value of revenue recognized from contracts with customers for the goods and services we provide. Substantially all of our revenue is attributable to contracts with our customers. Most transactions in our transportation and sourcing businesses are recorded at the gross amount we charge our customers for the service we provide and goods we sell. In these transactions, we are primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service to our customer and we have discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. Additionally, in our sourcing business, in some cases we take inventory risk before the specified good has been transferred to our customer. Customs brokerage, managed services, freight forwarding, and sourcing managed procurement transactions are recorded at the net amount we charge our customers for the service we provide because many of the factors stated above are not present. See also Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , for further information regarding our revenue recognition policies. GOODWILL. Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquired businesses over the net of the fair value of identifiable tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets purchased and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually on November 30, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units is less than their respective carrying value (“Step Zero Analysis”). If the Step Zero Analysis indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units is less than their respective carrying value, an additional impairment assessment is performed (“Step One Analysis”). When we perform a Step One Analysis, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared with the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. In the Step One Analysis, the fair value of each reporting unit is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis and market approach. Projecting discounted future cash flows requires us to make significant estimates regarding future revenues and expenses, projected capital expenditures, changes in working capital, and the appropriate discount rate. Use of the market approach consists of comparisons to comparable publicly-traded companies that are similar in size and industry. Actual results may differ from those used in our valuations when a Step One Analysis is performed. As part of our annual Step Zero Analysis performed in 2022, we determined that due to certain qualitative factors and the recent performance of our Europe Surface Transportation reporting unit, the more likely than not criteria had been met, and therefore a Step One Analysis was completed for this reporting unit. Our Step Zero Analysis did not indicate that the more likely than not 34 criteria was met for any other reporting units and therefore a Step One Analysis was not completed for those reporting units. As a result of our Step One Analysis for Europe Surface Transportation we determined that the fair value was greater than the reporting unit's respective carrying value. As such, the goodwill balance of Europe Surface Transportation was not impaired. No impairments have been recorded in any period presented in the financial statements. INCOME TAX RESERVES. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions are likely to be challenged and that we may or may not prevail in full or in part. Under U.S. GAAP, if we determine that a tax position, more likely than not, will be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the position, we recognize the benefit. We measure the benefit by determining the amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon resolution. We presume that all tax positions will be examined by a taxing authority with full knowledge of all relevant information. We regularly monitor our tax positions and tax liabilities. We reevaluate the technical merits of our tax positions and recognize an uncertain tax benefit, or derecognize a previously recorded tax benefit, when there is (i) a completion of a tax audit, (ii) effective settlement of an issue, (iii) litigation of the issue, including appeals, (iv) a change in applicable tax law including a tax case or legislative guidance, or (v) the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Significant judgment is required in accounting for tax reserves. Although we believe that we have adequately provided for liabilities resulting from tax assessments by taxing authorities, positions taken by these tax authorities could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, consolidated earnings, financial position and/or cash flows. Uncertain income tax positions are included in “Accrued income taxes” or “Noncurrent income taxes payable” in the consolidated balance sheet. DISCLOSURES ABOUT CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL CONTINGENCIES The following table aggregates all contractual commitments and commercial obligations, due by period, that affect our financial condition and liquidity position as of December 31, 2022 (dollars in thousands): ________________________________ (1) Amounts payable relate to the semi-annual interest due on the senior and long-term notes and the principal amount at maturity. (2) We maintain operating leases for office space, warehouses, office equipment, and a small number of intermodal containers. See Note 11, Leases , for further information. (3) Purchase obligations include agreements for services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms. As of December 31, 2022, such obligations primarily include ocean and air freight capacity, telecommunications services, third-party software contracts, maintenance contracts, and information technology related capacity. In some instances our contractual commitments may be usage based or require estimates as to the timing of cash settlement. We have no financing lease obligations. Long-term liabilities consist primarily of noncurrent taxes payable and long-term notes payable. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the amounts or timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2022, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, $43.0 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. See Note 5, Income Taxes , to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion on income taxes. As of December 31, 2022, we do not have significant off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. 35