********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive business environment, which affects our ability to attract and retain customers and can adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has become more so in recent years. In some instances, we compete against companies with fewer regulatory burdens, access to better financing, greater personnel resources, greater resources for marketing, greater and more favorable brand name recognition, and long-established relationships with regulatory authorities and customers. Increasing consolidation in the telecommunications and content industries have provided additional benefits to certain of our competitors, either through access to financing, resources, or efficiencies of scale including the ability to launch new video services. Our Internet service faces competition from the phone companies’ FTTH, FTTN, fixed wireless broadband, Internet delivered via satellite and DSL services. Various operators offer wireless Internet services delivered over networks which they continue to enhance to deliver faster speeds and also continue to expand 5G mobile services.  Our voice and mobile services compete 17 with wireless and wireline phone providers, as well as other forms of communication, such as text, instant messaging, social networking services, video conferencing and email. Competition from these companies, including intensive marketing efforts with aggressive pricing and exclusive programming may have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain customers. Our video service faces competition from a number of sources, including DBS services, and companies that deliver linear network programming, movies and television shows on demand and other video content over broadband Internet connections to televisions, computers, tablets and mobile devices often with password sharing among multiple users and security that makes content susceptible to piracy.  Newer products and services, particularly alternative methods for the distribution, sale and viewing of content will likely continue to be developed, further increasing the number of competitors that we face. The increasing number of choices available to audiences, including low-cost or free choices, could negatively impact not only consumer demand for our products and services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from us. We compete for the sale of advertising revenue with television networks and stations, as well as other advertising platforms, such as online media, radio and print.  Competition related to our service offerings to businesses continues to increase as well, as more companies deploy more fiber to more buildings, which may negatively impact our growth and/or put pressure on margins. Our failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to new technologies and changes in customer expectations and behavior could significantly adversely affect our competitive position with respect to the leisure time and discretionary spending of our customers and, as a result, affect our business and results of operations.  Competition may also reduce our expected growth of future cash flows which may contribute to future impairments of our franchises and goodwill and our ability to meet cash flow requirements, including debt service requirements.  For additional information regarding the competition we face, see “Item 1. Business -Competition” and “-Regulation and Legislation.” The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has increased economic and demand uncertainty.  The current pandemic and continued spread of COVID-19 has caused an economic recession.  At this time, we cannot predict the duration of any business disruption and the ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our business, including the depth and duration of the economic impact to household formation and growth, our residential and business customers’ ability to pay for our products and services including the impact of extended unemployment benefits and other stimulus packages and the long-term impact on our business, including from consumer behavior, after the pandemic is over.  We expect that some of the COVID-19 programs may result in incremental churn and bad debt in 2021.  In addition, there is uncertainty regarding the impact of government emergency declarations, the ability of our suppliers and vendors to provide products and services to us, the pace of new housing construction, changes in business spend in our local and national ad sales business, the effects to our employees’ health and safety and resulting reorientation of our work activities, and the risk of limitations on the deployment and maintenance of our services (including by limiting our customer support and on-site service repairs and installations).  The degree to which COVID-19 impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, the timing of approval and distribution of vaccines and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Programming costs per video customer are rising at a  faster rate than wages or inflation, and we may not have the ability to reduce or moderate the growth rates of, or pass on to our customers, our increasing programming costs, which would adversely affect our cash flow and operating margins. Video programming has been, and is expected to continue to be, our largest operating expense item. Media corporation and broadcast station group consolidation has resulted in fewer suppliers and additional selling power on the part of programming suppliers.  We expect programming rates per video customer will continue to increase due to a variety of factors, including annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media and broadcast station groups consolidation, increased demands by owners of broadcast stations for payment for retransmission consent or linking carriage of other services to retransmission consent, and additional programming, particularly new services. The inability to fully pass programming cost increases on to our customers has had, and is expected in the future to have, an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product. Programming contracts often restrict the structure of the video packages we offer which impacts the affordability and competitive positioning of our video service.  The contracts set to expire in any particular year vary. There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms. In addition, a number of programmers have begun to sell their services through alternative distribution channels, including IP-based platforms, which are less secure than our own video distribution platforms. There is growing evidence that these less secure video distribution platforms are leading to video product theft via password sharing among consumers. Password sharing may drive down the number of customers who pay for certain programming, putting programmer revenues at risk, and which in 18 turn may cause certain programmers to seek even higher programming fees from us.  The ability for consumers to receive the same content for free through such unauthorized channels has devalued our video product which could impact sales, customer retention and our ability to pass through programming costs to consumers, which increases the risk of non-renewal when programmers seek increases.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we have been, and may be in the future, forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of customers. Our failure to carry programming that is attractive to our customers could adversely impact our customer levels, operations and financial results. In addition, if our Internet customers are unable to access desirable content online because content providers block or limit access by our customers as a class, our ability to gain and retain customers, especially Internet customers, may be negatively impacted. Increased demands by owners of some broadcast stations for carriage of other services or payments to those broadcasters for retransmission consent are likely to further increase our programming costs. Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts for the retransmission consent regime, we are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without that station’s permission. In some cases, we carry stations under short-term arrangements while we attempt to negotiate new long-term retransmission agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove unsuccessful, they could require us to cease carrying their signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations could make our video service less attractive to customers, which could result in less subscription and advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations, broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station on carriage of one or more other stations or programming services in which they or their affiliates have an interest. Carriage of these other services, as well as increased fees for retransmission rights, may increase our programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity we have available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our inability to respond to technological developments and meet customer demand for new products and services could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment. From time to time, we may pursue strategic initiatives to launch products or enhancements to our products.  Our success is, to a large extent, dependent on our ability to acquire, develop, adopt, upgrade and exploit new and existing technologies to address consumers’ changing demands and distinguish our services from those of our competitors.  We may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new products and services. If we choose technologies or equipment that are less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to customers than those chosen by our competitors, if technologies or equipment on which we have chosen to rely cease to be available to us on reasonable terms or conditions, if we offer services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or that do not function as expected, or we are not able to fund the expenditures necessary to keep pace with technological developments, or if we are no longer able to make our services available to our customers on a third-party device on which a substantial number of customers have relied to access our services, our competitive position could deteriorate, and our business and financial results could suffer. The ability of some of our competitors to introduce new technologies, products and services more quickly than we do may adversely affect our competitive position. Furthermore, advances in technology, decreases in the cost of existing technologies or changes in competitors’ product and service offerings may require us in the future to make additional research and development expenditures or to offer, at no additional charge or at a lower price, certain products and services that we currently offer to customers separately or at a premium. In addition, the uncertainty of our ability, and the costs, to obtain intellectual property rights from third parties could impact our ability to respond to technological advances in a timely and effective manner. Our inability to maintain and expand our upgraded systems and provide advanced services in a timely manner, or to anticipate the demands of the marketplace, could materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. In addition, as we continue to grow our mobile services using virtual network operator rights from a third party, we expect continued growth-related sales and marketing and other customer acquisition costs as well as negative working capital impacts from the timing of device-related cash flows when we provide devices pursuant to equipment installation plans.  We also continue to consider and pursue opportunities in the mobile space which may include the acquisition of additional licensed spectrum and may include entering into or expanding joint ventures or partnerships with wireless or cable providers which may require significant investment.  For example, we now hold CBRS PALs to support existing and future mobile services.  These licenses are subject to revocation and expiration.  Although we expect to be able to maintain and renew these licenses, the loss of one or more licenses could significantly impair our ability to offload mobile traffic and achieve cost reductions.  If we are unable to continue to grow our mobile business and achieve the outcomes we expect from our investments in the mobile business, our growth, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 We depend on third-party service providers, suppliers and licensors; thus, if we are unable to procure the necessary services, equipment, software or licenses on reasonable terms and on a timely basis, our ability to offer services could be impaired, and our growth, operations, business, financial results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of third-party service providers, suppliers and licensors to supply some of the services, hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide some of our services. Some of our hardware, software and operational support vendors, and service providers represent our sole source of supply or have, either through contract or as a result of intellectual property rights, a position of some exclusivity. If any of these parties breach or terminate or elect not to renew their agreements with us or otherwise fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner, demand exceeds these vendors’ capacity, tariffs are imposed that impact vendors' ability to perform their obligations or significantly increase the amount we pay, they experience operating or financial difficulties, they significantly increase the amount we are required to pay (including demands for substantial non-monetary compensation) for necessary products or services, or they cease production of any necessary product due to lack of demand, profitability or a change in ownership or are otherwise unable to provide the equipment or services we need in a timely manner, at our specifications and at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some services might be materially adversely affected, or the need to procure or develop alternative sources of the affected materials or services might interrupt or delay our ability to serve our customers. In addition, the existence of only a limited number of vendors of key technologies can lead to less product innovation and higher costs. These events could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain and attract customers and our operations, business, financial results and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends. We rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and licenses and other agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties to establish and maintain our intellectual property rights in technology and the products and services used in our operations. Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change, we both develop our own technologies, products and services and rely on technologies developed or licensed by third parties. However, any of our intellectual property rights, or the rights of our suppliers, could be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product or service offerings or other competitive harm. We may not be able to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, which could require us to change our business practices or offerings and limit our ability to compete effectively. Even unsuccessful claims can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Infringement claims continue to be brought frequently in the communications and entertainment industries, and we are also often a party to such litigation alleging that certain of our services or technologies infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Various events could disrupt or result in unauthorized access to our networks, information systems or properties and could impair our operating activities and negatively impact our reputation and financial results. Network and information systems technologies are critical to our operating activities, both for our internal uses, such as network management and supplying services to our customers, including customer service operations and programming delivery. Network or information system shutdowns or other service disruptions caused by events such as computer hacking, phishing, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software, “cyber attacks,” process breakdowns, denial of service attacks and other malicious activity pose increasing risks.  Both unsuccessful and successful “cyber attacks” on companies have continued to increase in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. While we develop and maintain systems seeking to prevent systems-related events and security breaches from occurring, the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as techniques used in such attacks become more sophisticated and change frequently. We, and the third parties on which we rely, may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures.  While from time to time attempts have been made to access our network, these attempts have not as yet resulted in any material release of information, degradation or disruption to our network and information systems. Our network and information systems are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, accidents, natural disasters (including extreme weather arising from short-term or any long-term changes in weather patterns), terrorist attacks and similar events. Our system redundancy may be ineffective or inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. 20 Any of these events, if directed at, or experienced by, us or technologies upon which we depend,  could have adverse consequences on our network, our customers and our business, including degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call volume to call centers, and damage to our or our customers’ equipment and data.  Large expenditures may be necessary to repair or replace damaged property, networks or information systems or to protect them from similar events in the future.  Moreover, the amount and scope of insurance that we maintain against losses resulting from any such events or security breaches may not be sufficient to cover our losses or otherwise adequately compensate us for any disruptions to our business that may result.  Any such significant service disruption could result in damage to our reputation and credibility, customer dissatisfaction and ultimately a loss of customers or revenue.  Any significant loss of customers or revenue, or significant increase in costs of serving those customers, could adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our operating activities could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our information technology systems and networks and those of our third-party vendors, including customer, personnel and vendor data. We provide certain confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties in connection with our business, and there is a risk that this information may be compromised. We process, store, and transmit large amounts of data, including the personal information of our customers.  Ongoing increases in the potential for mis-use of personal information, the public’s awareness of the importance of safeguarding personal information, and the volume of legislation that has been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection, privacy, and security of personal information have resulted in increases to our information-related risks. We could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such events could damage our reputation, credibility and business and have a negative impact on our revenue. We could be subject to regulatory actions and claims made by consumers in private litigations involving privacy issues related to consumer data collection and use practices. We also could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach. Our exposure to the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, vendors and third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. We are exposed to risks associated with the economic conditions of our current and potential customers, the potential financial instability of our customers and their financial ability to purchase our products. If there were a general economic downturn, we may experience increased cancellations or non-payment by our customers or unfavorable changes in the mix of products purchased.  This may include an increase in the number of homes that replace their video service with Internet-delivered and/or over-air content, as well as an increase in the number of Internet and voice customers substituting mobile data and voice products for wireline services, which would negatively impact our ability to attract customers, increase rates and maintain or increase revenue.  In addition, our ability to gain new customers is dependent to some extent on growth in occupied housing in our service areas, which is influenced by both national and local economic conditions.  Weak economic conditions may also have a negative impact on our advertising revenue. These events have adversely affected us in the past, and may adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition if a downturn were to occur. In addition, we are susceptible to risks associated with the potential financial instability of the vendors and third parties on which we rely to provide products and services or to which we outsource certain functions. The same economic conditions that may affect our customers, as well as volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets, also could adversely affect vendors and third parties and lead to significant increases in prices, reduction in output or the bankruptcy of our vendors or third parties upon which we rely. Any interruption in the services provided by our vendors or by third parties could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operation and financial condition. For tax purposes, Charter could experience a deemed ownership change in the future that could limit its ability to use its tax loss carryforwards. Charter had approximately $5.3 billion of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2020. These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC ("Charter Holdco") and its subsidiaries and from loss carryforwards received as a result of the merger with TWC. Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2022 through 2035.  In addition, Charter had state tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $223 million as of December 31, 2020. State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2021 through 2040. In the past, Charter has experienced ownership changes as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). In general, an ownership change occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, 21 directly or indirectly, by 5-percent stockholders (within the meaning of Section 382 of the Code) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such 5-percent stockholders at any time over the preceding three years. As a result, Charter is subject to an annual limitation on the use of its loss carryforwards which existed at November 30, 2009 for the first ownership change, those that existed at May 1, 2013 for the second ownership change, and those created at May 18, 2016 for the third ownership change. The limitation on Charter's ability to use its loss carryforwards, in conjunction with the loss carryforward expiration provisions, could reduce Charter's ability to use a portion of its loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income, which could result in Charter being required to make material cash tax payments. Charter's ability to make such income tax payments, if any, will depend at such time on its liquidity or its ability to raise additional capital, and/or on receipt of payments or distributions from Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries. If Charter were to experience additional ownership changes in the future (as a result of purchases and sales of stock by its 5-percent stockholders, new issuances or redemptions of our stock, certain acquisitions of its stock and issuances, redemptions, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in its 5-percent stockholders), Charter's ability to use its loss carryforwards could become subject to further limitations. If we are unable to retain key employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our operational results have depended, and our future results will depend, upon the retention and continued performance of our management team. Our ability to retain and hire new key employees for management positions could be impacted adversely by the competitive environment for management talent in the broadband communications industry. The loss of the services of key members of management and the inability or delay in hiring new key employees could adversely affect our ability to manage our business and our future operational and financial results. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have a significant amount of debt and expect to incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to react to changes in our business. We have a significant amount of debt and expect to (subject to applicable restrictions in our debt instruments) incur additional debt in the future as we maintain our stated objective of 4.0 to 4.5 times Adjusted EBITDA leverage (net debt divided by the last twelve months Adjusted EBITDA). As of December 31, 2020, our total principal amount of debt was approximately $82.1 billion with a leverage ratio of 4.4 times Adjusted EBITDA. Our significant amount of debt could have consequences, such as: • impact our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable rates, or at all; • make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, in part because approximately 13% of our borrowings as of December 31, 2020 were, and may continue to be, subject to variable rates of interest; • expose us to increased interest expense to the extent we refinance existing debt with higher cost debt; • require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operating activities to make payments on our debt, reducing our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate expenses; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the cable and telecommunications industries, and the economy at large; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt; and • adversely affect our relationship with customers and suppliers. To the extent our current debt amounts increase more than expected, our business results are lower than expected, or credit rating agencies downgrade our debt limiting our access to investment grade markets, the related risks that we now face will intensify. In addition, our variable rate indebtedness may use London Interbank Offering Rate (“LIBOR”) as a benchmark for establishing the rate. The United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, has announced that it intends to stop one week and 2 month U.S. Dollar (“USD”) LIBOR rates after 2021 with remaining USD LIBOR rates ceasing to be published on June 30, 2023 (the “FCA Announcement”).  In the United States, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee has proposed the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as an alternative to LIBOR. It is not presently known whether SOFR or any other alternative reference rates that have been proposed will attain market acceptance as replacements of LIBOR. In addition, the overall financial markets may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Uncertainty as to the nature of 22 such phase out and selection of an alternative reference rate, together with disruption in the financial markets, could increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity. Our credit facilities and the indentures governing our debt contain a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our ability to operate our business, our liquidity, and our results of operations. These covenants restrict, among other things, our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur additional debt; • repurchase or redeem equity interests and debt; • issue equity; • make certain investments or acquisitions; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • dispose of assets or merge; • enter into related party transactions; and • grant liens and pledge assets. Additionally, the Charter Communications Operating, LLC ("Charter Operating") credit facilities require Charter Operating to comply with a maximum total leverage covenant and a maximum first lien leverage covenant. The breach of any covenants or obligations in our indentures or credit facilities, not otherwise waived or amended, could result in a default under the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. In addition, the secured lenders under our notes and the Charter Operating credit facilities could foreclose on their collateral, which includes equity interests in substantially all of our subsidiaries, and exercise other rights of secured creditors. Risks Related to Ownership Position of Liberty Broadband Corporation and Advance/Newhouse Partnership Liberty Broadband Corporation ("Liberty Broadband) and Advance/Newhouse Partnership (“A/N”) have governance rights that give them influence over corporate transactions and other matters. Liberty Broadband currently owns a significant amount of Charter Class A common stock and is entitled to certain governance rights with respect to Charter.  A/N currently owns Charter Class A common stock and a significant amount of membership interests in our subsidiary Charter Communications Holdings, LLC (“Charter Holdings”), which are convertible into Charter Class A common stock, and is entitled to certain governance rights with respect to Charter. Members of the Charter board of directors include a director who is also an officer and director of Liberty Broadband and directors who are current or former officers and directors of A/N. Mr. Greg Maffei is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Liberty Broadband. Steven Miron is the Chief Executive Officer of A/N and Michael Newhouse is an officer or director of several of A/N’s affiliates. As of December 31, 2020, Liberty Broadband beneficially held approximately 27.23% of Charter’s voting stock and A/N beneficially held approximately 12.71% of Charter’s voting stock. Pursuant to the stockholders agreement between Liberty Broadband, A/N and Charter, Liberty Broadband currently has the right to designate up to three directors as nominees for Charter’s board of directors and A/N currently has the right to designate up to two directors as nominees for Charter’s board of directors.  Each of A/N and Liberty Broadband is entitled to nominate at least one director  to each of the committees of Charter's board of directors, subject to applicable stock exchange listing rules and certain specified voting or equity ownership thresholds for each of A/N and Liberty Broadband, and provided that the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Compensation and Benefit Committee each have at least a majority of directors independent from A/N, Liberty Broadband and Charter (referred to as the “unaffiliated directors” in the stockholders agreement). In connection with the closing of the acquisition of Bright House, A/N and Liberty Broadband entered into a proxy agreement pursuant to which A/N granted to Liberty Broadband a 5-year irrevocable proxy expiring in May 2021 (which we refer to as the “A/N proxy”) to vote, subject to certain exceptions, that number of shares of Charter Class A common stock and Charter Class B common stock, in each case held by A/N (such shares are referred to as the “proxy shares”), that will result in Liberty Broadband having voting power in Charter equal to 25.01% of the outstanding voting power of Charter, provided, that the voting power of the proxy shares is capped at 7.0% of the outstanding voting power of Charter.  As of December 31, 2020, Liberty Broadband’s voting power in Charter exceeded 25.01% and therefore, the A/N proxy had no impact on Liberty Broadband’s voting power. The stockholders agreement and Charter’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation fixes the size of the board at 13 directors. Liberty Broadband and A/N are required to vote (subject to the applicable voting cap) their 23 respective shares of Charter Class A common stock and Charter Class B common stock for the director nominees nominated by the nominating and corporate governance committee of the board of directors, including the respective designees of Liberty Broadband and A/N, and against any other nominees, except that, with respect to the unaffiliated directors, Liberty Broadband and A/N must instead vote in the same proportion as the voting securities are voted by stockholders other than A/N and Liberty Broadband or any group which includes any of them are voted, if doing so would cause a different outcome with respect to the unaffiliated directors.  In addition, because Liberty Broadband’s voting power exceeds its voting cap of 25.01%, Liberty Broadband must vote and exercise rights to consent with respect to voting securities held in excess of the voting cap in the same proportion as all other votes cast by stockholders other than A/N and Liberty Broadband with respect to the applicable matter.  As a result of their rights under the stockholders agreement and their significant equity and voting stakes in Charter, Liberty Broadband and/or A/N, who may have interests different from those of other stockholders, will be able to exercise substantial influence over certain matters relating to the governance of Charter, including the approval of significant corporate actions, such as mergers and other business combination transactions. The stockholders agreement provides A/N and Liberty Broadband with preemptive rights with respect to issuances of Charter equity in connection with certain transactions, and in the event that A/N or Liberty Broadband exercises these rights, holders of Charter Class A common stock may experience further dilution. The stockholders agreement provides that A/N and Liberty Broadband will have certain contractual preemptive rights over issuances of Charter equity securities in connection with capital raising transactions, merger and acquisition transactions, and in certain other circumstances. Holders of Charter Class A common stock will not be entitled to similar preemptive rights with respect to such transactions. As a result, if Liberty Broadband and/or A/N elect to exercise their preemptive rights, (i) these parties would not experience the dilution experienced by the other holders of Charter Class A common stock, and (ii) such other holders of Charter Class A common stock may experience further dilution of their interest in Charter upon such exercise. Risks Related to Regulatory and Legislative Matters Our business is subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation, which could adversely affect our business. Regulation of the cable industry has increased cable operators’ operational and administrative expenses and limited their revenues. Cable operators are subject to numerous laws and regulations including those covering the following: • the provision of high-speed Internet service, including net neutrality and transparency rules; • the provision of voice communications; • cable franchise renewals and transfers; • the provisioning and marketing of cable and Internet equipment; • customer and employee privacy and data security; • copyright royalties for retransmitting broadcast signals; • when a cable system must carry a particular broadcast station and when it must first obtain retransmission consent to carry a broadcast station; • limitations on our ability to enter into exclusive agreements with multiple dwelling unit complexes and control our inside wiring; • equal employment opportunity; • emergency alert systems, disability access, pole attachments, commercial leased access and technical standards; • marketing practices, customer service, and consumer protection; and • approval for mergers and acquisitions often accompanied by the imposition of restrictions and requirements on an applicant’s business in order to secure approval of the proposed transaction. Legislators and regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or prescribe new ones.  Any future legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative actions may increase our costs or impose additional restrictions on our businesses. Changes to existing statutes, rules, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or adoption of new ones, could have an adverse effect on our business. There are ongoing efforts to amend or expand the federal, state, and local regulation of some of the services offered over our cable systems, which may compound the regulatory risks we already face. For example, with respect to our retail broadband Internet access service, the FCC has reclassified the service twice in the last few years, with the first change adding federal 24 regulatory obligations and the second change largely removing those new regulatory obligations. A change in Administration and a new Congress in 2021 may result in the re-imposition of obligations, through legislation or regulation. Other potential legislative and regulatory changes could adversely impact our business by increasing our costs and competition and limiting our ability to offer services in a manner that that would maximize our revenue potential.  These changes could  include, for example, the adoption of new privacy restrictions on our collection, use and disclosure of certain customer information, new data security and cybersecurity mandates that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business, new restraints on our discretion over programming decisions, new restrictions on the rates we charge for video programming and the marketing and packaging of that video programming and other services to consumers, changes to the cable industry’s compulsory copyright license to carry broadcast signals, new requirements to assure the availability of navigation devices (such as digital receivers) from third-party providers, new Universal Service Fund obligations on our provision of Internet service that would add to the cost of that service; increases in government-administered broadband subsidies to rural areas that could result in subsidized overbuilding of our more rural facilities, changes to the FCC's administration of spectrum, and changes in the regulatory framework for VoIP phone service, including the scope of regulatory obligations associated with our VoIP service and our ability to interconnect our VoIP service with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications service. If any of these such laws or regulations are enacted, they could affect our operations and require significant expenditures.  We cannot predict future developments in these areas, and any changes to the regulatory framework for our Internet, video or VoIP services could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. It remains uncertain what rule changes, if any, will ultimately be adopted by Congress and the FCC and what operating or financial impact any such rules might have on us, including on our programming agreements, customer privacy and the user experience. In addition, the FCC, the FTC, and various state agencies and attorney generals actively investigate industry practices and could impose substantial forfeitures for alleged regulatory violations. Tax legislation and administrative initiatives or challenges to our tax and fee positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We operate cable systems in locations throughout the United States and, as a result, we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of federal, state and local governments. From time to time, legislative and administrative bodies change laws and regulations that change our effective tax rate or tax payments.  For instance, there are initiatives at the federal level to reverse the corporate tax cuts in the favorable Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.  Certain states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on our services or changing the methodologies or base on which certain fees and taxes are computed. Potential changes include additional taxes or fees on our services which could impact our customers, changes to income tax sourcing rules and other changes to general business taxes, central/unit-level assessment of property taxes and other matters that could increase our income, franchise, sales, use and/or property tax liabilities. For example, some local franchising authorities are seeking to impose franchise fee assessments on our broadband Internet access service (in addition to our video service), and more may do so in the future.  If they do so, and challenges to such assessments are unsuccessful, it could adversely impact our costs.  Although the FCC issued a decision precluding the imposition of such duplicative fees, that favorable decision is currently subject to judicial review.  In addition, federal, state and local tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. Our cable system franchises are subject to non-renewal or termination and are non-exclusive. The failure to renew a franchise or the grant of additional franchises in one or more service areas could adversely affect our business. Our cable systems generally operate pursuant to franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by a state or local governmental authority controlling the public rights-of-way. Many franchises establish comprehensive facilities and service requirements, as well as specific customer service standards and monetary penalties for non-compliance. In many cases, franchises are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with significant provisions set forth in the franchise agreement governing system operations. Franchises are generally granted for fixed terms and must be periodically renewed. Franchising authorities may resist granting a renewal if either past performance or the prospective operating proposal is considered inadequate. Franchise authorities often demand concessions or other commitments as a condition to renewal. In some instances, local franchises have not been renewed at expiration, and we have operated and are operating under either temporary operating agreements or without a franchise while negotiating renewal terms with the local franchising authorities. 25 We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with all significant provisions of our franchise agreements and certain of our franchisers have from time to time alleged that we have not complied with these agreements. Additionally, although historically we have renewed our franchises without incurring significant costs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew, or to renew as favorably, our franchises in the future. A termination of or a sustained failure to renew a franchise in one or more service areas could adversely affect our business in the affected geographic area. Our cable system franchises are non-exclusive. Consequently, local and state franchising authorities can grant additional franchises to competitors in the same geographic area or operate their own cable systems. In some cases, local government entities and municipal utilities may legally compete with us on more favorable terms.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Reference is made to “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” which describe important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations and non-historical information contained herein.  In addition, the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto of Charter included in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Overview We are a leading broadband connectivity company and cable operator serving more than 31 million customers in 41 states through our Spectrum brand.  Over an advanced high-capacity, two-way telecommunications network, we offer a full range of state-of-the-art residential and business services including Spectrum Internet, TV, Mobile and Voice.  For small and medium-sized companies, Spectrum Business delivers the same suite of broadband products and services coupled with special features and applications to enhance productivity, while for larger businesses and government entities, Spectrum Enterprise provides highly customized, fiber-based solutions. Spectrum Reach delivers tailored advertising and production for the modern media landscape. We also distribute award-winning news coverage, sports and high-quality original programming to our customers through Spectrum Networks and Spectrum Originals.  See “Part I. Item 1. Business — Products and Services” for further description of these services, including customer statistics for different services. 28 The COVID-19 pandemic and measures taken to prevent its spread impacted our business and presented significant challenges throughout 2020.  To reduce the transmission of COVID-19, federal, state and local governments implemented a wide range of restrictions on business and individual activities, including closures or limitations on the operations of businesses along with restrictions on large gatherings, travel and other actions to promote or enforce physical distancing.  Despite these restrictions, we have continued to deliver our services uninterrupted across our footprint.  The pandemic has significantly impacted how our customers use our products and services, how they interact with us, and how our employees work and provide services to our customers. The impacts of COVID-19 have significantly impacted our results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2020 and we expect that there will continue to be impacts through 2021. • Beginning in March 2020, we offered our customers a set of programs, including our Remote Education Offer (“REO”) pursuant to which new customers with students or educators in the household were eligible to receive our Internet service for free for 60 days; and the Keep Americans Connected (“KAC”) pledge which paused collection efforts and related disconnects for residential and small and medium business (“SMB”) customers with COVID-19 related payment challenges through June 30, 2020.  These programs resulted in higher customer net additions in 2020 than prior year with retention rates for these customers similar to our average customer base. In an effort to assist COVID-19 impacted customers with overdue balances at the end of the KAC and certain state-mandated programs, we waived approximately $102 million of receivables which was recorded as a reduction of revenue. • The interruption of professional sports seasons resulted in $163 million lower programming expenses as a result of estimated sports rebates from sports programming networks as a result of canceled sporting events and a $217 million reduction in regulatory, connectivity and produced content costs as a result of a shortened 2020 baseball season and a delay to the start of the 2020-2021 basketball season which will push some expense that otherwise would have been recognized in 2020 to 2021 and beyond.  In the third quarter of 2020, we recognized $218 million of estimated credits that we intend to provide on our customers' invoices related to the rebates to be received from sports programming networks.  The difference between the estimated credits and the estimated rebates is due to an expected reduction in sports rights content costs which is being amortized over the life of the contract. • Economic conditions and temporary closures or reductions in operations of businesses resulted in reduced advertising spend and lower revenues from seasonal plans offered to SMB and Enterprise hospitality customers that have requested a reduced level of service due to temporary business closure or because these customers have reduced their service offering to their own customers ("Seasonal Plan").   Despite the economic conditions, we saw improved collections of residential customer receivables which we believe were enhanced by government stimulus benefits.  We expect bad debt expense and churn in 2021 to return to pre-pandemic levels. • We increased wages for all hourly field operations and customer service call center employees and gave our employees additional paid sick time for COVID-19-related illnesses and a flex time program to address other COVID-19 issues.  We also committed to raise our minimum starting wage for hourly employees to $20 an hour over the next 2 years. • Through accelerated network capacity increases we have been able to respond to the significant increase in data demands on our network to enable social distancing through telecommuting and e-learning with usage by our Internet-only customers averaging over 600 gigabytes per month, up nearly 20% from the end of 2019. • WiFi access points were opened across our footprint for public use. • Requests from government, healthcare and educational institutions for new fiber connections, bandwidth upgrades and new services were prioritized. • We have invested significantly in our self-service infrastructure, and customers have accelerated the adoption of our digital self-service capabilities and self-installation program with nearly 80% of installations using the program. • A significant portion of our workforce was temporarily moved to remote work arrangements. • We enhanced safety protocols for field and other employees working outside their home. • We offered public access to our Spectrum News websites to ensure people have access to high-quality local news and information and donated significant airtime to run public service announcements to our entire footprint. Our ability to successfully operate our business and deliver services during the COVID-19 pandemic is a result of investments we have made in our network, our employees and our systems.  Our operating and investment strategy has allowed us to sustain and accelerate our customer and financial growth during the pandemic. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of COVID-19 on our business, including the depth and duration of the economic impact to household formation and growth, our residential and business customers’ ability to pay for our products and services including the impact of extended unemployment benefits and other stimulus packages and the long-term impact on our business, including from consumer behavior, after the pandemic is over. Some of the COVID-19 programs discussed above may result in incremental churn and bad debt in 2021 and may have accelerated demand into 2020. In addition, there is uncertainty regarding the impact of government emergency declarations, the ability of our suppliers and vendors to provide products and services to us, the pace of new housing construction, changes in business spend in our local and national ad sales 29 business, the effects to our employees’ health and safety and resulting reorientation of our work activities, and the risk of limitations on the deployment and maintenance of our services (including by limiting our customer support and on-site service repairs and installations). Although the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be predicted, we remain focused on driving customer relationship growth by deploying superior products and services packaged with attractive pricing.  Further, we expect to continue to drive customer relationship growth through sales of bundled services and improving customer retention despite the expectation for continued losses of video and wireline voice customers. Our Spectrum Mobile service is offered to customers subscribing to our Internet service and runs on Verizon's mobile network combined with Spectrum WiFi.  In 2020, we launched 5G service offerings and refreshed our device offerings with new 5G models which we expect will contribute to continued growth of our mobile business. Our Spectrum Mobile BYOD program lowers the cost for consumers of switching mobile carriers, and reduces the short-term working capital impact of selling new mobile devices on installment plans. We also continue to explore ways to drive even more mobile traffic to our network. In October 2020, we purchased approximately $464 million of CBRS PALs and intend to use the licenses along with unlicensed CBRS spectrum to build our own 5G mobile network which we plan to use in combination with our MVNO and WiFi network to enhance the customer’s experience and improve our cost structure. We believe Spectrum-branded mobile services will drive higher sales of our core products, create longer customer lives and increase profitability and cash flow over time.  As a result of growth costs associated with our new mobile product line, we cannot be certain that we will be able to grow revenues or maintain our margins at recent historical rates.  During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our mobile product line increased revenues by $1.4 billion and $726 million, respectively, reduced Adjusted EBITDA by approximately $401 million and $520 million, respectively, and reduced free cash flow by approximately $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.  As we continue to grow our mobile services, we expect mobile Adjusted EBITDA will continue to be negative throughout 2021 primarily as a result of growth-related sales and marketing and other customer acquisition costs.  We also expect to continue to see negative free cash flow from the timing of device-related cash flows when we sell the handset or tablet to customers pursuant to equipment installment plans and capital expenditures related to retail store build-outs. We realized revenue, Adjusted EBITDA and income from operations during the periods presented as follows (in millions; all percentages are calculated using whole numbers.  Minor differences may exist due to rounding). Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income attributable to Charter shareholders plus net income attributable to noncontrolling interest, net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock compensation expense, loss on extinguishment of debt, (gain) loss on financial instruments, net, other pension (benefits) costs, net, other (income) expense, net and other operating (income) expenses, net, such as merger and restructuring costs, special charges and (gain) loss on sale or retirement of assets.  See “—Use of Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow” for further information on Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow. Growth in total revenue was primarily due to growth in our residential Internet and mobile customers.  Adjusted EBITDA and income from operations growth was impacted by growth in revenue and increases in operating costs and expenses, primarily mobile, costs to service customers and programming offset by lower sports rights content costs as a result of a shortened 2020 baseball season and a delayed start to the 2020-2021 basketball season.  Income from operations was also affected by a decrease in depreciation and amortization expense. Approximately 91% of our revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are attributable to monthly subscription fees charged to customers for our Internet, video, voice, mobile and commercial services as well as regional sports and news channels.  Generally, these customer subscriptions may be discontinued by the customer at any time subject to a fee for certain commercial customers.  The remaining 9% of revenue is derived primarily from advertising revenues, franchise and other regulatory fee revenues (which are collected by us but then paid to local authorities), sales of mobile and video devices, 30 processing fees or reconnection fees charged to customers to commence or reinstate service, installation, VOD and pay-per-view programming, and commissions related to the sale of merchandise by home shopping services. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Certain of our accounting policies require our management to make difficult, subjective and/or complex judgments. Management has discussed these policies with the Audit Committee of Charter’s board of directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the following disclosure.  We consider the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the estimates, assumptions and judgments that are involved in preparing our financial statements, and the uncertainties that could affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows: • Capitalization of labor and overhead costs • Valuation and impairment of franchises and goodwill • Income taxes • Defined benefit pension plans Capitalization of labor and overhead costs Costs associated with network construction or upgrades, placement of the customer drop to the dwelling and the placement of outlets within a dwelling along with the costs associated with the deployment of new customer premise equipment necessary to provide Internet, video or voice services, are capitalized.  Costs capitalized include materials, direct labor and certain indirect costs.  These indirect costs are associated with the activities of personnel who assist in installation activities, and consist of compensation and overhead costs associated with these support functions.  While our capitalization is based on specific activities, once capitalized, we track these costs on a composite basis by fixed asset category at the cable system level, and not on a specific asset basis.  For assets that are sold or retired, we remove the estimated applicable cost and accumulated depreciation.  The costs of disconnecting service and removing customer premise equipment from a dwelling and the costs to reconnect a customer drop or to redeploy previously installed customer premise equipment are charged to operating expense as incurred.  Costs for repairs and maintenance are charged to operating expense as incurred, while plant and equipment replacement, including replacement of certain components, betterments, and replacement of cable drops and outlets, are capitalized. We make judgments regarding the installation and construction activities to be capitalized.  We capitalized direct labor and overhead of $1.6 billion for each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.  We capitalize direct labor and overhead using standards developed from actual costs and applicable operational data.  We calculate standards annually (or more frequently if circumstances dictate) for items such as the labor rates, overhead rates, and the actual amount of time required to perform a capitalizable activity.  For example, the standard amounts of time required to perform capitalizable activities are based on studies of the time required to perform such activities.  Overhead rates are established based on an analysis of the nature of costs incurred in support of capitalizable activities, and a determination of the portion of costs that is directly attributable to capitalizable activities.  The impact of changes that resulted from these studies were not material in the periods presented. Labor costs directly associated with capital projects are capitalized.  Capitalizable activities performed in connection with installations include such activities as: • dispatching a “truck roll” to the customer’s dwelling or business for service connection or placement of new equipment; • costs to package and ship new equipment to a customer's home for self-installation; • verification of serviceability to the customer’s dwelling or business (i.e., determining whether the customer’s dwelling is capable of receiving service by our cable network); • customer premise activities performed by in-house field technicians and third-party contractors in connection with the installation, replacement and betterment of equipment and materials to enable Internet, video or voice services; and • verifying the integrity of the customer’s network connection by initiating test signals downstream from the headend to the customer premise equipment, as well as testing signal levels at the utility pole or pedestal. Judgment is required to determine the extent to which overhead costs incurred result from specific capital activities, and therefore should be capitalized.  The primary costs that are included in the determination of the overhead rate are (i) employee benefits and payroll taxes associated with capitalized direct labor, (ii) direct variable costs associated with capitalizable activities, (iii) the cost of support personnel, such as care personnel and dispatchers, who assist with capitalizable installation activities, and (iv) indirect costs directly attributable to capitalizable activities. 31 While we believe our existing capitalization policies are appropriate, a significant change in the nature or extent of our operating practices could affect management’s judgment about the extent to which we should capitalize direct labor or overhead in the future.  We monitor the appropriateness of our capitalization policies, and perform updates to our internal studies on an ongoing basis to determine whether facts or circumstances warrant a change to our capitalization policies. Valuation and impairment of franchises The net carrying value of franchises as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019 was approximately $67.3 billion (representing 47% and 45% of total assets, respectively).  Franchise assets are aggregated into essentially inseparable units of accounting to conduct valuations. The units of accounting generally represent geographical clustering of our cable systems into groups. For more information and a complete discussion of how we value and test franchise assets for impairment, see Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” We perform an impairment assessment of franchise assets annually or more frequently as warranted by events or changes in circumstances. We performed a qualitative assessment in 2020.  Our assessment included consideration of a multitude of factors that affect the fair value of our franchise assets. Examples of such factors include environmental and competitive changes within our operating footprint, actual and projected operating performance, the consistency of our operating margins, equity and debt market trends, including changes in our market capitalization, and changes in our regulatory and political landscape, among other factors. Based on our assessment, we concluded that it was more likely than not that the estimated fair values of our franchise assets equals or exceeds their carrying values and that a quantitative impairment test is not required. Valuation and impairment of goodwill The net carrying value of goodwill as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019 was approximately $29.6 billion (representing 20% of total assets).  We have determined that we have one reporting unit for purposes of the assessment of goodwill impairment.  For more information and a complete discussion on how we test goodwill for impairment, see Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  We perform our impairment assessment of goodwill annually as of November 30.  As with our franchise impairment testing, we elected to perform a qualitative assessment of goodwill in 2020. Given the completion of the assessment and absence of significant adverse changes in factors impacting our fair value estimates, we concluded that it is more likely than not that our goodwill is not impaired. Income taxes As of December 31, 2020, Charter had approximately $5.3 billion of federal tax net operating loss carryforwards resulting in a gross deferred tax asset of approximately $1.1 billion.  These losses resulted from the operations of Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries and from loss carryforwards received as a result of the merger with TWC.  Federal tax net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2022 through 2035.  In addition, as of December 31, 2020, Charter had state tax net operating loss carryforwards, resulting in a gross deferred tax asset (net of federal tax benefit) of approximately $223 million.  State tax net operating loss carryforwards generally expire in the years 2021 through 2040.  Such tax loss carryforwards can accumulate and be used to offset Charter’s future taxable income.  After December 31, 2020, $676 million of Charter's federal tax loss carryforwards are subject to Section 382 and other restrictions.  Pursuant to these restrictions, Charter estimates that approximately $226 million annually over each of the next three years of federal tax loss carryforwards, should become unrestricted and available for Charter’s use.  Charter’s state tax loss carryforwards are subject to similar but varying restrictions. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, management takes into account various factors, including the expected level of future taxable income, available tax planning strategies and reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. Approximately $9 million of valuation allowance associated with federal capital loss carryforwards and approximately $23 million of valuation allowance associated with state tax loss carryforwards and other miscellaneous deferred tax assets remains on the December 31, 2020 consolidated balance sheet. In determining our tax provision for financial reporting purposes, we establish a reserve for uncertain tax positions unless such positions are determined to be “more likely than not” of being sustained upon examination, based on their technical merits. In evaluating whether a tax position has met the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, we presume the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.  A tax position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in our financial statements.  The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being 32 realized when the position is ultimately resolved.  There is considerable judgment involved in determining whether positions taken on the tax return are “more likely than not” of being sustained.  We adjust our uncertain tax reserve estimates periodically because of ongoing examinations by, and settlements with, the various taxing authorities, as well as changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations. No tax years for Charter are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for income tax purposes. Charter's 2016 through 2020 tax years remain open for examination and assessment. Charter’s short period return dated May 17, 2016 (prior to the merger with TWC and acquisition of Bright House) and prior years remain open solely for purposes of examination of Charter’s loss and credit carryforwards. The IRS is currently examining Charter Holdings’ income tax return for 2016.  Charter Holdings’ 2017 through 2020 tax years remain open for examination and assessment.  The IRS is currently examining TWC’s income tax returns for 2011 through 2014. TWC’s tax year 2015 remains subject to examination and assessment.  Prior to TWC’s separation from Time Warner Inc. (“Time Warner”) in March 2009, TWC was included in the consolidated U.S. federal and certain state income tax returns of Time Warner. The IRS has examined Time Warner’s 2008 through 2010 income tax returns and the results are under appeal. The Company does not anticipate that these examinations will have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Company is also subject to ongoing examinations of the Company’s tax returns by state and local tax authorities for various periods.  Activity related to these state and local examinations did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2020, nor do we anticipate a material impact in the future. Defined benefit pension plans We sponsor qualified and unqualified defined benefit pension plans that provide pension benefits to a majority of employees who were employed by TWC before the merger with TWC.  As of December 31, 2020, the accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets was $3.7 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively, and the net underfunded liability was recorded as a $1 million noncurrent asset, $5 million current liability and $222 million long-term liability.  As of December 31, 2019, the accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets was $3.4 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, and the net underfunded liability was recorded as a $1 million noncurrent asset, $4 million current liability and $160 million long-term liability. Pension benefits are based on formulas that reflect the employees’ years of service and compensation during their employment period.  Actuarial gains or losses are changes in the amount of either the benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets resulting from experience different from that assumed or from changes in assumptions.  We have elected to follow a mark-to-market pension accounting policy for recording the actuarial gains or losses annually during the fourth quarter, or earlier if a remeasurement event occurs during an interim period.  We use a December 31 measurement date for our pension plans. We recognized net periodic pension costs of $66 million and $69 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Net periodic pension benefit or expense is determined using certain assumptions, including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, discount rate and mortality assumptions. We determined the discount rate used to compute pension expense based on the yield of a large population of high-quality corporate bonds with cash flows sufficient in timing and amount to settle projected future defined benefit payments. In developing the expected long-term rate of return on assets, we considered the current pension portfolio’s composition, past average rate of earnings, and our asset allocation targets. We used a discount rate of 2.70% to determine the December 31, 2020 pension plan benefit obligation.  A decrease in the discount rate of 25 basis points would result in a $153 million increase in our pension plan benefit obligation as of December 31, 2020 and net periodic pension expense recognized in 2020 under our mark-to-market accounting policy.  The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine net periodic pension benefit for the year ended December 31, 2021 is expected to be 5.00%.  A decrease in the expected long-term rate of return of 25 basis points to 4.75%, while holding all other assumptions constant, would result in an increase in our 2021 net periodic pension expense of approximately $8 million.  See Note 22 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional discussion on these assumptions. 33 Results of Operations A discussion of changes in our results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but may be found in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on January 31, 2020, which is available free of charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov and on our investor relations website at ir.charter.com. The following table sets forth the consolidated statements of operations for the periods presented (dollars in millions, except per share data): Revenues. Total revenues grew $2.3 billion or 5.1% during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily due to increases in the number of residential Internet and mobile customers, price adjustments and higher political advertising sales offset by lower local advertising revenues as a result of COVID-19, $218 million of estimated customer credits to be issued to our video customers due to canceled sporting events and $102 million of waived receivables related to the KAC and certain state-mandated programs. 34 Revenues by service offering were as follows (dollars in millions; all percentages are calculated using whole numbers. Minor differences may exist due to rounding): The increase in Internet revenues from our residential customers was attributable to the following (dollars in millions): Residential Internet customers grew by 2,115,000 in 2020 compared to 2019.  The increase related to rate, product mix and allocation changes was primarily due to price adjustments including promotional roll-off offset by a $34 million reduction related to the KAC and certain state-mandated program credits. Video revenues consist primarily of revenues from basic and digital video services provided to our residential customers, as well as franchise fees, equipment service fees and video installation revenue.  The decrease in video revenues was attributable to the following (dollars in millions): We recorded $218 million of estimated customer credits related to canceled sporting events during the year ended December 31, 2020 and $59 million of customer credits related to KAC and certain state-mandated programs.  The increase related to rate, product mix and allocation changes was primarily due to price adjustments including annual increases and promotional roll-off, partly offset by a higher mix of lower cost video packages within our video customer base.  Residential video customers increased by 19,000 in 2020 compared to 2019. 35 The decrease in voice revenues from our residential customers was attributable to the following (dollars in millions): Residential wireline voice customers decreased by 228,000 in 2020 compared to 2019.  The decrease related to rate, product mix and allocation changes was primarily due to value-based pricing and a $4 million reduction related to the KAC and certain state-mandated program credits The increase in SMB commercial revenues was attributable to the following (dollars in millions): SMB customers increased by 93,000 in 2020 compared to 2019.  The decrease related to rate and product mix changes during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 included reductions of $36 million related to COVID-19 programs. Enterprise revenues decreased $88 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in 2019 primarily due to the sale of non-strategic assets in the third quarter of 2019 and a reduction of $18 million related to the COVID-19 Enterprise hospitality seasonal program.  Enterprise PSUs increased by 7,000 in 2020 compared to 2019. Advertising sales revenues consist primarily of revenues from commercial advertising customers, programmers and other vendors, as well as local cable and advertising on regional sports and news channels.  Advertising sales revenues increased $131 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in 2019 primarily due to an increase in political revenue, partially offset by a decrease in local advertising revenues due to COVID-19. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, mobile revenues included approximately $658 million and $488 million of device revenues, respectively, and approximately $706 million and $238 million of service revenues, respectively.  The increases in revenues are a result of increases in the number of lines from 1,082,000 as of December 31, 2019 to 2,375,000 as of December 31, 2020. Other revenues consist of revenue from regional sports and news channels (excluding intercompany charges or advertising sales on those channels), home shopping, late payment fees, video device sales, wire maintenance fees and other miscellaneous revenues.  The decrease during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the corresponding period in 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in late payment fees and home security revenue offset by an increase in the sale of video devices and regional sports and news revenue. 36 Operating costs and expenses . The increase in our operating costs and expenses, exclusive of items shown separately in the consolidated statements of operations, was attributable to the following (dollars in millions): Programming costs were approximately $11.4 billion and $11.3 billion, representing 38% and 39% of operating costs and expenses for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Programming costs consist primarily of costs paid to programmers for basic, digital, premium, video on demand, and pay-per-view programming. Programming costs increased in 2020 as a result of contractual rate adjustments, including renewals and increases in amounts paid for retransmission consent as well as an increase in video customers. The increase was offset by $163 million of estimated rebates from sports programming networks as a result of canceled sporting events due to COVID-19 and further benefited from a higher mix of lower cost video packages within our video customer base.  We expect programming rates per customer will continue to increase due to a variety of factors, including annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media and broadcast station groups consolidation, increased demands by owners of broadcast stations for payment for retransmission consent or linking carriage of other services to retransmission consent, and additional programming, particularly new services. We have been unable to fully pass these increases on to our customers and do not expect to be able to do so in the future without a potential loss of customers. Regulatory, connectivity and produced content decreased $183 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019 primarily due to deferred sports rights costs associated with the shortened 2020 baseball season and delayed start to the 2020-2021 basketball season as a result of COVID-19. Costs to service customers increased $195 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019 primarily due to higher labor costs resulting from COVID-19 related wage increases and flex time benefits along with 6.5% customer growth offset by a decrease in bad debt expense given the revenue write-off associated with the KAC program and better collections enhanced by government stimulus benefits. Mobile costs of $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, were comprised of mobile device costs and mobile service, customer acquisition and operating costs. The increase in other expense was attributable to the following (dollars in millions): Corporate costs increased primarily due to higher personnel costs.  Enterprise costs decreased primarily due to the sale of non-strategic assets in the third quarter of 2019. 37 Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $222 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019 primarily due to a decrease in depreciation and amortization as certain assets acquired in acquisitions become fully depreciated offset by an increase in depreciation as a result of more recent capital expenditures. Other operating expenses, net. The decrease in other operating expenses, net was attributable to the following (dollars in millions): The gain on sale of assets, net for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to a loss on sale of assets in 2019 is primarily due to a $42 million impairment of non-strategic assets incurred during 2019.  For more information, see Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Interest expense, net. Net interest expense increased by $51 million in 2020 from 2019 primarily due to an increase in weighted average debt outstanding of approximately $5.3 billion primarily as a result of the issuance of notes in 2020 and 2019 for general corporate purposes including stock buybacks and debt repayments offset by a decrease in weighted average interest rates. Loss on extinguishment of debt. Loss on extinguishment of debt of $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily represents losses recognized as a result of the redemption of CCO Holdings notes. For more information, see Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Loss on financial instruments, net. Gains and losses on financial instruments are recognized due to changes in the fair value of our interest rate and our cross currency derivative instruments, and the foreign currency remeasurement of the fixed-rate British pound sterling denominated notes (the “Sterling Notes”) into U.S. dollars. For more information, see Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Other pension costs, net. Other pension costs, net was consistent during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019. For more information, see Note 22 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Other expense, net. Other expense, net primarily represents equity losses on our equity investments.  Other expense, net also includes an impairment on equity investments of approximately $10 million and $121 million during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  For more information, see Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Income tax expense. We recognized income tax expense of $626 million and $439 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively . Income tax expense increased during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019 primarily as a result of higher pretax income offset by increased recognition of excess tax benefits resulting from share-based compensation during 2020.  For more information, see Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest for financial reporting purposes represents A/N’s portion of Charter Holdings’ net income based on its effective common unit ownership interest and the preferred dividend of $150 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.   For more information, see Note 11 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Net income attributable to Charter shareholders. Net income attributable to Charter shareholders was $3.2 billion and $1.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily as a result of the factors described above. 38 Use of Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow We use certain measures that are not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) to evaluate various aspects of our business. Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures and should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, net income attributable to Charter shareholders and net cash flows from operating activities reported in accordance with GAAP. These terms, as defined by us, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow are reconciled to net income attributable to Charter shareholders and net cash flows from operating activities, respectively, below. Adjusted EBITDA eliminates the significant non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital-intensive nature of our businesses as well as other non-cash or special items, and is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. However, this measure is limited in that it does not reflect the periodic costs of certain capitalized tangible and intangible assets used in generating revenues and our cash cost of financing. These costs are evaluated through other financial measures. Free cash flow is defined as net cash flows from operating activities, less capital expenditures and changes in accrued expenses related to capital expenditures. Management and Charter’s board of directors use Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow to assess our performance and our ability to service our debt, fund operations and make additional investments with internally generated funds. In addition, Adjusted EBITDA generally correlates to the leverage ratio calculation under our credit facilities or outstanding notes to determine compliance with the covenants contained in the facilities and notes (all such documents have been previously filed with the SEC). For the purpose of calculating compliance with leverage covenants, we use Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, excluding certain expenses paid by our operating subsidiaries to other Charter entities. Our debt covenants refer to these expenses as management fees, which fees were in the amount of $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and free cash flow to net income attributable to Charter shareholders and net cash flows from operating activities, respectively, is as follows (dollars in millions). 39 Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview We have significant amounts of debt.  The principal amount of our debt as of December 31, 2020 was $82.1 billion, consisting of  $10.2 billion of credit facility debt, $47.7 billion of investment grade senior secured notes and $24.3 billion of high-yield senior unsecured notes. Our business requires significant cash to fund principal and interest payments on our debt. Our projected cash needs and projected sources of liquidity depend upon, among other things, our actual results, and the timing and amount of our expenditures.  As we continue to grow our mobile services, we expect to continue to see negative mobile Adjusted EBITDA in 2021 as well as negative working capital impacts from the timing of device-related cash flows when we sell the handset or tablet to customers pursuant to equipment installment plans.  Free cash flow was $7.1 billion and $4.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  See table below for factors impacting free cash flow during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019.  As of December 31, 2020, the amount available under our credit facilities was approximately $4.7 billion and cash on hand was approximately $1.0 billion.  We expect to utilize free cash flow, cash on hand and availability under our credit facilities as well as future refinancing transactions to further extend the maturities of our obligations. The timing and terms of any refinancing transactions will be subject to market conditions among other considerations. Additionally, we may, from time to time, and depending on market conditions and other factors, use cash on hand and the proceeds from securities offerings or other borrowings to retire our debt through open market purchases, privately negotiated purchases, tender offers or redemption provisions. We believe we have sufficient liquidity from cash on hand, free cash flow and Charter Operating’s revolving credit facility as well as access to the capital markets to fund our projected cash needs. We continue to evaluate the deployment of our cash on hand and anticipated future free cash flow including to invest in our business growth and other strategic opportunities, including mergers and acquisitions as well as stock repurchases and dividends. Charter's target leverage of net debt to the last twelve months Adjusted EBITDA remains at 4 to 4.5 times Adjusted EBITDA, and up to 3.5 times Adjusted EBITDA at the consolidated first lien level. Our leverage ratio was 4.4 times Adjusted EBITDA as of December 31, 2020.  As Adjusted EBITDA grows, we expect to increase the total amount of our indebtedness to maintain leverage within Charter's target leverage range.  We have used the proceeds from such borrowings for general corporate purposes and to buyback shares of Charter Class A common stock and Charter Holdings common units.  During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, Charter purchased approximately 18.4 million and 16.7 million shares, respectively, of Charter Class A common stock for approximately $10.6 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively.  Since the beginning of its buyback program in September 2016 through the year ended December 31, 2020, Charter has purchased approximately 87.7 million shares of Class A common stock for approximately $34.6 billion. In December 2017, Charter and A/N entered into an amendment to the letter agreement (the "Letter Agreement") that requires A/N to sell to Charter or to Charter Holdings, on a monthly basis, a number of shares of Charter Class A common stock or Charter Holdings common units that represents a pro rata participation by A/N and its affiliates in any repurchases of shares of Charter Class A common stock from persons other than A/N effected by Charter during the immediately preceding calendar month, at a purchase price equal to the average price paid by Charter for the shares repurchased from persons other than A/N during such immediately preceding calendar month. A/N and Charter both have the right to terminate or suspend the pro rata repurchase arrangement on a prospective basis.  During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, Charter Holdings purchased from A/N 2.6 million and 2.3 million Charter Holdings common units, respectively, for approximately $1.5 billion and $885 million,  respectively. As of December 31, 2020, Charter had remaining board authority to purchase an additional $1.5 billion of Charter’s Class A common stock and/or Charter Holdings common units.  Although Charter expects to continue to buy back its common stock consistent with its leverage target range, Charter is not obligated to acquire any particular amount of common stock, and the timing of any purchases that may occur cannot be predicted and will largely depend on market conditions and other potential uses of capital.  Purchases may include open market purchases, tender offers or negotiated transactions. As possible acquisitions, swaps or dispositions arise, we actively review them against our objectives including, among other considerations, improving the operational efficiency, geographic clustering of assets, product development or technology capabilities of our business and achieving appropriate return targets, and we may participate to the extent we believe these possibilities present attractive opportunities.  However, there can be no assurance that we will actually complete any acquisitions, dispositions or system swaps, or that any such transactions will be material to our operations or results. 40 Recent Events In December 2020, Charter Operating and Charter Communications Operating Capital Corp. jointly issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.300% senior secured notes due 2032 at a price of 99.786% of the aggregate principal amount, an additional $650 million aggregate principal amount of 3.700% senior secured notes due 2051 at a price of 100.791% of the aggregate principal amount and $1.35 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.850% senior secured notes due 2061 at a price of 99.882% of the aggregate principal amount.  The net proceeds were used to pay related fees and expenses and for general corporate purposes, including funding buybacks of Charter Class A common stock and Charter Holdings common units as well as repaying certain indebtedness including $700 million of Time Warner Cable, LLC 4.125% notes due February 2021. In addition to the debt issued in December 2020 as described above, CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. jointly issued $8.65 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes at varying rates, prices and maturity dates in 2020, and Charter Operating and Charter Communications Operating Capital Corp. jointly issued $3.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes at varying rates, prices and maturity dates in 2020.  The net proceeds were used to pay related fees and expenses and for general corporate purposes, including funding buybacks of Charter Class A common stock and Charter Holdings common units as well as repaying certain indebtedness. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow increased $2.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the corresponding prior period due to the following (dollars in millions). Free cash flow was reduced by $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, due to mobile with impacts negatively affecting working capital, capital expenditures and Adjusted EBITDA.  The increase in free cash flow resulting from changes in working capital was favorably impacted by one-time unfavorable impacts in 2019 from bill cycle standardization efforts as well as one-time net favorable impacts in 2020 related to COVID-19, including deferral of payroll tax payments. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our payment obligations as of December 31, 2020 under our long-term debt and certain other contractual obligations and commitments (dollars in millions.) (a) The table presents maturities of long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2020.  Refer to Notes 9 and 21 to our accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for a description of our long-term debt and other contractual obligations and commitments. 41 (b) Interest payments on variable debt are estimated using amounts outstanding at December 31, 2020 and the average implied forward LIBOR rates applicable for the quarter during the interest rate reset based on the yield curve in effect at December 31, 2020.  Actual interest payments will differ based on actual LIBOR rates and actual amounts outstanding for applicable periods. (c) We lease certain facilities and equipment under noncancelable finance and operating leases.  Finance lease obligations represented $94 million of total finance and operating lease obligations as of December 31, 2020.  Lease and rental costs charged to expense for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were $452 million and $445 million, respectively. (d) We pay programming fees under multi-year contracts typically based on a flat fee per customer, which may be fixed for the term, or may in some cases escalate over the term.  Programming costs included in the accompanying statement of operations were approximately $11.4 billion and $11.3 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  Certain of our programming agreements are based on a flat fee per month or have guaranteed minimum payments.  The table sets forth the aggregate guaranteed minimum commitments under our programming contracts. (e) “Other” represents other guaranteed minimum commitments, including rights negotiated directly with content owners for distribution on company-owned channels or networks, commitments related to our role as an advertising and distribution sales agent for third party-owned channels or networks, commitments to our customer premise equipment and device vendors and contractual obligations related to third-party network augmentation. The following items are not included in the contractual obligations table because the obligations are not fixed and/or determinable due to various factors discussed below.  However, we incur these costs as part of our operations: • We rent utility poles used in our operations.  Generally, pole rentals are cancelable on short notice, but we anticipate that such rentals will recur.  Rent expense incurred for pole rental attachments for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $192 million and $180 million, respectively. • We pay franchise fees under multi-year franchise agreements based on a percentage of revenues generated from video service per year.  We also pay other franchise related costs, such as public education grants, under multi-year agreements.  Franchise fees and other franchise-related costs included in the accompanying statement of operations were $741 million and $750 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. • We have $367 million in letters of credit, of which $41 million is secured under the Charter Operating credit facility, primarily to our various casualty carriers as collateral for reimbursement of workers' compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. • Minimum pension funding requirements have not been presented in the table above as such amounts have not been determined beyond 2020.  We made no cash contributions to the qualified pension plans in 2020; however, we are permitted to make discretionary cash contributions to the qualified pension plans in 2021.  For the nonqualified pension plan, we contributed $3 million during 2020 and will continue to make contributions in 2021 to the extent benefits are paid. • In December 2020, we won a bidding process for $1.2 billion in phase I of the RDOF auction to further extend our broadband services in states where we currently operate.  We expect to fund our multi-billion dollar fiber-based build-out over a six to eight-year period. See "Part I. Item 1. Business — Commitments Related to the 2016 Merger with TWC and Acquisition of Bright House" for a listing of commitments as a result of the merger with TWC and acquisition of Bright House in 2016. Historical Operating, Investing, and Financing Activities Cash and Cash Equivalents. We held $998 million and $3.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  We also held $3 million and $66 million in restricted cash as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, representing escrowed funds of a consolidated variable interest entity.  See Note 6 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 1. Financial Statements.” Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased $2.8 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily due to an increase in Adjusted EBITDA of $1.7 billion and changes in working capital, excluding the change in accrued interest and accrued expenses related to capital expenditures, that used $1.2 billion less cash. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $8.2 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively.  The increase in cash used was primarily due to the purchase of spectrum wireless licenses and an increase in capital expenditures. 42 Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities increased $7.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to an increase in the purchase of treasury stock and noncontrolling interest and a decrease in the amount by which borrowings of long-term debt exceeded repayments. Capital Expenditures We have significant ongoing capital expenditure requirements.  Capital expenditures were $7.4 billion and $7.2 billion for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The increase was primarily due to higher line extensions driven by continued network expansion, including to rural areas, higher support capital as a result of facility improvements and investments in back office systems and mobile store build-outs offset by lower customer premise equipment. See the table below for more details. We currently expect 2021 cable capital expenditures to be relatively consistent or lower as a percentage of cable revenue versus 2020.  The actual amount of our capital expenditures in 2021 will depend on a number of factors including further spend related to product development and growth rates of both our residential and commercial businesses. Our capital expenditures are funded primarily from cash flows from operating activities and borrowings on our credit facility.  In addition, our accrued liabilities related to capital expenditures decreased $77 million and increased $55 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The following tables present our major capital expenditures categories in accordance with National Cable and Telecommunications Association (“NCTA”) disclosure guidelines for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.  These disclosure guidelines are not required disclosures under GAAP, nor do they impact our accounting for capital expenditures under GAAP (dollars in millions): (a) Customer premise equipment includes costs incurred at the customer residence to secure new customers and revenue generating units, including customer installation costs and customer premise equipment (e.g., digital receivers and cable modems). (b) Scalable infrastructure includes costs not related to customer premise equipment, to secure growth of new customers and revenue generating units, or provide service enhancements (e.g., headend equipment). (c) Line extensions include network costs associated with entering new service areas (e.g., fiber/coaxial cable, amplifiers, electronic equipment, make-ready and design engineering). (d) Upgrade/rebuild includes costs to modify or replace existing fiber/coaxial cable networks, including betterments. (e) Support capital includes costs associated with the replacement or enhancement of non-network assets due to technological and physical obsolescence (e.g., non-network equipment, land, buildings and vehicles). 43 Debt As of December 31, 2020, the accreted value of our total debt was approximately $82.8 billion, as summarized below (dollars in millions): 44 (a) The accreted values presented in the table above represent the principal amount of the debt adjusted for original issue discount or premium at the time of sale, deferred financing costs, and, in regards to debt assumed in acquisitions, fair value premium adjustments as a result of applying acquisition accounting plus the accretion of those amounts to the balance sheet date.  However, the amount that is currently payable if the debt becomes immediately due is equal to the principal amount of the debt. In regards to the Sterling Notes, the principal amount of the debt and any premium or discount is remeasured into US dollars as of each balance sheet date.  We have availability under our credit facilities of approximately $4.7 billion as of December 31, 2020. (b) In general, the obligors have the right to redeem all of the notes set forth in the above table in whole or in part at their option, beginning at various times prior to their stated maturity dates, subject to certain conditions, upon the payment of the outstanding principal amount (plus a specified redemption premium) and all accrued and unpaid interest. (c) Principal amount includes £625 million valued at $854 million as of December 31, 2020 using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2020. (d) Principal amount includes £650 million valued at $889 million as of December 31, 2020 using the exchange rate as of December 31, 2020. See Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further details regarding our outstanding debt and other financing arrangements, including certain information about maturities, covenants and restrictions related to such debt and financing arrangements. The agreements and instruments governing our debt and financing arrangements are complicated and you should consult such agreements and instruments which are filed with the SEC for more detailed information. At December 31, 2020, Charter Operating had a consolidated leverage ratio of approximately 2.8 to 1.0 and a consolidated first lien leverage ratio of 2.7 to 1.0.  Both ratios are in compliance with the ratios required by the Charter Operating credit facilities of 5.0 to 1.0 consolidated leverage ratio and 4.0 to 1.0 consolidated first lien leverage ratio.  A failure by Charter Operating to maintain the financial covenants would result in an event of default under the Charter Operating credit facilities and the debt of CCO Holdings.  See “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors — The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity.” Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 23 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Part II. Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards.