********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” section and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the risks and uncertainties described below actually occur or continue to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material but are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including, but not limited to, overall economic and industry conditions. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we presently deem immaterial may arise or become material and may negatively impact our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to the Nature of our Business and the Restaurant Industry Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business by decreasing sales and increasing costs. Food safety is our top priority, and we dedicate significant resources to ensuring that our guests enjoy safe, high-quality food products. However, even with strong preventative controls and interventions, food safety risks cannot be completely eliminated in every restaurant. Incidents of food-borne illnesses continue to occur in the restaurant industry and may result from the failure of restaurant employees or suppliers to follow our food safety policies and procedures, or from employees or guests entering our restaurant while ill and contaminating ingredients or surfaces. Although we monitor and audit compliance with our program, we cannot guarantee that each and every food item is safely and properly maintained from the start of the supply chain through guest consumption. Any report, legitimate or rumored, of food-borne illness such as E. coli, hepatitis A, norovirus or salmonella, or other food safety issue, such as food tampering or contamination, at one of our restaurants could adversely affect our reputation and have a negative impact on our sales. In addition, instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues that occur solely at competitors’ restaurants could result in negative publicity about the restaurant industry and adversely impact our sales. Social media has dramatically increased the speed with which negative publicity, including actual or perceived food safety incidents, is disseminated before there is any meaningful opportunity to investigate, respond to and address an issue. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, resulting in higher costs and lower margins. We may be more susceptible than our competitors to significant negative consequences from food safety incidents due to several highly publicized food safety incidents involving E. coli, C. perfringens bacteria and norovirus that were connected to a number of our restaurants between 2015 to 2018. These incidents and the related negative publicity had a significant negative impact on our sales and profitability for those years. Because of consumer perceptions of our restaurants in the wake of these incidents, any future food safety incidents associated with our restaurants—even incidents that would be considered minor at our competitors—may have a more significant negative impact on our sales and our ability to retain guests. In addition, we may be at a higher risk for food safety incidents than some competitors due to our greater use of fresh, unprocessed produce, handling of raw chicken in our restaurants, our reliance on employees cooking with traditional methods rather than automation, and our avoidance of frozen ingredients. The risk of illnesses associated with our food also may increase due to our delivery or catering businesses, in which our food is transported, stored and/or served in conditions that are not under our control. All of these factors could have an adverse impact on our ability to attract and retain guests, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Our digital business, which accounted for a significant portion of our 2022 total revenue, is subject to risks. In 2022, 39.4% of our food and beverage revenue was derived from digital orders, which includes third-party delivery and customer pickup in-restaurant and through our Chipotlanes. Approximately 19% of our 2022 food and beverage revenue consisted of delivery orders for which we are reliant on third-party delivery companies. Depending on which ordering platform a guest uses – our platform or the platform of a third-party delivery service – the delivery fee we collect from the guest may be less than the actual delivery cost, which has a negative impact on our profitability. In 2022, we implemented several menu price increases to partially offset the increases in delivery, labor and other costs; however, our higher menu prices may cause some guests to shift their purchases to other restaurants offered on the platform. These delivery companies maintain control over data regarding our guests who use their platform and over the guest experience. If a third-party delivery driver fails to make timely deliveries or fails to deliver the complete order, our guests may attribute the bad customer experience to Chipotle and could stop ordering from us. The ordering and payment platforms used by these third parties, our mobile app or our online ordering site has been and could again be interrupted by technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks or other factors, which could adversely impact sales through these channels and negatively impact our overall sales and reputation. If the third-party delivery companies we utilize increase their fees or give greater priority or promotions on their platforms to other restaurants, our delivery business and our sales may be negatively impacted. The delivery business has been consolidating and may continue to consolidate, which may give third-party delivery companies more leverage in negotiating the terms and pricing of contracts, which in turn could negatively impact our profits from this channel. 9 The restaurant industry is highly competitive. If we are not able to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The restaurant industry is highly competitive with respect to taste preferences, price, food quality and selection, customer service, brand reputation, digital engagement, advertising and promotional initiatives, and the location, attractiveness and maintenance of restaurants. We also compete with non-traditional market participants, such as convenience stores, grocery stores, coffee shops, meal kit delivery services, and “ghost” or “dark” kitchens, where meals are prepared at separate takeaway premises rather than a restaurant. Competition from food delivery services, which promote a wide variety of restaurant options on their sites, also has increased in recent years, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic. Increased competition could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability and development plans. If consumer or dietary preferences change, if our marketing efforts are unsuccessful, or if our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurant outlets, our business could be adversely affected. We continue to believe that our commitment to higher-quality and responsibly sourced ingredients resonates with guests and gives us a competitive advantage; however, many of our competitors also make claims related to the quality of their ingredients and lack of artificial flavors, colors and preservatives. The increasing use of these claims by competitors, regardless of the accuracy of such claims, may lessen our differentiation and make it more difficult for us to compete. If we are unable to continue to maintain our distinctiveness and compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If w e do not continue to persuade consumers of the benefits of paying higher prices for our higher- quality food, our sales and results of operations could be hurt . Our success depends in large part on our ability to persuade consumers that food made with ingredients that were raised or grown according to our Food With Integrity principles is worth paying a higher price relative to prices of some of our competitors, particularly quick-service restaurants. Under our Food With Integrity principles, for example, animals must be responsibly raised, and the milk in our sour cream, cheese and queso must come from cows that have not been treated with rBGH, practices which typically are more costly than conventional farming. If we are not able to successfully persuade consumers that consuming food made in accordance with our Food With Integrity principles is better for them and the environment, or if consumers are not willing to pay the prices we charge, our sales could be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our results of operations. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the immediacy of social media could have a material adverse impact on our business. Social media and internet-based communications, including video-sharing, social networking, and gaming and messaging platforms, give users immediate access to a broad audience. These platforms have dramatically increased the speed and scale of dissemination and accessibility of information, including negative publicity related to food safety incidents and negative guest and employee experiences. Accurate and inaccurate or misleading information can be widely disseminated before there is any meaningful opportunity to respond or address an issue. As a result of our highly publicized food safety incidents in 2015 – 2018, negative social media posts about our business may generate a disproportionately negative response than would be experienced by other companies without a similar history. It is impossible for us to fully predict or control social media backlash, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy. Use of social media is an important element of our marketing efforts. New social media and internet-based communication platforms are developing rapidly, and we need to continuously innovate and evolve our marketing strategies to maintain our brand relevance and broad appeal to guests. We also continue to invest in other digital marketing initiatives to reach our guests and build their awareness of, engagement with, and loyalty to us, including our “Chipotle Rewards” loyalty program. These initiatives may not be successful, resulting in expenses incurred without the benefit of higher revenues, increased customer engagement or brand recognition. Other risks associated with our use of social media and internet-based communication platforms include association with influencers or online celebrities who become embroiled in controversy, platforms and business partners who experience challenges, improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about us, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. The inappropriate use of social media by our guests or employees could lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation. 10 Risks Related to Human Capital If we are not able to hire, develop and retain qualified restaurant employees and/or appropriately plan our workforce, our growth plan and profitability could be adversely affected. We rely on our restaurant-level employees to consistently provide high-quality food and positive experiences to our guests. In addition, our ability to continue to open new restaurants depends on us attracting, hiring, developing and retaining high-quality employees to manage and work in our restaurants. Maintaining appropriate staffing in our restaurants requires precise workforce planning, which planning has become more complex due to predictive scheduling laws (also called “fair workweek” or “secure scheduling”) and “just cause” termination legislation in certain geographic areas where we operate, and the so-called “great resignation” trend. The market for qualified talent continues to be competitive and we must ensure that we continue to offer competitive wages, benefits and workplace conditions to retain qualified employees. We have experienced and may continue to experience challenges in hiring and retaining restaurant employees and in maintaining full restaurant staffing in various locations, which has resulted in longer wait times for guest orders, temporary closures of the digital make line and decreased employee satisfaction. In one instance, we permanently closed a restaurant due to lack of necessary staff after a prolonged recruiting effort. A shortage of qualified candidates who meet all legal work authorization requirements, failure to hire and retain new restaurant employees in a timely manner or higher than expected turnover levels could affect our ability to open new restaurants, grow sales at existing restaurants or meet our labor cost objectives. In addition, failure to adequately monitor and proactively respond to employee dissatisfaction could lead to poor guest satisfaction, higher turnover, litigation and unionization efforts, which could negatively impact our ability to meet our growth targets. We have experienced labor union efforts to organize groups of our employees from time to time and, if successful, those organizational efforts may decrease our operational flexibility and disrupt our normal operations, which could adversely affect our business. If we fail to comply with applicable federal, state and local employment and labor laws and regulations, it could have a material, adverse impact on our business. Various federal, state and local employment and labor laws and regulations govern our relationships with our employees, and similar laws and regulations apply to our operations outside of the U.S. These laws and regulations relate to matters such as employment discrimination, wage and hour laws, requirements to provide and document meal and rest periods or other benefits, family leave mandates, requirements regarding working conditions and accommodations to certain employees, citizenship or work authorization and related requirements, insurance and workers’ compensation rules, healthcare laws and anti-discrimination and anti-harassment laws. We incur substantial costs to comply with these laws and regulations and non-compliance could expose us to significant liabilities. For example, a number of lawsuits previously have been filed against us alleging violations of federal and state laws regarding employee wages and payment of overtime, meal and rest breaks, employee classification, employee record-keeping and related practices with respect to our employees. We incur legal costs to defend these cases, and we could incur losses from these and similar cases, and the amount of such losses or costs could be material. In addition, several jurisdictions, including New York City, Philadelphia, Chicago, Seattle, Oregon, San Francisco, San Jose and Berkeley have implemented fair workweek or “secure scheduling” legislation, which impose complex requirements related to scheduling for certain restaurant and retail employees, and additional jurisdictions are considering similar legislation. Several jurisdictions also have implemented sick pay and paid time off legislation, which requires employers to provide paid time off to employees, and “just cause” termination legislation, which restricts companies’ ability to terminate employees or reduce employees’ hours unless they can prove “just cause” or a “bona fide economic reason” for the termination or reduction in hours. All of these regulations impose additional obligations on us and our failure to comply with any of these regulations could subject us to penalties and other legal liabilities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations and potentially cause us to close or reduce operating hours of some restaurants in these jurisdictions. For example, we previously reported the settlement of a complaint alleging that we violated New York City’s Fair Workweek law and Earned Safe and Sick Time Act. We also have been and are undergoing several audits of our compliance with employment law requirements in other cities, which could result in additional liabilities. Our liability exposure for these employment laws and regulations may be higher than our restaurant peers because we are one of the largest restaurant companies that owns and operates all our restaurants, while most of our restaurant peers franchise some or a significant portion of their operations. 11 Increases in the cost of labor could adversely impact our business and profitability. Our business has been and could continue to be adversely impacted by increases in labor costs caused by factors such as federal, state and local laws governing matters such as minimum wages, meal and rest breaks and changes to eligibility for overtime pay; regulations regarding scheduling and benefits; increased health care and workers’ compensation insurance costs; higher wages and costs of other benefits necessary to attract, hire and retain high-quality employees with the right skill sets in a highly competitive job market; and increased wages, benefits and costs related to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, state and local laws such as the recently passed California AB 257 (the “FAST Act”) may require wage increases and working hour and working condition standards that would restrict our flexibility to respond to market conditions and increase our costs without corresponding benefits. Although the FAST Act is stayed pending a referendum in 2024, it is possible that ultimately it will be enforced, and that other jurisdictions will pass similar laws . Our ability to offset higher labor costs by increasing menu prices depends on the willingness of our guests to pay the higher prices and the perceived value of our meals relative to competitors. If competitive or inflationary pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting higher labor costs by increased menu prices, our profitability may decline. Risks Related to IT Systems, Cybersecurity and Data Privacy Breaches or other unauthorized access, theft, modification or destruction of guest and/or employee personal, confidential or other material information that is stored in our systems or by third parties on our behalf could adversely affect our business. We could experience a cybersecurity or privacy incident, which generally refers to any intentional attack or an unintentional event that results in unauthorized access to personal information or systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information or intellectual property, or a ransomware attack, which is a type of malicious software that infects a computer and restricts users' access to it until a ransom is paid. Any such incident that compromises the information of our guests or employees or disrupts our business operations could result in widespread negative publicity, damage to our reputation, a loss of guests, disruption of our business and legal liabilities. If any of our critical suppliers is the target of a cybersecurity or ransomware attack, we could experience a significant disruption in our supply chain and possibly shortages of key ingredients. In the past year, a ransomware attack on one of our key vendors required us to reperform manual processes, which resulted in delays and reduced efficiencies. As our reliance on technology has grown, the scope and severity of risks posed to our systems from cyber threats has increased. In addition, as more business activities have shifted online and more people are working remotely, we have experienced an increase in cybersecurity threats and attempts to breach our security networks. The techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. We continuously monitor and develop our information technology networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, address and mitigate the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, malware and other events that could have a security impact; however, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective. The majority of our restaurant sales are made by credit or debit cards, and we also maintain personal information regarding our employees and guests, and confidential information about our guests and suppliers. We segment our card data environment and employ a cyber security protection program that is based on proven industry frameworks, including cyber security techniques, tactics and procedures such as the deployment of a robust set of security controls, continuous monitoring and detection programs, network protections, vendor selection criteria, secure software development programs and ongoing employee training, awareness and incident response preparedness. In addition, we continuously scan our environment for any vulnerabilities, perform penetration testing, engage third parties to assess effectiveness of our security measures and collaborate with members of the cyber security community. However, there are no assurances that such programs will be effective in detecting or preventing cybersecurity breaches. From time to time we have been, and likely will continue to be, the target of cyber and other security threats. For example, some of our guests have experienced account takeover fraud, in which guests use the same log in credentials on multiple websites and, when a third party fraudulently obtains those credentials from one website, they can gain unauthorized access to the guests’ accounts on our website and charge food orders to the credit card linked to their account (without accessing credit card data). We may become subject to legal proceedings or governmental investigations for purportedly fraudulent transactions arising out of the actual or alleged theft of data or if guest or employee information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately. Any such claim or proceeding, or any adverse publicity resulting from such an event, may have a material adverse effect on our business and we may incur significant remediation costs. 12 We may incur increased costs to comply with privacy and data protection laws and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to government enforcement actions, private litigation and adverse publicity. Complex local, state, federal and international laws and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data. These privacy and data protection laws and regulations are quickly evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations and enforcement. For example, the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) requires companies to meet certain requirements regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and transfer and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves, and failure to meet the GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of annual worldwide revenue. Additionally, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (“CCPA”) provides a private right of action for data breaches and requires companies that process the personal information of California residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices, allow consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties and to request deletion of personal information (subject to certain exceptions). Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut and Utah have enacted similar data privacy legislation that will take effect in 2023, and several other states and countries are considering expanding or passing privacy laws in the near term. If we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to security breaches of our or a third party’s information technology systems or fail to properly respond to or honor consumer requests under any of the foregoing privacy laws, we could experience reputational damage, adverse publicity, loss of consumer confidence, reduced sales and profits, complications in executing our growth initiatives and regulatory and legal risk, including regulatory fines and penalties, and in some cases civil liabilities where individuals have been provided with a private right of action. Compliance with the current and future privacy and data protection laws can be costly and time-consuming and there is no assurance that our compliance efforts will be successful in preventing breaches or data loss. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject relating to personal data, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use or other processing, could result in enforcement actions and regulatory investigations against us, claims for damages by customers and other affected individuals, fines or damage to our brand reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance and business. The regulatory environment related to privacy and data security is changing at an ever-increasing pace, with new and increasingly rigorous requirements applicable to our business. In addition, the issues regulated by privacy laws (such as advertising and marketing, children, biometric, employee, and health related information) have expanded, as have the number of city, state, federal and international governmental bodies and agencies that have recently passed or are currently considering privacy legislation or regulatory rulemaking. Where not limited by preemption, many states have passed or are considering adopting stricter versions of federal privacy laws (e.g., state level statutes similar to the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (“TCPA”), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 (“COPPA”)). Private service providers also have implemented mandatory privacy requirements impacting businesses, like Chipotle, that wish to utilize services available on their platforms. Taken together, Chipotle faces rapidly increasing compliance costs in order to modify its operations and business practices to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other requirements. We rely heavily on information technology systems and failures or interruptions in our IT systems could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and/or result in the loss of guests or employees. We rely heavily on information technology systems, including the point-of-sale and payment processing system in our restaurants, technologies supporting our digital and delivery business, technologies that trace ingredients back to suppliers and growers and manage our supply chain, our rewards program, technologies that facilitate marketing initiatives, employee engagement and payroll processing, and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business and coordinate the procurement, production, distribution, safety and sale of our products depends significantly on the availability, reliability and security of these systems. Many of these critical systems are provided and managed by third parties, and we are reliant on these third-party providers to implement protective measures that ensure the security and availability of their systems. Although we have operational safeguards in place, these safeguards may not be effective in preventing the failure of these third-party systems or platforms to operate effectively and be available. Failures may be caused by various factors, including power outages, catastrophic events, physical theft, computer and network failures, inadequate or ineffective redundancy, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems or platforms, flaws in third-party software or services, errors or improper use by our employees or the third-party service providers. If any of our critical IT systems were to become unreliable, unavailable, compromised or otherwise fail, and we were unable to recover in a timely manner, we could experience an interruption in our operations that could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. 13 Our inability or failure to execute a comprehensive business continuity plan at our restaurant support centers following a disaster or force majeure event could have a material adverse impact on our business. Many of our corporate systems and processes and corporate support for our restaurant operations are centralized at one location. We have disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans in place to address crisis-level events, including hurricanes and other natural disasters, and back up and off-site locations for recovery of electronic and other forms of data and information, and the COVID-19 pandemic provided a limited test of our ability to manage our business remotely. However, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data, inability to perform vital corporate functions, tardiness in required reporting and compliance, failures to adequately support field operations and other breakdowns in normal communication and operating procedures that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and exposure to administrative and other legal claims. In addition, these threats are constantly evolving, which increases the difficulty of accurately and timely predicting, planning for and protecting against the threat. As a result, our disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans security may not adequately address all threats we face or protect us from loss. Risks Related to Supply Chain Increases in the costs of ingredient and other materials, including increases caused by inflation, global conflicts, the COVID-19 pandemic and climate risks, could adversely affect our results of operations. Supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of ingredients and supplies that are critical to our restaurant operations. The markets for some of our ingredients, such as beef, avocado and other produce, are particularly volatile due to factors beyond our control such as limited sources, seasonal shifts, climate conditions, recent inflationary trends, military and geopolitical conflicts and industry demand, including as a result of animal disease outbreaks, international commodity markets, food safety concerns, product recalls and government regulation. In addition, for certain of our ingredients and other materials, we have a limited number of suppliers and distributors. We remain in regular contact with our major suppliers and to date we have not experienced significant disruptions in our supply chain; however, in 2022 costs for certain supplies and ingredients, such as avocados, packaging, dairy, tortillas, beef and chicken increased materially and rapidly, and inflationary pressures could continue and/or spread to more categories as inflation increases continue across the global supply chain . Our efforts to mitigate future price risk through forward contracts, strong partnerships with key suppliers, careful planning and other activities may not fully insulate us from increases in commodity costs, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability. We also could be adversely impacted by price increases specific to meats raised in accordance with our Responsibly Raised animal welfare criteria, and ingredients grown in accordance with our Food With Integrity specifications, the markets for which are generally smaller and more concentrated than the markets for conventionally raised or grown ingredients. Any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as chicken, beef, dairy (for cheese, sour cream and queso), avocados, beans, rice, tomatoes and pork, would have a particularly adverse effect on our operating results. If the cost of one or more ingredients significantly increases, we may choose to temporarily suspend serving menu items that use those ingredients, such as guacamole or one of our proteins, rather than pay the increased cost. Any such changes to our available menu may negatively impact our restaurant traffic and could adversely impact our sales and brand. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of ingredients could adversely affect our operating results. Our business is dependent on frequent and consistent deliveries of ingredients that comply with our Food With Integrity specifications. We may experience shortages, delays or interruptions in the supply of ingredients and other supplies to our restaurants due to inclement weather, natural disasters, labor issues or other operational disruptions at our suppliers, distributors or transportation providers, or other conditions beyond our control. In addition, we have a single or a limited number of suppliers for some of our ingredients, including salt, certain cuts of beef, tomatoes, tortillas and adobo . Although we believe we have potential alternative suppliers and sufficient reserves of ingredients, shortages or interruptions in our supply of ingredients could adversely affect our financial results. 14 Legal and Regulatory Risks A violation of Chipotle’s Deferred Prosecution Agreement could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. In April 2020, Chipotle signed a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “DPA”) to settle an official criminal investigation conducted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Central District of California, in conjunction with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s Office of Criminal Investigations (collectively, the “DOJ”), into food safety matters that occurred in our restaurants dating back to January 1, 2013. Pursuant to the DPA, the DOJ filed a two-count Class A Misdemeanor Information in the United States District Court for the Central District of California charging Chipotle with adulterating and causing food to be adulterated within the meaning of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act while such food was held for sale. Under the DPA, Chipotle paid a fine and is required to maintain a comprehensive compliance program designed to ensure Chipotle complies with all applicable federal and state food safety laws. If Chipotle is in full compliance with all of its obligations under the DPA at the conclusion of the three-year deferred prosecution term, which ends in April 2023, the DOJ agreed to move to dismiss the two-count Information filed against Chipotle. Chipotle owns and operates over 3,100 restaurants and we dedicate substantial resources to our food safety program; however, even with strong preventative controls and interventions, food safety risks cannot be completely eliminated in any restaurant. Food safety risks may arise due to possible failures by restaurant employees or suppliers to follow food safety policies and procedures, employees or guests coming to the restaurant while ill or contaminated ingredients in the food we sell. If Chipotle is found to have breached the terms of the DPA, the DOJ may elect to prosecute, or bring a civil action against us for conduct alleged in the DPA’s Statement of Facts, which could result in additional fines, penalties, and have material adverse impacts on our results of operations and adversely affect our brand and reputation. We could be party to litigation or other legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and reputation. We have been and likely will continue to be subject to litigation and other legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business. These legal proceedings may involve claims brought by employees, guests, government agencies, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. These legal proceedings may involve allegations of illegal, unfair or inconsistent employment practices, including those governing wage and hour, employment of minors, discrimination, harassment, wrongful termination, and vacation and family leave laws; food safety issues including food-borne illness, food contamination and adverse health effects from consumption of our food products; data security or privacy breaches; guest discrimination; personal injury in our restaurants; marketing and advertising claims, including claims that our Food With Integrity or other sustainability claims are misleading or inaccurate; infringement of patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights; violation of the federal securities laws or other concerns. In 2022, a number of lawsuits were filed against us and governmental audits initiated alleging violations of federal and state employment laws, including wage and hour claims, and we could be involved in similar or even more significant litigation and legal proceedings in the future. Even if the allegations against us in current or future legal matters are unfounded or we ultimately are held not liable, the costs to defend ourselves may be significant and the litigation may subject us to substantial settlements, fines, penalties or judgments against us and may divert management's attention away from operating our business, all of which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation also may generate negative publicity, regardless of whether the allegations are valid, or we ultimately are not liable, which could damage our reputation, and adversely impact our sales and our relationship with our employees and guests. 15 We are subject to extensive laws, government regulation, and other legal requirements and our failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our operational efficiencies, ability to attract and retain talent and results of operations. Our business is subject to extensive federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including those relating to:  preparation, sale and labeling of food, including regulations of the Food and Drug Administration, which oversees the safety of the entire food system, including inspections and mandatory food recalls, menu labeling and nutritional content;  employment practices and working conditions, including minimum wage rates, wage and hour practices, fair workweek/secure scheduling and “just cause” legislation, employment of minors, discrimination, harassment, classification of employees, paid and family leave, workplace safety, immigration and overtime among others;  data privacy and standards for the protection of personal information, including social security numbers, financial information (including credit card numbers), and health information, including state laws such as CPRA and CCPA in California as well as new privacy-related legislation in Virginia, Colorado, Connecticut, Utah and a growing number of other states, privacy laws aimed at protecting children, such as TCPA and COPPA, and international laws such as GDPR in the European Union and PIPEDA in Canada, and payment card industry standards and requirements;  health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and the sale of alcoholic beverages;  building and zoning requirements, including state and local licensing and regulation governing the design and operation of facilities and land use;  public accommodations and safety conditions, including the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations, online resources and other areas;  environmental matters, such as emissions and air quality, water consumption, the discharge, storage, handling, release, and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, and local ordinances restricting the types of packaging we can use in our restaurants; and  public company compliance, disclosure and governance matters, including accounting and tax regulations, SEC and NYSE disclosure requirements. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and future new laws or changes in these laws or regulations that impose additional requirements, can be costly. Any failure or perceived failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Risks Related to Our Growth and Business Strategy If we are unable to meet our projections for new restaurant openings, or efficiently maintain the attractiveness of our existing restaurants, our profitability could suffer. Our growth depends on our ability to open new restaurants and operate them profitably. Since 2020, COVID-19 related disruptions in the global supply chain have increased the cost and decreased the availability of construction materials and restaurant equipment needed to open and operate our restaurants, which can delay the openings of new restaurants. In addition, we incur substantial startup expenses each time we open a new restaurant, and it can take up to 24 months to ramp up the sales and profitability of a new restaurant, during which time costs may be higher as we train new employees and build up a customer base. If we are unable to build the customer base that we expect or fail to overcome the higher startup expenses associated with new restaurants, our new restaurants may not be as profitable as our existing restaurants. Our ability to open and profitably operate new restaurants also is subject to various risks, such as the identification and availability of desirable locations; the negotiation of acceptable lease terms; the need to obtain all required governmental permits (including zoning approvals and liquor licenses) and comply with other regulatory requirements; the availability of capable contractors and subcontractors; increases in the cost and decreases in the availability of labor and building material; changes in weather, natural disasters, pandemics or other acts of God that could delay construction and adversely affect guest traffic; our ability to hire and train qualified management and restaurant employees; and general economic and business conditions. At each potential location, we compete with other restaurants and retail businesses for desirable development sites, construction contractors, management personnel, hourly employees and other resources. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, we could face increased costs and lower than anticipated sales and earnings in future periods. In addition, in an effort to increase same-restaurant sales and improve our operating performance, we continue to improve our existing restaurants through remodels, upgrades and regular upkeep. If the costs associated with remodels, upgrades or regular upkeep are higher than anticipated, restaurants are closed for remodeling for longer periods than planned or remodeled restaurants do not perform as expected, we may not realize our projected desired return on investment, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. 16 Our failure to effectively manage and support our growth could have a negative adverse effect on our business and financial results. As of December 31, 2022, we owned and operated over 3,100 Chipotle restaurants and we plan to open a significant number of new restaurants in the next several years. Our existing restaurant management systems, back office technology systems and processes, financial and management controls, information systems and personnel may not be adequate to support our continued growth. To effectively manage a larger number of restaurants, we may need to upgrade and expand our infrastructure and information systems, automate more processes that currently are manual or require manual intervention and hire, train and retrain restaurant employees and corporate support staff, all of which may result in increased costs and at least temporary inefficiencies. We also place a lot of importance on our culture, which we believe has been an important contributor to our success, and as we continue to grow it may be increasingly difficult to maintain our culture. Our failure to sufficiently invest in our infrastructure and information systems and maintain our strong staffing and culture could harm our brand and operating results. A failure to recruit, develop and retain effective leaders or the loss or shortage of personnel with key capacities and skills could impact our strategic growth plans and jeopardize our ability to meet our business performance expectations and growth targets. Our ability to continue to grow our business depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of our executive leadership team and other key management personnel. Changes in senior management could expose us to significant changes in strategic direction and initiatives. A failure to maintain appropriate organizational capacity and capability to support our strategic initiatives or to build adequate bench strength with key skillsets required for seamless succession of leadership, could jeopardize our ability to meet our business performance expectations and growth targets. If we are unable to attract, develop, retain and incentivize sufficiently experienced and capable management personnel, our business and financial results may suffer. The market price of our common stock may be more volatile than the market price of our peers. We believe the market price of our common stock generally has traded at a higher price-earnings ratio than stocks of most of our peer companies as well as the overall market, which typically has reflected market expectations for higher future operating results. At any given point in time, our price-earnings ratio may trade at more than twice the price-earnings ratio of the S&P 500. Also, the trading market for our common stock has been volatile at times, including as a result of adverse publicity events. As a result, if we fail to meet market expectations for our operating results in the future, any resulting decline in the price of our common stock could be significant. Risks Related to Environmental, Social and Governance Factors If we are unable to achieve our social and environmental sustainability goals, our reputation and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition to financial performance, companies increasingly are being judged by their performance on a variety of environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) factors.  Investors, governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, including the SEC, the NYSE and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”), have increasingly focused on social and environmental sustainability achievements and disclosures, including with respect to climate change, energy use, packaging and waste, human rights, sustainable supply chain practices, animal health and welfare and water use.  Our mission is to Cultivate a Better World by serving responsibly sourced, classically-cooked, real food with wholesome ingredients without artificial colors, flavors or preservative. We strive to be a leader in responsible and sustainable food production and, in November 2021, we announced that we had set science-based targets validated by the Science Based Targets initiative to reduce absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas emissions 50% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. Execution of our mission and achievement of these goals are subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control and may prove to be more difficult and costly than we anticipate. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to execute on our mission and achieve our ESG goals within currently projected costs and expected timeframes; unforeseen design, operational and technological difficulties; the outcome of research efforts and future technology developments; the success of our collaboration with our suppliers and other third parties; and competitive pressures. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute on our mission and fully achieve our ESG goals. Failure to achieve our goals could damage our reputation and relationships with our guests, investors and other stakeholders, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and stock price. 17 Climate change and volatile adverse weather conditions could adversely affect our restaurant sales or results of operations. There is growing concern that climate change and global warming has caused and may continue to cause more severe, volatile weather or extended droughts, which could increase the frequency and duration of weather impacts on our operations. Adverse weather conditions have in the past and may again impact guest traffic at our restaurants and, in more severe cases such as hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires or other natural disasters, cause temporary restaurant closures, all of which negatively impact our restaurant sales. In addition, our supply chain is subject to increased costs caused by the effects of climate change, greenhouse gases and diminishing energy and water resources. Increasing weather volatility and changes in global weather patterns can reduce crop size and crop quality, or destroy crops altogether, which could result in decreased availability or higher pricing for our produce and other ingredients. We may be forced to source ingredients from new geographic regions, which could impact quality and increase costs. These factors are beyond our control and, in many instances, unpredictable. Climate change and government regulation relating to climate change also could result in construction delays for new restaurants and interruptions to the availability or increases in the cost of utilities. The ongoing and long-term costs of these impacts related to climate change and other sustainability-related issues could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we are not able to mitigate them. General Risk Factors Economic and business factors that are largely beyond our control may adversely affect consumer behavior and the results of our operations. Restaurant dining generally is dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, which may be affected by general economic conditions that are beyond our control. Increasing or prolonged high inflation, international, domestic and regional economic conditions, consumer income levels, financial market volatility, a slow or stagnant pace of economic growth, mass layoffs, rising energy costs, rising interest rates, social unrest, military conflicts and governmental, political and budget concerns or divisions may have a negative effect on consumer confidence and discretionary spending. The rapid increase in inflation during 2022 and widespread concern about a prolonged economic downturn may lead consumers to decrease their discretionary spending. A significant decrease in our guest traffic or average transactions would negatively impact our financial performance. The actual or perceived threat of a pandemic or communicable disease, terrorist attack, mass shooting, heightened security requirements, including cybersecurity, or a failure to protect information systems for critical infrastructure, such as the electrical grid and telecommunications systems, could harm our operations, the economy or consumer confidence generally. Any of the above factors or other unfavorable changes in business and economic conditions affecting our guests could increase our costs, reduce traffic in our restaurants or limit our ability to increase pricing, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our sales, financial condition and results of operations. These factors also could cause us to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, close restaurants or delay remodeling of our existing restaurant locations. Further, poor economic conditions may force nearby businesses to shut down, which could reduce traffic to our restaurants or cause our restaurant locations to be less attractive. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate significantly, including due to factors that are not in our control. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate significantly and could fail to meet investors’ expectations for various reasons, including :  neg ative publicity about the safety of our food, employment-related issues, litigation or other issues involving our restaurants;  fluctuations in supply costs, particularly for our most significant ingredients, and our inability to offset the higher cost with price increases without adversely impacting guest traffic;  labor availability and wages of restaurant management and employees;  increases in marketing or promotional expenses;  the timing of new restaurant openings and related revenues and expenses, and the operating costs at newly opened restaurants;  the impact of inclement weather and natural disasters, such as freezes and droughts, which could decrease guest traffic and increase the costs of ingredients;  the amount and timing of stock-based compensation;  litigation, settlement costs and related legal expenses;  tax expenses, asset impairment charges and non-operating costs; and  variations in general economic conditions, including the impact of rising inflation and the impact of rising interest rates on consumer demand trends . As a result of any of these factors, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Average restaurant sales or comparable restaurant sales in any particular future period may decrease.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

You should read the following discussion together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” This section of the Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons of 2022 to 2021. Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons of 2021 and 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 on our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. The discussion contains forward-looking statements involving risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause our results to differ materially from expectations. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Factors that might cause such differences include those described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this report. Overview As of December 31, 2022, we operated 3,129 Chipotle restaurants throughout the United States, 53 international Chipotle restaurants, and five non-Chipotle restaurants. We manage our U.S. operations based on eight regions and have aggregated our operations to one reportable segment. Throughout “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” we commonly discuss the following key operating metrics which we believe will drive our financial results and long-term growth model. W e believe these metrics are useful to investors because management uses these metrics to assess the growth of our business and the effectiveness of our marketing and operational strategies:  Comparable restaurant sales  Restaurant operating costs as a percentage of total revenue  New restaurant openings 2022 Financial Highlights, year-over-year:  Total revenue increased 14.4% to $8.6 billion  Comparable restaurant sales increased 8.0%  Diluted earnings per share was $32.04, a 39.9% increase from $22.90, which includes a $0.74 after-tax impact from expenses related to certain legal proceedings, expenses related to the 2018 performance share COVID-19 related modification, corporate restructuring costs, employee separation costs, restaurant asset impairment and closure costs, and other costs, partially offset by an unrealized gain on investments Sales Trends. Comparable restaurant sales increased 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase is primarily attributable to an increase in menu prices and, to a lesser extent, an increase in transactions, partially offset by a decrease in group size from the continued resurgence of our in-restaurant business. Comparable restaurant sales represent the change in period-over-period total revenue for restaurants in operation for at least 13 full calendar months . In-restaurant sales increased 26.4% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to menu price increases, a shift in consumer behaviors related to COVID-19 from digital sales to in-restaurant sales across the country, and new restaurant openings. In-restaurant sales represent food and beverage revenue generated on-premise and include revenue deferrals associated with Chipotle Rewards. Digital sales represented 39.4% of food and beverage revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 45.0% of food and beverage revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease in digital sales as a percentage of food and beverage revenue is primarily related to the increase of in-restaurant sales discussed above. Digital sales represent food and beverage revenue generated through the Chipotle website, Chipotle app or third-party delivery aggregators and includes revenue deferrals associated with Chipotle Rewards. We updated the definition of digital sales in the first quarter of 2022 to include revenue deferrals related to Chipotle Rewards. We made this change to allow for a reconciliation to total food and beverage revenue as we now present in-restaurant sales. Restaurant Operating Costs . During the year ended December 31, 2022, our restaurant operating costs (food, beverage and packaging; labor; occupancy; and other operating costs) were 76.1% of total revenue, a decrease from 77.4% during the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease was driven primarily by sales leverage and, to a lesser extent, lower delivery expenses associated with lower volume of delivery transactions, partially offset by wage inflation and higher commodity inflation primarily from avocados, packaging, dairy, beef and chicken. 22 Restaurant Development. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we opened 236 new restaurants, which included 202 restaurants with a Chipotlane. We expect to open approximately 255-285 new restaurants in 2023 (including 10 to 15 relocations), which assumes utility, construction, permit and material supply delays do not worsen. We expect that at least 80% of our new restaurants will include a Chipotlane. Cultivate Next Fund . In April 2022 we announced the formation of the Cultivate Next Fund, a venture that will make early-stage investments into strategically aligned companies that further our mission to Cultivate a Better World. The venture fund has an initial size of $50.0 million and will be financed almost entirely by Chipotle. As of December 31, 2022, we have made $11.0 million in investments through this fund. Restaurant Activity The following table details restaurant unit data for the years indicated. Results of Operations Our results of operations as a percentage of total revenue and period-over-period change are discussed in the following section. Revenue The significant factors contributing to the total revenue increase for the year ended December 31 , 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, were comparable restaurant sales increases and new restaurant openings. Total revenue increased due to comparable restaurant sales increase of $568.6 million and restaurants not yet in the comparable base of $519.4 million, of which $210.5 million was due to restaurants opened in 2022. Food, Beverage and Packaging Costs Food, beverage and packaging costs decreased as a percentage of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to the benefit of menu price increases. This decrease was partially offset by inflation across the menu, primarily related to higher costs for avocados, packaging, dairy, beef and chicken. 23 Labor Costs Labor costs increased as a percentage of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to wage inflation, mostly offset by sales leverage. Occupancy Costs Occupancy costs decreased as a percentage of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to sales leverage, partially offset by increased rent expense associated with new restaurants. Other Operating Costs Other operating costs include, among other items, marketing and promotional costs, delivery expense, bank and credit card processing fees, restaurant utilities, technology costs, and maintenance costs. Other operating costs decreased as a percentage of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to lower delivery expenses associated with lower volume of delivery transactions and, to a lesser extent, sales leverage. These decreases were partially offset by higher costs across several expenses, most notably higher utilities primarily related to inflation in natural gas and electricity and higher maintenance costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses decreased in dollar terms for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to the following: a $81.5 million decrease in stock-based compensation and related taxes, primarily attributable to the timing of vesting of the December 2020 modification of 2018 performance awards related to COVID-19; a $13.7 million decrease in performance bonuses and related taxes; and a $12.4 million decrease in litigation expense in 2022 compared to 2021. These decreases were partially offset by a $21.5 million increase in employee wages primarily due to headcount growth; $20.5 million increase in outside services expense related to corporate initiatives; and $12.5 million associated with the biennial All Managers’ Conference that was held in March 2022. 24 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased as a percentage of total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to sales leverage, partially offset by increased depreciation expense associated with new restaurants. Pre-opening costs Pre-opening costs increased in dollar terms for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher wages and rent on increased openings of 236 new restaurants of in 2022 compared to 215 in 2021. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income (expense), net increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to a gain on our investments in Tractor Beverages, Inc. of $10.4 recognized in the second quarter of 2022, and, to a lesser extent, increased interest income on our investments in US Treasury securities, money market funds and time deposits due to increased interest rates in 2022 as compared to 2021. Benefit/(Provision) for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2022, was higher than the effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to a decrease in tax benefits related to option exercises and equity vesting, a reduction in return to provision benefits, and a net increase in uncertain tax position reserves. 25 Quarterly Financial Data/Seasonality Seasonal factors cause our profitability to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Historically, our average daily restaurant sales and net income are lower in the first and fourth quarters due, in part, to the holiday season and because fewer people eat out during periods of inclement weather (the winter months) than during periods of mild or warm weather (the spring, summer and fall months). Other factors also have a seasonal effect on our results. For example, restaurants located near colleges and universities generally do more business during the academic year. Seasonal factors, however, might be moderated or outweighed by other factors that may influence our quarterly results, such as unexpected publicity impacting our business in a positive or negative way, worldwide health pandemics, fluctuations in food or packaging costs, or the timing of menu price increases or promotional activities and other marketing initiatives. The number of trading days in a quarter can also affect our results, although, on an overall annual basis, changes in trading days do not have a significant impact. Our quarterly results are also affected by other factors such as the amount and timing of non -cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax rate impacts, litigation, settlement costs and related legal expenses, impairment charges and non-operating costs, timing of marketing or promotional expenses, the number and timing of new restaurants opened in a quarter, and closure of restaurants. New restaurants typically have higher operating costs following opening because of the expenses associated with their opening and operating inefficiencies in the months immediately following opening. Accordingly, results for a particular quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, we had a cash and marketable investments balance of $1.2 billion, excluding restricted cash of $25.0 million and non-marketable investments of $55.8 million. After funding the current operations in our restaurants and support centers, the first planned use of our cash flow from operations is to provide capital for the continued investment in new restaurant construction. In addition to continuing to invest in our restaurant expansion, we expect to utilize cash flow from operations to: repurchase additional shares of our common stock subject to market conditions; invest in, maintain, and refurbish our existing restaurants; and for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2022, $413.9 million remained available for repurchases of shares of our common stock, which includes the $200.0 million additional authorization approved by our Board of Directors on December 7, 2022. Under the remaining repurchase authorizations, shares may be purchased from time to time in open market transactions, subject to market conditions. Additionally, as of December 31, 2022, we had $500.0 million of undrawn borrowing capacity under a line of credit facility. We believe that cash from operations, together with our cash and investment balances, will be sufficient to meet ongoing capital expenditures, working capital requirements and other cash needs for the foreseeable future. Assuming no significant declines in comparable restaurant sales, we expect we will generate positive cash flow for the foreseeable future. Should our business deteriorate due to changing conditions, there are actions we can take to further conserve liquidity. We have not required significant working capital because customers generally pay using cash or credit and debit cards and because our operations do not require significant receivables, nor do they require significant inventories due, in part, to our use of various fresh ingredients. In addition, we generally have the right to pay for the purchase of food, beverages and supplies sometime after the receipt of those items, within ten days, thereby reducing the need for incremental working capital to support our growth. Our total capital expenditures for 2022 were $479.2 million. In 2022, we spent on average about $1.2 million in development and construction costs per new restaurant, or about $1.1 million net of landlord reimbursements of $0.1 million. In 2023, we expect to incur about $485 million in total capital expenditures. We expect approximately $350 million in capital expenditures related to our construction of new restaurants, before any reductions for landlord reimbursements. For new restaurants to be opened in 2023, we anticipate average development costs will remain consistent with 2022 due to a significant portion including Chipotlanes. We expect approximately $135 million in capital expenditures related to investments in existing restaurants including remodeling and similar improvements, new equipment and hardware, technology to optimize efficiencies . Finally, we expect a portion of our incurred capital expenditures to be for additional corporate initiatives including investments in technology to boost innovation, enhance the guest experience, and improve operations. 26 The following table summarizes current and long-term material cash requirements as of December 31, 2022, which we expect to fund primarily with operating cash flows : (1) See Note 9. “Leases” of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” This includes commitments related to reasonably certain renewal periods. (2) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms. We have excluded agreements that are cancelable without penalty. The majority of our purchase obligations relate to food, beverage and packaging, capital projects, information technology, marketing initiatives and corporate sponsorships, and other miscellaneous items. The above table does not include income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions for which we are not able to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of related future payments. Additionally, we have excluded our estimated loss contingencies, due to uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of payment. See Note 11. “Commitments and Contingencies” of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities was $1.32 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $1.28 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher net earnings partially offset by net cash used by changes in operating assets and liabilities . Cash used in investing activities was $830.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $522.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The change was primarily associated with a $267.3 million increase in U.S. Treasury security purchases net of U.S. Treasury security maturities and, to a lesser extent, increased capital expenditures of $36.7 million primarily related to costs associated with new restaurant development. Cash used in financing activities was $929.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $548.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The change was primarily due to increased treasury stock repurchases of $363.7 million and, to a lesser extent, $19.1 million of elevated payments of tax withholdings related to stock compensation for the year ended December 31, 2022. Critical Accounting Estimates We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 1. “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Critical accounting estimates are those that we believe are both significant and that require us to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often because we need to estimate the effect of inherently uncertain matters. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experiences and various other factors that we believe to be appropriate under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates, and we might obtain different estimates if we used different assumptions or factors. Leases We determine if a contract contains a lease at inception. Our material operating leases consist of restaurant locations and office space. Our leases generally have remaining terms of 1-20 years and most include options to extend the leases for additional 5-year periods. Generally, the lease term is the minimum of the noncancelable period of the lease or the lease term inclusive of reasonably certain renewal periods up to a term of 20 years. If the estimate of our reasonably certain lease term was changed, our depreciation and rent expense could differ materially. 27 Operating lease assets and liabilities are recognized at time of lease inception. Operating lease liabilities represent the present value of lease payments not yet paid. We made the policy election to combine lease and non-lease components, we also consider fixed common area maintenance (“CAM”) part of our fixed future lease payments. Fixed CAM is also included in our operating lease liability. Operating lease assets represent our right to use an underlying asset and are based upon the operating lease liabilities adjusted for prepayments, initial direct costs, lease incentives, and impairment of operating lease assets. To determine the present value of lease payments not yet paid, we estimate incremental borrowing rates corresponding to the reasonably certain lease term. As we have no outstanding debt nor committed credit facilities, secured or otherwise, we estimate this rate based on prevailing financial market conditions, comparable company and credit analysis, and management judgment. If the estimate of our incremental borrowing rate was changed, our operating lease assets and liabilities could differ materially. Deferred Revenue Chipotle Rewards Eligible customers who enroll in the Chipotle Rewards loyalty program generally earn points for every dollar spent. After accumulating the required number of points, the customer may select a reward. Earned rewards generally expire one to two months after they are issued, and points generally expire if an account is inactive for a period of six months. The estimation of the standalone selling price of points and other rewards issued to customers involves several assumptions, primarily the estimated value of product for which the reward is expected to be redeemed and the probability that the points or reward will expire. Our estimate of points and other rewards we expect to be redeemed is based on historical company specific data. These inputs are subject to change over time due to factors such as menu price increases, changes in point redemption options and changes in customer behavior. A relative increase of 100 basis points in our estimated ultimate redemption rate for future redemptions would have resulted in a reduction of food and beverage revenue on our consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income of approximately $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Gift Cards We sell gift cards, which do not have expiration dates, and we do not deduct non-usage fees from outstanding gift card balances. Gift card balances are initially recorded as unearned revenue. We recognize revenue from gift cards when the gift card is redeemed by the customer. Historically, the majority of gift cards are redeemed within one year. In addition, a portion of gift cards are not expected to be redeemed and will be recognized as breakage over time in proportion to gift card redemptions (“gift card breakage rate”) . The gift card breakage rate is based on company and program specific information, including historical redemption patterns, and expected remittance to government agencies under unclaimed property laws, if applicable. We evaluate our gift card breakage rate estimate annually, or more frequently as circumstances warrant, and apply that rate to gift card redemptions. A relative decrease of 100 basis points to our gift card breakage rate would have resulted in a reduction of food and beverage revenue on our consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income of approximately $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. For the purpose of reviewing restaurant assets to be held and used for potential impairment, assets are grouped together at the market level, or in the case of a potential relocation or closure, at the restaurant level. We manage our restaurants as a group with common costs and promotional activities; as such, an individual restaurant’s cash flows are not generally independent of the cash flows of others in a market. The fair value measurement for asset impairment is generally based on Level 3 inputs. We first compare the carrying value of the asset (or asset group, referred interchangeably throughout as asset) to the asset’s estimated future undiscounted cash flows. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, we determine if we have an impairment loss by comparing the carrying value of the asset to the asset's estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of the asset is generally determined using the income approach to measure the fair value, which is based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. Key inputs to the income approach for restaurant assets include the discount rate, projected revenue and expenses, and sublease income if we are closing the restaurant. In certain cases, management uses other market information, when available, to estimate the fair value of an asset. The impairment charges represent the excess of each asset’s carrying amount over its estimated fair value and are allocated among the long-lived asset or assets of the group. Our estimates of future revenues and expenses are highly subjective judgments based on internal projections and knowledge of our operations, historical performance, and trends in sales and restaurant operating costs, and can be significantly impacted by changes in our business or economic conditions. The determination of asset fair value is also subject to significant judgment and utilizes valuation techniques including discounting estimated future cash flows and market-based analyses to determine fair value. If our estimates or underlying assumptions, including discount rate and sublease income change in the future, our operating results may be materially impacted. 28 Stock-based Compensation We recognize compensation expense for equity awards over the requisite service period based on the award’s fair value. We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to determine the fair value of our stock-only stock appreciation rights (“SOSARs”), and we use the Monte Carlo simulation model to determine the fair value of stock awards that contain market conditions. Both of these models require assumptions to be made regarding our stock price volatility, the expected life of the award and expected dividend rates. The volatility and the expected life assumptions were based on our historical data. Similarly, the compensation expense of performance share awards is based in part on the estimated probability of achieving levels of performance associated with particular levels of payout for performance shares. We determine the probability of achievement of future levels of performance by comparing the relevant performance level with our internal estimates of future performance. Those estimates are based on a number of assumptions, including but not limited to growth in restaurant cash flow dollars, growth in comparable restaurant sales and average restaurant level margin, and different assumptions may have resulted in different conclusions regarding the probability of achieving future levels of performance relevant to the payout levels for the awards. Had we arrived at different assumptions of stock price volatility or expected lives of our SOSARs, or if we changed our assumptions regarding the probability of achieving future levels of performance with respect to performance share awards, our stock-based compensation expense and results of operations may be materially different. A relative increase of 100 basis points in our performance payout percentage estimates for all active performance share awards as of December 31, 2022 would have resulted in increased general and administrative expense on our consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income of approximately $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Insurance Liability We are self-insured for a significant portion of our employee health benefits programs. We carry significant retentions for risks and associated liabilities with respect to workers’ compensation, general liability, property and auto damage, employment practices liability, cyber liability and directors’ and officers’ liability. Predetermined loss limits have been arranged with third-party insurance companies to limit exposure to these claims. We record a liability that represents our estimated cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is not discounted and is based on a number of assumptions and factors, including historical trends, actuarial assumptions and economic conditions, and is closely monitored and adjusted when warranted by changing circumstances. If a greater amount of claims occurs compared to what we have estimated, or if medical costs increase beyond what we expected, our accrued liabilities might not be sufficient. Actual claims experience could also be more favorable than estimated. Unanticipated changes may produce materially different amounts of expense than that reported under these programs. Reserves/Contingencies for Litigation and Other Matters We are involved in various claims and legal actions that arise in the ordinary course of business. We record an accrual for legal contingencies when we determine that it is probable that we have incurred a liability and we can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss. Although we have recorded liabilities related to a number of legal actions, our estimates used to determine the amount of these liabilities may not be accurate, and there are other legal actions for which we have not recorded a liability. As a result, in the event legal actions for which we have not accrued a liability or for which our accrued liabilities are not accurate are resolved, such resolution may affect our operating results and cash flows. Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any related valuation allowance requires the use of estimates based on our management’s interpretation and application of complex tax laws and accounting guidance. We are primarily subject to income taxes in the United States. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions for material, known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the measurement and recognition of the item. We may adjust these reserves when our judgment changes as a result of the evaluation of new information not previously available and will be reflected in the period in which the new information is available, or due to the expiration of any applicable statute of limitations. While we believe that our reserves are adequate, issues raised by a tax authority may be resolved at an amount different than the related reserve and could materially increase or decrease our income tax provision in future periods. ‎ 29