********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to a variety of factors, often beyond their control, that are difficult to predict and that involve uncertainties that may materially adversely affect CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ business, liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that management believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect CMS Energy or Consumers. The risk factors described in the following sections, as well as the other information included in this report and in other documents filed with the SEC, should be considered carefully before making an investment in securities of CMS Energy or Consumers. Risk factors of Consumers are also risk factors of CMS Energy. Investment/Financial Risks CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service obligations. Due to its holding company structure, CMS Energy depends on dividends from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other payment obligations. If sufficient dividends were not paid to CMS Energy by its subsidiaries, CMS Energy might not be able to generate the funds necessary to fulfill its payment obligations. Consumers’ ability to pay dividends or acquire its own stock from CMS Energy is limited by restrictions contained in Consumers’ preferred stock provisions and potentially by other legal restrictions, such as certain terms in its articles of incorporation and FERC requirements. CMS Energy has indebtedness that could limit its financial flexibility and its ability to meet its debt service obligations. The level of CMS Energy’s present and future indebtedness could have several important effects on its future operations, including, among others, that: • a significant portion of CMS Energy’s cash flow from operations could be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness and would not be available for other purposes • covenants contained in CMS Energy’s existing debt arrangements, which require it to meet certain financial tests, could affect its flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in its business • CMS Energy’s ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and general corporate and other purposes could become limited • CMS Energy could be placed at a competitive disadvantage to its competitors that are less leveraged • CMS Energy’s vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions could increase • CMS Energy’s future credit ratings could fluctuate CMS Energy’s ability to meet its debt service obligations and to reduce its total indebtedness will depend on its future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles, changes in laws or regulatory decisions, and financial, business, and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond its control. CMS Energy cannot make assurances that its businesses will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service its indebtedness, which could require CMS Energy to sell assets or obtain additional financing. 37 CMS Energy and Consumers have financing needs and could be unable to obtain bank financing or access the capital markets. CMS Energy and Consumers rely on the capital markets, as well as on bank syndications, to meet their financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs not otherwise funded internally. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, or the inability to obtain required FERC authorization for issuances of securities including debt, could adversely affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ access to liquidity needed for their businesses. Any liquidity disruption could require CMS Energy and Consumers to take measures to conserve cash including, but not limited to, deferring capital expenditures, changing commodity purchasing strategies to avoid collateral-posting requirements, and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, dividend payments, or other discretionary uses of cash. Entering into new financings is subject in part to capital market receptivity to utility industry securities in general and to CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ securities in particular. CMS Energy and Consumers continue to explore financing opportunities to supplement their respective financial strategies. These potential opportunities include refinancing and/or issuing new debt, issuing CMS Energy preferred stock and/or common equity, or entering into commercial paper, bank financing, and leasing arrangements. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot guarantee the capital markets’ acceptance of their securities. CMS Energy may also, from time to time, repurchase (either in open market transactions or through privately negotiated transactions), redeem, or otherwise retire its outstanding debt. Such activities, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved may or may not be material. Certain of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ securities and those of their affiliates are rated by various credit rating agencies. A reduction or withdrawal of one or more of its credit ratings could have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ ability to access capital on acceptable terms and maintain commodity lines of credit, could increase their cost of borrowing, and could cause CMS Energy or Consumers to reduce capital expenditures. If either or both were unable to maintain commodity lines of credit, CMS Energy or Consumers might have to post collateral or make prepayments to certain suppliers under existing contracts. Further, since Consumers provides dividends to CMS Energy, any adverse developments affecting Consumers that result in a lowering of its credit ratings could have an adverse effect on CMS Energy’s credit ratings. Market performance and other changes could decrease the value of employee benefit plan assets, which then could require substantial funding. The performance of various markets affects the value of assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ pension and postretirement benefit plans. CMS Energy and Consumers have significant obligations under these plans and hold significant assets in these trusts. These assets are subject to market fluctuations and will yield uncertain returns, which could fall below CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ forecasted return rates. A decline in the market value of the assets or a change in the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels could significantly increase the funding requirements of these obligations. Also, changes in demographics, including an increased number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, could significantly increase the funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension and postretirement benefit plans. 38 Industry/Regulatory Risks Changes to ROA could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses. Michigan law allows electric customers in Consumers’ service territory to buy electric generation service from alternative electric suppliers in an aggregate amount capped at ten percent of Consumers’ sales, with certain exceptions. The proportion of Consumers’ electric deliveries under the ROA program and on the ROA waiting list is over ten percent. Consumers’ rates are regulated by the MPSC, while alternative electric suppliers charge market-based rates, putting competitive pressure on Consumers’ electric supply. If the ROA limit were increased or if electric generation service in Michigan were deregulated, it could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. Distributed energy resources could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses. Michigan law allows customers to use distributed energy resources for their electric energy needs. These distributed energy resources are connected to Consumers’ electric grid. The state distributed generation program is currently capped by the 2016 Energy Law at one percent of utilities’ peak loads, but in the settlement of its 2022 electric rate case, Consumers agreed to increase the cap to four percent on its system. Consumers is required to purchase distributed generation customers’ excess generation at rates determined by the MPSC. Recent FERC policy will also soon allow many customer-owned behind-the-meter and grid-connected distributed energy resources to participate in and receive revenue from wholesale electricity markets. Increased customer use of distributed energy resources could result in a reduction of Consumers’ electric sales. Third parties’ operations of distributed energy resources could also potentially have a negative impact on the stability of the grid. An increase in customers’ use of distributed energy resources, and the rate structure for distributed energy resources customers’ use of Consumers’ system and Consumers’ purchases of their excess generation, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on financial results. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to rate regulation. Consumers’ electric and gas retail rates are set by the MPSC and cannot be changed without regulatory authorization. If rate regulators fail to provide adequate rate relief, it could have a material adverse effect on Consumers or Consumers’ plans for making significant capital investments. Additionally, increasing rates could result in additional regulatory scrutiny, regulatory or legislative actions, and increased competitive or political pressures, all of which could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Orders of the MPSC could limit recovery of costs of providing service. These orders could also result in adverse regulatory treatment of other matters. For example, MPSC orders could prevent or curtail Consumers from shutting off non‑paying customers or could prevent or limit the implementation of a gas revenue mechanism. Regulators could face competitive or political pressures to avoid or limit rate increases for a number of reasons, including economic downturn in the state or decreased customer base, among others. FERC authorizes certain subsidiaries of CMS Energy to sell wholesale electricity at market-based rates. Failure of these subsidiaries to maintain this FERC authority could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Transmission rates paid by Consumers and other CMS Energy subsidiaries are also set by FERC, as are the tariff terms 39 governing the participation of Consumers and other CMS Energy subsidiaries in FERC-regulated wholesale electricity markets operated by regional transmission organizations and independent system operators such as MISO and PJM. At least one CMS Energy subsidiary participates in the wholesale electricity markets operated by ERCOT, over which FERC has limited control. The various risks associated with the MPSC and FERC regulation of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses, which include the risk of adverse decisions in any number of rate or regulatory proceedings before either agency, as well as judicial proceedings challenging any agency decisions, could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. Changes to the tariffs or business practice manuals of certain wholesale market operators such as MISO, PJM, or ERCOT could also have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. Utility regulation, state or federal legislation, and compliance could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to, or affected by, extensive utility regulation and state and federal legislation. If it were determined that CMS Energy or Consumers failed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, they could become subject to fines, penalties, or disallowed costs, or be required to implement additional compliance, cleanup, or remediation programs, the cost of which could be material. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of new laws, rules, regulations, principles, or practices by federal or state agencies or wholesale electricity market operators, or challenges or changes to present laws, rules, regulations, principles, or practices and the interpretation of any adoption or change. Furthermore, any state or federal legislation concerning CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ operations could also have a material adverse effect. FERC, through NERC and its delegated regional entities, oversees reliability of certain portions of the electric grid. CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the impact of FERC orders or actions of NERC and its regional entities on electric system reliability. Additionally, national gas pipeline infrastructure has recently been under scrutiny following disruptions related to extreme weather and cyber incidents. In 2021, the Transportation Security Administration issued two mandatory security directives related to natural gas pipelines that apply to Consumers. Additional regulation in this area could adversely affect Consumers’ gas operations. CMS Energy and Consumers have announced ambitious plans to reduce their impact on climate change and increase the reliability of their electric distribution system. Achieving these plans depends on numerous factors, many of which are outside of their control. Consumers has announced a long-term strategy for delivering clean, reliable, resilient, and affordable energy, including a plan to end coal use in 2025 as set forth in the 2021 IRP. The MPSC, FERC, other regulatory authorities, or other third parties may prohibit, delay, or impair the 2021 IRP and some or all of the 2021 IRP-associated acquisitions of owned or purchased electric generation capacity. Consumers may be unable to acquire, site, and/or permit some or all of the generation capacity proposed in the 2021 IRP. Consumers’ ability to implement the 2021 IRP may be affected by global supply chain disruptions and changes in the cost, availability, and supply of generation capacity. While CMS Energy and Consumers continue to advocate for advances in technologies required to reduce or eliminate greenhouse gases on a cost-effective basis, such advances are largely outside of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ control. Advancements in technology related to items such as battery storage and electric vehicles may not become commercially available or economically feasible as projected in the 2021 IRP. Customer programs such as energy efficiency and demand response may not realize the projected levels of customer participation. 40 Consumers has also announced its Natural Gas Delivery Plan, a 10-year strategic investment plan to deliver safe, reliable, clean, and affordable natural gas to customers. This plan includes accelerated infrastructure replacements, innovative leak detection technology, and process changes to reduce or eliminate methane emissions. The MPSC, FERC, other regulatory authorities, or other third parties may prohibit, delay, or impair the Natural Gas Delivery Plan and some or all of the associated capital investments. Consumers’ ability to implement its plan may be affected by environmental regulations, global supply chain disruptions, and changes in the cost, availability, and supply of natural gas or the ability to deliver natural gas to customers. Advancements in technology related to items such as renewable natural gas may not become commercially available or economically feasible as projected in Consumers’ plan. CMS Energy and Consumers could suffer financial loss, reputational damage, litigation, or other negative repercussions if they are unable to achieve their ambitious plans. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact CMS Energy and Consumers. CMS Energy and Consumers are required to make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various financial transactions and results of operations in order to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities. The tax obligations include income taxes, real estate taxes, sales and use taxes, employment-related taxes, and ongoing issues related to these tax matters. The judgments include determining reserves for potential adverse outcomes regarding tax positions that have been taken and may be subject to challenge by the IRS and/or other taxing authorities. Unfavorable settlements of any of the issues related to these reserves or other tax matters at CMS Energy or Consumers could have a material adverse effect. Additionally, changes in federal, state, or local tax rates or other changes in tax laws could have adverse impacts. CMS Energy and its subsidiaries, including Consumers, must comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and its related regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act provides for regulation by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission of certain commodity-related contracts. Although CMS Energy, Consumers, and certain subsidiaries of NorthStar Clean Energy qualify for an end-user exception from mandatory clearing of commodity-related swaps, these regulations could affect the ability of these entities to participate in these markets and could add additional regulatory oversight over their contracting activities. CMS Energy and Consumers could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental requirements. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to costly and stringent environmental regulations that will likely require additional significant capital expenditures for CCR disposal and storage, cooling water intake equipment, effluent treatment, and PCB remediation. In addition, regulatory action on PFAS at the state and/or federal level could cause CMS Energy and Consumers to further test and remediate some sites if PFAS is present at certain levels. Present and reasonably anticipated state and federal environmental statutes and regulations will continue to have a material effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. CMS Energy and Consumers have interests in fossil-fuel-fired power plants, other types of power plants, and natural gas systems that emit greenhouse gases. Federal, state, and local environmental laws and rules, as well as international accords and treaties, could require CMS Energy and Consumers to install additional equipment for emission controls, undertake heat-rate improvement projects, purchase carbon emissions allowances, curtail operations, invest in generating capacity with fewer carbon dioxide emissions, or take other significant steps to manage or lower the emission of greenhouse gases. Similarly, 41 Consumers could be restricted from constructing natural gas infrastructure due to potential environmental regulations, which could require more costly alternatives. The following risks related to climate change, emissions, and environmental regulations could also have a material adverse impact on CMS Energy and Consumers: • a change in regulators’ implementation of policy or litigation originated by third parties against CMS Energy or Consumers due to CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ greenhouse gas or other emissions or CCR disposal and storage • impairment of CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ reputation due to their greenhouse gas or other emissions and public perception of their response to potential environmental regulations, rules, and legislation • extreme weather conditions, such as severe storms or flooding, that may affect customer demand, company operations, or company infrastructure Consumers expects to collect fully from its customers, through the ratemaking process, expenditures incurred to comply with environmental regulations, but cannot guarantee this outcome. If Consumers were unable to recover these expenditures from customers in rates, CMS Energy or Consumers could be required to seek significant additional financing to fund these expenditures. For additional information regarding compliance with environmental regulations, see Item 1. Business—CMS Energy and Consumers Environmental Strategy and Compliance and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Outlook. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses could be affected adversely by any delay in meeting environmental requirements. A delay or failure by CMS Energy or Consumers to obtain or maintain any necessary environmental permits or approvals to satisfy any applicable environmental regulatory requirements or install emission or pollution control equipment could: • prevent the construction of new facilities • prevent the continued operation of and sale of energy from existing facilities • prevent the suspension of operations at existing facilities • prevent the modification of existing facilities • result in significant additional costs CMS Energy and Consumers expect to incur additional substantial costs related to remediation of legacy environmental sites. Consumers expects to incur additional substantial costs related to the remediation of its former MGP sites and other response activity costs at a number of other sites, including, but not limited to, sites of retired coal-fueled electric generating units, under NREPA and CERCLA. Consumers believes these costs should be recoverable in rates, but cannot guarantee that outcome. Business/Operations Risks There are risks associated with Consumers’ substantial capital investment program planned for the next ten years. Consumers’ planned investments include the construction or acquisition of electric generation, electric and gas infrastructure, conversions and expansions, environmental controls, electric grid modernization 42 technology, and other electric and gas investments to upgrade delivery systems, as well as decommissioning of older facilities. The success of these capital investments depends on or could be affected by a variety of factors that include, but are not limited to: • effective pre-acquisition evaluation of asset values, future operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities, and other factors beyond Consumers’ control • effective cost and schedule management of new capital projects • availability of qualified construction personnel, both internal and contracted • changes in commodity and other prices, applicable tariffs, and/or material and equipment availability • governmental approvals and permitting • operational performance • changes in environmental, legislative, and regulatory requirements • regulatory cost recovery • inflation of labor rates • increases in lead times and disruptions in supply chain distribution • barriers to accessing key materials for renewable projects (solar, battery, and other key equipment) created by geopolitical relations and U.S. relations with China It is possible that adverse events associated with these factors could have a material adverse effect on Consumers. CMS Energy and Consumers could be affected adversely by legacy litigation and retained liabilities. The agreements that CMS Energy and Consumers enter into for the sale of assets customarily include provisions whereby they are required to: • retain specified preexisting liabilities, such as for taxes, pensions, or environmental conditions • indemnify the buyers against specified risks, including the inaccuracy of representations and warranties that CMS Energy and Consumers make • make payments to the buyers depending on the outcome of post-closing adjustments, litigation, audits, or other reviews, including claims resulting from attempts by foreign or domestic governments to assess taxes on past operations or transactions Many of these contingent liabilities can remain open for extended periods of time after the sales are closed. Depending on the extent to which the buyers might ultimately seek to enforce their rights under these contractual provisions, and the resolution of any disputes concerning them, there could be a material adverse effect on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations. Consumers is exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in its service territories. Consumers’ electric and gas utility businesses are affected by the economic conditions impacting the customers they serve. If the Michigan economy becomes sluggish or declines, Consumers could experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. In addition, economic conditions in Consumers’ service territory affect its collections of accounts receivable and levels of lost or stolen gas. 43 Consumers is exposed to changes in customer usage that could impact financial results. Technology advances, government incentives and subsidies, and recent regulatory decisions could increase the cost effectiveness of customer-owned methods of producing electricity and managing energy use resulting in reduced load, cross subsidization, and increased costs. Customers could also reduce their consumption through demand-side energy conservation and energy waste reduction programs. Similarly, customers could also reduce their consumption of natural gas through alternative technologies or fuels. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ energy sales and operations are affected by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year to year. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ utility operations are seasonal. The consumption of electric energy typically increases in the summer months, due primarily to the use of air conditioners and other cooling equipment, while peak demand for natural gas typically occurs in the winter due to colder temperatures and the resulting use of natural gas as heating fuel. Accordingly, CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ overall results may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and winter heating season as well as the impact of extreme weather events on Consumers’ system could have a material adverse effect. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to information security risks, risks of unauthorized access to their systems, and technology failures. In the regular course of business, CMS Energy and Consumers handle a range of sensitive confidential security and customer information. In addition, CMS Energy and Consumers operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information and control technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite implementation of security measures, technology systems, including disaster recovery and backup systems, are vulnerable to failure, cyber crime, unauthorized access, and being disabled. These events could impact the reliability of electric generation and electric and gas delivery and also subject CMS Energy and Consumers to financial harm. Cyber crime, which includes the use of malware, computer viruses, and other means for disruption or unauthorized access against companies, including CMS Energy and Consumers, is increasing in frequency, scope, and potential impact. While CMS Energy and Consumers have not been subject to cyber incidents that have had a material impact on their operations to date, their security measures in place may be insufficient to prevent a major cyber incident in the future. If technology systems, including disaster recovery and backup systems, were to fail or be breached, CMS Energy and Consumers might not be able to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and proprietary data could be compromised. In addition, because CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ generation, transmission, and distribution systems are part of an interconnected system, a disruption caused by a cyber incident at another utility, electric generator, system operator, or commodity supplier could also adversely affect CMS Energy or Consumers. A variety of technological tools and systems, including both company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties, support critical functions. The failure of these technologies, including backup systems, or the inability of CMS Energy and Consumers to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into other technologies, could hinder their business operations. 44 CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses have liability risks. Consumers’ electric and gas delivery systems, power plants, gas infrastructure including storage facilities, wind energy or solar equipment, and energy products, and the independent power plants owned in whole or in part by CMS Energy could be involved in incidents, failures, or accidents that result in injury, loss of life, or property loss to customers, employees, or the public. Although CMS Energy and Consumers have insurance coverage for many potential incidents (subject to deductibles, limitations, and self-insurance amounts that could be material), depending upon the nature or severity of any incident, failure, or accident, CMS Energy or Consumers could suffer financial loss, reputational damage, and negative repercussions from regulatory agencies or other public authorities. CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to risks that are beyond their control, including but not limited to natural disasters, civil unrest, terrorist attacks and related acts of war, cyber incidents, vandalism, and other catastrophic events. Natural disasters, severe weather, wars, terrorist acts, civil unrest, vandalism, theft, cyber incidents, pandemics, and other catastrophic events could result in severe damage to CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ assets beyond what could be recovered through insurance policies (which are subject to deductibles, limitations, and self-insurance amounts that could be material), could require CMS Energy and Consumers to incur significant upfront costs, and could severely disrupt operations, resulting in loss of service to customers. There is also a risk that regulators could, after the fact, conclude that Consumers’ preparedness or response to such an event was inadequate and take adverse actions as a result. Energy risk management strategies might not be effective in managing fuel and electricity pricing risks, which could result in unanticipated liabilities to CMS Energy and Consumers or increased volatility in their earnings. CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to changes in market prices for commodities including, but not limited to, natural gas, coal, electric capacity, electric energy, emission allowances, gasoline, diesel fuel, and RECs. CMS Energy and Consumers manage commodity price risk using established policies and procedures, and they may use various contracts to manage this risk, including swaps, options, futures, and forward contracts. No assurance can be made that these strategies will be successful in managing CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ risk or that they will not result in net liabilities to CMS Energy or Consumers as a result of future volatility. A substantial portion of Consumers’ operating expenses for its electric generating plants and vehicle fleet consists of the costs of obtaining these commodities. The contracts associated with Consumers’ fuel for electric generation and purchased power are executed in conjunction with the PSCR mechanism, which is designed to allow Consumers to recover prudently incurred costs associated with its positions in these commodities. If the MPSC determined that any of these contracts or related contracting policies were imprudent, recovery of these costs could be disallowed. Natural gas prices in particular have been historically volatile. Consumers routinely enters into contracts for natural gas to mitigate exposure to the risks of demand, market effects of weather, and changes in commodity prices associated with the gas distribution business. These contracts are executed in conjunction with the GCR mechanism, which is designed to allow Consumers to recover prudently incurred costs associated with its natural gas positions. If the MPSC determined that any of these contracts or related contracting policies were imprudent, recovery of these costs could be disallowed. CMS Energy and Consumers do not always hedge any or all of the exposure of their operations from commodity price volatility. Furthermore, the ability to hedge exposure to commodity price volatility depends on liquid commodity markets. As a result, to the extent the commodity markets are illiquid, 45 CMS Energy and Consumers might not be able to execute their risk management strategies, which could result in larger unhedged positions than preferred at a given time. To the extent that unhedged positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices could have a negative effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. Changes in laws that limit CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ ability to hedge could also have a negative effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. Consumers might not be able to obtain an adequate supply of natural gas or coal, which could limit its ability to operate its electric generation facilities or serve its natural gas customers. Consumers has natural gas and coal supply and transportation contracts in place for the natural gas and coal it requires for its electric generating capacity. Consumers also has interstate transportation and supply agreements in place to facilitate delivery of natural gas to its customers. Apart from the contractual and monetary remedies available to Consumers in the event of a counterparty’s failure to perform under any of these contracts, there can be no assurances that the counterparties to these contracts will fulfill their obligations to provide natural gas or coal to Consumers. The counterparties under the agreements could experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to Consumers. In addition, counterparties under these contracts might not be required to supply natural gas or coal to Consumers under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster or severe weather. If Consumers were unable to obtain its supply requirements, it could be required to purchase natural gas or coal at higher prices, implement its natural gas curtailment program filed with the MPSC, or purchase replacement power at higher prices. Unplanned outages or maintenance could be costly for CMS Energy or Consumers. Unforeseen outages or maintenance of the electric and gas delivery systems, power plants, gas infrastructure including storage facilities and compression stations, wind energy or solar equipment, and energy products owned in whole or in part by CMS Energy or Consumers may be required for many reasons. When unplanned outages occur, CMS Energy and Consumers will not only incur unexpected maintenance expenses, but may also have to make spot market purchases of electric and gas commodities that may exceed CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ expected cost of generation or gas supply, be forced to curtail services, or retire a given asset if the cost or timing of the maintenance is not reasonable and prudent. Unplanned generator outages could reduce the capacity credit CMS Energy or Consumers receives from MISO and could cause CMS Energy or Consumers to incur additional capacity costs in future years. General Risk Factors The COVID-19 pandemic could materially and adversely affect each of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ business, results of operations, financial condition, capital investment program, liquidity, and cash flows. The COVID‑19 pandemic has had widespread impacts on people, businesses, economies, and financial markets globally, in the U.S., and in markets where CMS Energy and Consumers conduct business. These impacts include a reduction in economic activity, disruption to supply chains and operations, increased labor costs, reduced availability of labor, and reduced productivity. CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to counterparty risk. Adverse economic conditions or financial difficulties experienced by counterparties with whom CMS Energy and Consumers do business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for 46 CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ services and/or fulfill their contractual obligations, including performance and payment of damages. CMS Energy and Consumers depend on these counterparties to remit payments and perform contracted services in a timely and adequate fashion. Any delay or default in payment or performance, including inadequate performance, of contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on CMS Energy and Consumers. Volatility and disruptions in capital and credit markets could have a negative impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ lenders, vendors, contractors, suppliers, customers, and other counterparties, causing them to fail to meet their obligations. CMS Energy and Consumers are exposed to significant reputational risks. CMS Energy and Consumers could suffer negative impacts to their reputations as a result of operational incidents, violations of corporate policies, regulatory violations, inappropriate use of social media, or other events. Reputational damage could have a material adverse effect and could result in negative customer perception and increased regulatory oversight. A work interruption or other union actions could adversely affect Consumers. At December 31, 2022, unions represent 42 percent of Consumers’ employees. Consumers’ union agreements expire in 2025. If these employees were to engage in a strike, work stoppage, or other slowdown, Consumers could experience a significant disruption in its operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations. In some areas, competition for skilled employees is high and if CMS Energy and Consumers were unable to match skill sets to future needs, they could encounter operating challenges and increased costs. These challenges could include a lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and delays in skill development. Additionally, higher costs could result from the use of contractors to replace employees, loss of productivity, and safety incidents. Failing to train replacement employees adequately and to transfer internal knowledge and expertise could adversely affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ ability to manage and operate their businesses.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is a combined report of CMS Energy and Consumers. Executive Overview CMS Energy is an energy company operating primarily in Michigan. It is the parent holding company of several subsidiaries, including Consumers, an electric and gas utility, and NorthStar Clean Energy (formerly known as CMS Enterprises Company), primarily a domestic independent power producer and marketer. Consumers’ electric utility operations include the generation, purchase, distribution, and sale of electricity, and Consumers’ gas utility operations include the purchase, transmission, storage, distribution, and sale of natural gas. Consumers’ customer base consists of a mix of primarily residential, commercial, and diversified industrial customers. NorthStar Clean Energy, through its subsidiaries and equity investments, is engaged in domestic independent power production, including the development and operation of renewable generation, and the marketing of independent power production. CMS Energy was also the parent holding company of EnerBank, an industrial bank located in Utah, until October 1, 2021 when EnerBank was acquired by Regions Bank. CMS Energy and Consumers manage their businesses by the nature of services each provides. CMS Energy operates principally in three business segments: electric utility; gas utility; and NorthStar 50 Clean Energy, its non‑utility operations and investments. Consumers operates principally in two business segments: electric utility and gas utility. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ businesses are affected primarily by: • regulation and regulatory matters • state and federal legislation • economic conditions • weather • energy commodity prices • interest rates • their securities’ credit ratings The Triple Bottom Line CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ purpose is to achieve world class performance while delivering hometown service. In support of this purpose, CMS Energy and Consumers employ the “CE Way,” a lean operating model designed to improve safety, quality, cost, delivery, and employee morale. CMS Energy and Consumers measure their progress toward the purpose by considering their impact on the “triple bottom line” of people, planet, and profit, which is underpinned by performance; this consideration takes into account not only the economic value that CMS Energy and Consumers create for customers and investors, but also their responsibility to social and environmental goals. The triple bottom line balances the interests of employees, customers, suppliers, regulators, creditors, Michigan’s residents, the investment community, and other stakeholders, and it reflects the broader societal impacts of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ activities. CMS Energy’s Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability Report, which is available to the public, describes CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ progress toward world class performance measured in the areas of people, planet, and profit. People: The people element of the triple bottom line represents CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commitment to their employees, their customers, the residents of local communities in which they do business, and other stakeholders. The safety of employees, customers, and the general public is a priority of CMS Energy and Consumers. Accordingly, CMS Energy and Consumers have worked to integrate a set of safety principles into their business operations and culture. These principles include complying with applicable safety, health, and security regulations and implementing programs and processes aimed at continually improving safety and security conditions. Over the last ten years, Consumers’ OSHA recordable incident rate has decreased by 34 percent. 51 CMS Energy and Consumers also place a high priority on customer value and on providing a hometown customer experience. Consumers’ customer-driven investment program is aimed at improving safety and increasing electric and gas reliability, which has resulted in measurable improvements in customer satisfaction. Central to Consumers’ commitment to its customers are the initiatives it has undertaken to keep electricity and natural gas affordable, including: • replacement of coal-fueled generation and PPAs with a cost-efficient mix of renewable energy, less-costly dispatchable generation sources, and energy waste reduction and demand response programs • targeted infrastructure investment to reduce maintenance costs and improve reliability and safety • supply chain optimization • economic development to increase sales and reduce overall rates • information and control system efficiencies • employee and retiree health care cost sharing • workforce productivity enhancements While CMS Energy and Consumers have experienced some supply chain disruptions and inflationary pressures, they have taken steps to mitigate the impact on their ability to provide safe and reliable service to customers. Planet: The planet element of the triple bottom line represents CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commitment to protect the environment. This commitment extends beyond compliance with various state and federal environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. Management considers climate change and other environmental risks in strategy development, business planning, and enterprise risk management processes. CMS Energy and Consumers continue to focus on opportunities to protect the environment and to reduce their carbon footprint. As a result of actions already taken through 2022, CMS Energy and Consumers have: • decreased their combined percentage of electric supply (self-generated and purchased) from coal by 17 percentage points since 2015 • reduced carbon dioxide emissions by over 30 percent since 2005 • reduced the amount of water used to generate electricity by over 35 percent since 2012 • reduced landfill waste disposal by over 1.7 million tons since 1992 • reduced methane emissions by more than 20 percent since 2012 52 Since 2005, Consumers has reduced its sulfur dioxide and particulate matter emissions by over 90 percent and its nitrogen oxides emissions by over 80 percent. Consumers began tracking mercury emissions in 2007; since that time, it has reduced such emissions by nearly 90 percent. Presented in the following illustration are Consumers’ reductions in these emissions: The 2016 Energy Law: • raised the renewable energy standard to 15 percent in 2021; Consumers has met the 15 ‑ percent requirement and expects to continue meeting the requirement going forward with a combination of newly generated RECs and previously generated RECs carried over from prior years • established a goal of 35 ‑ percent combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction by 2025; Consumers achieved 33 ‑ percent combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction through 2022 • authorized incentives for demand response programs and energy efficiency programs, referring to the combined initiatives as energy waste reduction programs • established an integrated planning process for new capacity and energy resources Consumers’ Clean Energy Plan details its strategy to meet customers’ long-term energy needs. The Clean Energy Plan was originally outlined in Consumers’ 2018 IRP, which was approved by the MPSC in 2019. Under its Clean Energy Plan, Consumers will meet the requirements of the 2016 Energy Law using its clean and lean strategy, which focuses on increasing the generation of renewable energy, helping customers use less energy, and offering demand response programs to reduce demand during critical peak times. In June 2021, Consumers filed its 2021 IRP with the MPSC, proposing updates to the Clean Energy Plan. In April 2022, Consumers and a broad coalition of key stakeholders, including customer groups, environmental organizations, the MPSC Staff, energy industry representatives, and the Michigan Attorney 53 General, filed a settlement agreement with the MPSC resolving Consumers’ 2021 IRP. The MPSC approved that settlement agreement in June 2022. The 2021 IRP outlines Consumers’ long-term strategy for delivering clean, reliable, resilient, and affordable energy to its customers, including plans to: • end the use of coal-fueled generation in 2025, 15 years sooner than initially planned • purchase an existing natural gas-fueled generating unit, providing an additional 1,176 MW of nameplate capacity and allowing Consumers to continue providing controllable sources of electricity to customers • solicit approximately 700 MW of capacity through PPAs from sources able to deliver to Michigan’s Lower Peninsula beginning in 2025 • expand its investment in renewable energy, adding nearly 8,000 MW of solar generation by 2040 Under the 2021 IRP, Consumers will continue to earn a return equal to its weighted-average cost of capital on payments made under new competitively bid PPAs approved by the MPSC. The 2021 IRP will allow Consumers to exceed its breakthrough goal of at least 50 ‑ percent combined renewable energy and energy waste reduction by 2030. Presented in the following illustration is Consumers’ 2021 capacity portfolio and its future capacity portfolio under its 2021 IRP. This illustration includes the effects of purchased capacity and energy waste reduction and uses the nameplate capacity for all energy sources: 1 Does not include RECs. 2 These amounts and fuel sources will vary and are dependent on a one-time competitive solicitation to acquire approximately 700 MW of capacity through PPAs from sources able to deliver to Michigan’s Lower Peninsula beginning in 2025. 54 In addition to Consumers’ plan to eliminate its use of coal-fueled generation in 2025, CMS Energy and Consumers have set the net‑zero emissions goals discussed below. Net-zero methane emissions from natural gas delivery system by 2030: Under its Methane Reduction Plan, Consumers plans to reduce methane emissions from its system by about 80 percent by accelerating the replacement of aging pipe, rehabilitating or retiring outdated infrastructure, and adopting new technologies and practices. The remaining emissions will likely be offset by purchasing and/or producing renewable natural gas. Net-zero carbon emissions from electric business by 2040: This goal includes not only emissions from owned generation, but also emissions from the generation of power purchased through long-term PPAs and from the MISO energy market. Consumers expects to meet 90 percent of its customers’ needs with clean energy sources by 2040 through execution of its Clean Energy Plan. New technologies and carbon offset measures including, but not limited to, carbon sequestration, methane emission capture, forest preservation, and reforestation may be used to close the gap to achieving net-zero carbon emissions. Net-zero greenhouse gas emissions target for the entire business by 2050: This goal, announced in March 2022, incorporates greenhouse gas emissions from Consumers’ natural gas delivery system, including suppliers and customers, and has an interim goal of reducing customer emissions by 20 percent by 2030. Consumers expects to meet this goal through carbon offset measures, renewable natural gas, energy efficiency and demand response programs, and the adoption of cost-effective emerging technologies once proven and commercially available. Additionally, to advance its environmental stewardship in Michigan and to minimize the impact of future regulations, Consumers announced the following targets in 2022: • to enhance, restore, or protect 6,500 acres of land by 2026; in 2022, Consumers enhanced, restored, or protected over 700 acres of land • to increase the rate of waste diverted from landfills (through waste reduction, recycling, and reuse) to 90 percent from a baseline of 88 percent; in 2022, Consumers’ rate of waste diverted from landfills was 92 percent CMS Energy and Consumers are monitoring numerous legislative, policy, and regulatory initiatives, including those to regulate and report greenhouse gases, and related litigation. While CMS Energy and Consumers cannot predict the outcome of these matters, which could affect them materially, they intend to continue to move forward with their clean and lean strategy. Profit: The profit element of the triple bottom line represents CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ commitment to meeting their financial objectives and providing economic development opportunities and benefits in the communities in which they do business. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial strength allows them to maintain solid investment-grade credit ratings and thereby reduce funding costs for the benefit of customers and investors, to preserve and create jobs, and to reinvest in the communities they serve. In 2022, CMS Energy’s net income available to common stockholders was $827 million, and diluted EPS were $2.85. This compares with net income available to common stockholders of $1.3 billion and diluted EPS of $4.66 in 2021. In 2022, higher gas sales due primarily to favorable weather, along with benefits from gas and electric rate increases, were more than offset by the absence of the 2021 gain on the sale of EnerBank. A more detailed discussion of the factors affecting CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ performance can be found in the Results of Operations section that follows this Executive Overview. 55 Over the next five years, Consumers expects weather-normalized electric and gas deliveries to remain relatively stable compared to 2022. This outlook reflects the effects of energy waste reduction programs offset largely by modest growth in electric and gas demand. Performance: Impacting the Triple Bottom Line CMS Energy and Consumers remain committed to achieving world class performance while delivering hometown service and positively impacting the triple bottom line of people, planet, and profit. During 2022, CMS Energy and Consumers: • settled and received approval of Consumers’ 2021 IRP, gas rate case, and electric rate case, demonstrating the constructive nature of Michigan’s regulatory environment • partnered with state and federal agencies to secure over $100 million of customer assistance to help keep customer bills affordable • committed to power over 1,200 Michigan public buildings with 100 ‑ percent clean energy • reached an agreement with General Motors Company, a non-affiliated company, to power all of its auto plants within Consumers’ electric service territory with 100 ‑ percent clean energy • announced the “Clean Air” program for residential and business customers who want to offset carbon emissions from their natural gas use and help protect the planet’s atmosphere • installed five new units at the Freedom Compressor Station, continuing progress toward achieving Consumers’ Natural Gas Delivery Plan, making its gas system even more safe, reliable, affordable, and clean • participated in the state’s economic development efforts that resulted in Gotion, Inc., a non ‑ affiliated global battery components producer, committing to construct a manufacturing facility in Big Rapids, Michigan • received recognition as #1 utility company in the U.S. for America’s Best Employers for Women and America’s Best Employers for Diversity by Forbes ® CMS Energy and Consumers will continue to utilize the CE Way to enable them to achieve world class performance and positively impact the triple bottom line. Consumers’ investment plan and the regulatory environment in which it operates also drive its ability to impact the triple bottom line. Investment Plan: Over the next five years, Consumers expects to make significant expenditures on infrastructure upgrades, replacements, and clean generation. While it has a large number of potential investment opportunities that would add customer value, Consumers has prioritized its spending based on the criteria of enhancing public safety, increasing reliability, maintaining affordability for its customers, and advancing its environmental stewardship. Consumers’ investment program is expected to result in annual rate-base growth of over seven percent. This rate-base growth, together with cost-control measures, should allow Consumers to maintain affordable customer prices. 56 Presented in the following illustration are planned capital expenditures of $15.5 billion that Consumers expects to make from 2023 through 2027: Of this amount, Consumers plans to spend $12.4 billion over the next five years to primarily maintain and upgrade its gas infrastructure and electric distribution systems in order to enhance safety and reliability, improve customer satisfaction, reduce energy waste on those systems, and facilitate its clean energy transformation. The gas infrastructure projects comprise $6.3 billion to sustain deliverability, enhance pipeline integrity and safety, and reduce methane emissions. Electric distribution and other projects comprise $6.1 billion to strengthen circuits and substations, replace poles, and interconnect clean energy resources. Consumers also expects to spend $3.1 billion on clean generation, which includes investments in wind, solar, and hydro electric generation resources. Regulation: Regulatory matters are a key aspect of Consumers’ business, particularly rate cases and regulatory proceedings before the MPSC, which permit recovery of new investments while helping to ensure that customer rates are fair and affordable. Important regulatory events and developments not already discussed are summarized below. 2021 Gas Rate Case: In December 2021, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC seeking an annual rate increase of $278 million, based on a 10.5-percent authorized return on equity for the projected twelve-month period ending September 30, 2023. In July 2022, the MPSC approved a settlement agreement authorizing an annual rate increase of $170 million, based on a 9.9-percent authorized return on equity, effective October 1, 2022. The MPSC also approved the continuation of a revenue decoupling mechanism, which annually reconciles Consumers’ actual weather-normalized non-fuel revenues with the revenues approved. 2022 Gas Rate Case: In December 2022, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC seeking an annual rate increase of $212 million, based on a 10.25-percent authorized return on equity for the projected twelve-month period ending September 30, 2024. The filing requests authority to recover new infrastructure investment and related costs that are expected to allow Consumers to improve system safety and reliability and reduce fugitive methane emissions. 57 2022 Electric Rate Case: In April 2022, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC seeking a rate increase of $272 million, based on a 10.25-percent authorized return on equity for the projected twelve-month period ending December 31, 2023. In September 2022, Consumers revised its requested increase to $292 million. The filing requested authority to recover future investments associated with distribution system reliability, solar generation, environmental compliance, and enhanced technology. In January 2023, the MPSC approved a settlement agreement authorizing an annual rate increase of $155 million, based on a 9.9-percent authorized return on equity. The MPSC also approved a surcharge for the recovery of $6 million of depreciation, property tax, and interest expense related to distribution investments made in 2021 that exceeded what was authorized in rates in accordance with the December 2020 electric rate order. Looking Forward CMS Energy and Consumers will continue to consider the impact on the triple bottom line of people, planet, and profit in their daily operations as well as in their long-term strategic decisions. Consumers will continue to seek fair and timely regulatory treatment that will support its customer-driven investment plan, while pursuing cost-control measures that will allow it to maintain sustainable customer base rates. The CE Way is an important means of realizing CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ purpose of achieving world class performance while delivering hometown service. 58 Results of Operations CMS Energy Consolidated Results of Operations For a summary of net income available to common stockholders for 2021 versus 2020, as well as detailed changes by reportable segment, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations, in the . Amounts in the following tables are presented pre-tax, with the exception of income tax changes. 59 Presented in the following table is a summary of changes to net income available to common stockholders for 2022 versus 2021: 1 See Note 2, Regulatory Matters. 60 Consumers Electric Utility Results of Operations Presented in the following table are the detailed changes to the electric utility’s net income available to common stockholders for 2022 versus 2021: 1 Deliveries to end-use customers were 37.3 billion kWh in 2022 and 36.2 billion kWh in 2021. 2 See Note 2, Regulatory Matters. 61 Consumers Gas Utility Results of Operations Presented in the following table are the detailed changes to the gas utility’s net income available to common stockholders for 2022 versus 2021: 1 Deliveries to end-use customers were 315 bcf in 2022 and 282 bcf in 2021. 2 See Note 2, Regulatory Matters. 3 See Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments. 4 See Note 12, Income Taxes. 62 NorthStar Clean Energy Results of Operations Presented in the following table are the detailed changes to NorthStar Clean Energy’s net income available to common stockholders for 2022 versus 2021: Corporate Interest and Other Results of Operations Presented in the following table are the detailed changes to corporate interest and other results for 2022 versus 2021: Results of Discontinued Operations In October 2021, EnerBank was acquired by Regions Bank. As a result, EnerBank’s results of operations through the date of the sale are presented as income from discontinued operations on CMS Energy’s consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. For additional details see, Note 19, Exit Activities and Discontinued Operations. Presented in the following table are the detailed changes to discontinued operations for 2022 versus 2021: 63 Cash Position, Investing, and Financing At December 31, 2022, CMS Energy had $182 million of consolidated cash and cash equivalents, which included $18 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. At December 31, 2022, Consumers had $60 million of consolidated cash and cash equivalents, which included $17 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. For specific components of net cash provided by operating activities, net cash used in investing activities, and net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for 2021 versus 2020, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cash Position, Investing, and Financing, in the . Operating Activities Presented in the following table are specific components of net cash provided by operating activities for 2022 versus 2021: 1 Non ‑ cash transactions comprise depreciation and amortization, changes in deferred income taxes and investment tax credits, bad debt expense, and other non‑cash operating activities and reconciling adjustments. 2 For information regarding the sale of EnerBank, see Note 19, Exit Activities and Discontinued Operations. 3 Core working capital comprises accounts receivable, accrued revenue, inventories, accounts payable, and accrued rate refunds. 4 For information regarding the underrecovery of power supply costs, see Note 2, Regulatory Matters. 64 Investing Activities Presented in the following table are specific components of net cash used in investing activities for 2022 versus 2021: 1 For information regarding the sale of EnerBank, see Note 19, Exit Activities and Discontinued Operations. 65 Financing Activities Presented in the following table are specific components of net cash provided by (used in) financing activities for 2022 versus 2021: 1 For information regarding the sale of a membership interest to a tax equity investor, see Note 18, Variable Interest Entities. 2 For information regarding the sale of EnerBank, see Note 19, Exit Activities and Discontinued Operations . Capital Resources and Liquidity CMS Energy and Consumers expect to have sufficient liquidity to fund their present and future commitments. CMS Energy uses dividends and tax-sharing payments from its subsidiaries and external financing and capital transactions to invest in its utility and non ‑ utility businesses, retire debt, pay dividends, and fund its other obligations. The ability of CMS Energy’s subsidiaries, including Consumers, to pay dividends to CMS Energy depends upon each subsidiary’s revenues, earnings, cash needs, and other factors. In addition, Consumers’ ability to pay dividends is restricted by certain terms included in its articles of incorporation and potentially by FERC requirements and provisions under the Federal Power 66 Act and the Natural Gas Act. For additional details on Consumers’ dividend restrictions, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Financings and Capitalization—Dividend Restrictions. During the year ended December 31, 2022, Consumers paid $769 million in dividends on its common stock to CMS Energy. Consumers uses cash flows generated from operations and external financing transactions, as well as stockholder contributions from CMS Energy, to fund capital expenditures, retire debt, pay dividends, and fund its other obligations. Consumers also uses these sources of funding to contribute to its employee benefit plans. Financing and Capital Resources: CMS Energy and Consumers rely on the capital markets to fund their robust capital plan. Barring any sustained market dislocations or disruptions, CMS Energy and Consumers expect to continue to have ready access to the financial and capital markets and will continue to explore possibilities to take advantage of market opportunities as they arise with respect to future funding needs. If access to these markets were to diminish or otherwise become restricted, CMS Energy and Consumers would implement contingency plans to address debt maturities, which could include reduced capital spending. In January 2023, Consumers entered into a bond purchase agreement to issue an aggregate principal amount of $400 million of first mortgage bonds through a private placement offering. The bonds, which were priced in November 2022, carry a weighted average interest rate of 5.251 percent and mature at varying dates between 2026 and 2037. The bonds are expected to be issued in May 2023. The proceeds of the bonds will be used to finance a portion of the purchase price of the New Covert Generating Facility and for general corporate purposes. For more information on the purchase of the New Covert Generating Facility, see Consumers Electric Utility Outlook and Uncertainties — Clean Energy Plan. Also in January 2023, Consumers issued $425 million of first mortgage bonds that mature in March 2028 and bear interest at a rate of 4.650 percent. The proceeds of the bonds have been used to repay a portion of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding under Consumers’ term loan credit agreement and for general corporate purposes. For more information on Consumers’ recent financing activities, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Financings and Capitalization. Under an existing equity offering program, CMS Energy may sell shares of its common stock having an aggregate sales price of up to $500 million in privately negotiated transactions, in “at the market” offerings, through forward sales transactions, or otherwise. CMS Energy has entered into forward sales transactions under this program, which allow CMS Energy to either physically settle the contracts by issuing shares of its common stock at the then-applicable forward sale price specified by the agreement or net settle the contracts through the delivery or receipt of cash or shares. CMS Energy may settle the contracts at any time through their maturity dates, and presently intends to physically settle the contracts by delivering shares of its common stock. As of December 31, 2022, these contracts have an aggregate sales price of $439 million, maturing through February 2024. For more information on these forward sale contracts, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Financings and Capitalization—Issuance of Common Stock. At December 31, 2022, CMS Energy had $532 million of its revolving credit facility available and Consumers had $1.3 billion available under its revolving credit facilities. CMS Energy and Consumers use these credit facilities for general working capital purposes and to issue letters of credit. An additional source of liquidity is Consumers’ commercial paper program, which allows Consumers to issue, in one or more placements, up to $500 million in aggregate principal amount of commercial paper notes with 67 maturities of up to 365 days at market interest rates. These issuances are supported by Consumers’ revolving credit facilities. While the amount of outstanding commercial paper does not reduce the available capacity of the revolving credit facilities, Consumers does not intend to issue commercial paper in an amount exceeding the available capacity of the facilities. At December 31, 2022, there were $20 million of commercial paper notes outstanding under this program. Certain of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ credit agreements contain covenants that require CMS Energy and Consumers to maintain certain financial ratios, as defined therein. At December 31, 2022, no default had occurred with respect to any financial covenants contained in CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ credit agreements. CMS Energy and Consumers were each in compliance with these covenants as of December 31, 2022, as presented in the following table: 1 Applies to CMS Energy’s revolving credit agreement and letter of credit reimbursement agreement, and a term loan agreement of a subsidiary of NorthStar Clean Energy. 2 Applies to Consumers’ revolving credit agreements and term loan agreement. Material Cash Requirements: Based on the present investment plan, during 2023, Consumers projects capital expenditures of $3.7 billion. Additionally, CMS Energy’s other material cash requirements for 2023 include $3.2 billion of purchase obligations and $1.7 billion of principal and interest payments on long-term debt. Consumers’ other material cash requirements for 2023 comprise $3.0 billion of purchase obligations and $1.4 billion of principal and interest payments on long-term debt. Components of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ cash management plan include controlling operating expenses and capital expenditures and evaluating market conditions for financing and refinancing opportunities. CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ present level of cash and expected cash flows from operating activities, together with access to sources of liquidity, are anticipated to be sufficient to fund contractual obligations and other material cash requirements for 2023 and beyond. Capital Expenditures: Over the next five years, Consumers expects to make substantial capital investments. Consumers may revise its forecast of capital expenditures periodically due to a number of factors, including environmental regulations, MPSC approval or disapproval, business opportunities, market volatility, economic trends, and the ability to access capital. Presented in the following table are Consumers’ estimated capital expenditures, including lease commitments, for 2023 through 2027: 68 Other Material Cash Requirements : Presented in the following table are CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ material cash obligations from known contractual and other legal obligations: Purchase obligations arise from long-term contracts for the purchase of commodities and related services, plant purchase commitments, and construction and service agreements. The commodities and related services include long-term PPAs, natural gas and associated transportation, and coal and associated transportation. For more information on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ purchase obligations, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments—Contractual Commitments. CMS Energy, Consumers, and certain of their subsidiaries enter into various arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include indemnities, surety bonds, letters of credit, and financial and performance guarantees. For additional details on indemnity and guarantee arrangements, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments—Guarantees. For additional details on letters of credit and CMS Energy’s forward sales contracts, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 4, Financings and Capitalization. Outlook Several business trends and uncertainties may affect CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial condition and results of operations. These trends and uncertainties could have a material impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ consolidated income, cash flows, or financial position. For additional details regarding these and other uncertainties, see Forward-Looking Statements and Information; Item 1A. Risk Factors; and Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2, Regulatory Matters and Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments. Consumers Electric Utility Outlook and Uncertainties Clean Energy Plan: Consumers’ Clean Energy Plan details its strategy to meet customers’ long-term energy needs and provides the foundation for its goal to achieve net-zero carbon emissions from its electric business by 2040. Under this net-zero goal, Consumers plans to eliminate the impact of carbon 69 emissions created by the electricity it generates or purchases for customers. Additionally, through its Clean Energy Plan, Consumers continues to make progress on expanding its customer programs, namely its demand response, energy efficiency, and conservation voltage reduction programs, as well as increasing its renewable energy and pumped storage generation. The Clean Energy Plan was originally outlined in Consumers’ 2018 IRP, which was approved by the MPSC in 2019. In June 2021, Consumers filed its 2021 IRP with the MPSC, proposing updates to the Clean Energy Plan. In April 2022, Consumers and a broad coalition of key stakeholders, including customer groups, environmental organizations, the MPSC Staff, energy industry representatives, and the Michigan Attorney General, filed a settlement agreement with the MPSC resolving Consumers’ 2021 IRP. The MPSC approved that settlement agreement in June 2022. Under its 2021 IRP, Consumers will eliminate the use of coal-fueled generation in 2025 and expects to meet 90 percent of its customers’ needs with clean energy sources by 2040. Specifically, the 2021 IRP provides for: • the retirement of the D.E. Karn coal-fueled generating units, totaling 515 MW of nameplate capacity, in 2023 • the retirement of the J.H. Campbell coal-fueled generating units, totaling 1,407 MW of nameplate capacity, in 2025 • the retirement of the D.E. Karn oil and gas-fueled generating units, totaling 1,219 MW of nameplate capacity, in 2031, the units’ original retirement date The MPSC has authorized Consumers to issue securitization bonds to finance the recovery of and return on the D.E. Karn coal-fueled generating units. Under the 2021 IRP, Consumers will receive regulatory asset treatment to recover the remaining book value of the J.H. Campbell coal-fueled generating units, as well as a 9.0‑percent return on equity, commencing in 2025. Under the 2021 IRP, Consumers will bridge the transition away from coal generation with: • the purchase of the New Covert Generating Facility, a natural gas-fueled generating unit with 1,176 MW of nameplate capacity in Van Buren County, Michigan, for $815 million, subject to certain adjustments, in 2023; the purchase was approved by FERC in November 2022 • a one-time competitive solicitation to acquire approximately 700 MW of capacity through PPAs from sources able to deliver to Michigan’s Lower Peninsula beginning in 2025; of this amount, 500 MW would be from dispatchable sources These actions are expected to allow Consumers to continue providing controllable sources of electricity to customers while expanding its investment in renewable energy. The 2021 IRP forecasts renewable energy capacity levels of 30 percent in 2025, 43 percent in 2030, and 61 percent in 2040, including the addition of nearly 8,000 MW of solar generation. Additionally, the 2021 IRP will accelerate Consumers’ deployment of battery storage from 2030 to 2024, with 75 MW of energy storage by 2027 and an additional 475 MW by 2040. Under its 2021 IRP, Consumers will continue to bid new capacity competitively and will own and operate approximately 50 percent of new capacity, with the remainder being built and owned by third parties. Additionally, Consumers will continue to earn a return equal to its weighted-average cost of capital on payments made under new competitively bid PPAs approved by the MPSC. 70 As a result of requests for proposals, Consumers has entered into PPAs to purchase renewable capacity, energy, and RECs from solar generating facilities and build transfer agreements to purchase solar generating facilities. Presented in the following illustration is the aggregate renewable capacity that Consumers expects to add to its portfolio as a result of these agreements: In support of its 2021 IRP, Consumers issued a request for proposals in September 2022 to acquire approximately 700 MW of capacity through PPAs from sources able to deliver to Michigan’s Lower Peninsula beginning in 2025. Specifically, Consumers solicited offers to acquire 500 MW of capacity from dispatchable sources and 200 MW of capacity from intermittent resources and dispatchable, non-intermittent clean capacity resources (including battery storage resources). In March 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced it is opening inquiries into whether manufacturers of solar modules that are produced in certain countries using supplies obtained from China are circumventing antidumping and countervailing duties which apply to Chinese modules. The U.S. Department of Commerce has made an initial determination that four manufacturers have circumvented tariffs. The remainder of this inquiry process is expected to continue through at least the first half of 2023. In June 2022, the Biden Administration paused for two years the imposition of duties that might result from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s pending inquiries. In addition, the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, which was enacted in December 2021 and became effective in June 2022, along with an earlier withhold release order that U.S. Customs and Border Protection issued in mid-2021, restrict the importation of goods sourced from the Xinjiang region of China. Solar modules whose raw materials come from the Xinjiang region are a key focus of these import laws. Consumers continues to closely monitor these matters and their potential impacts on availability of solar modules and timing associated with pending and planned solar projects. Renewable Energy Plan: The 2016 Energy Law raised the renewable energy standard to 15 percent in 2021. Consumers is required to submit RECs, which represent proof that the associated electricity was generated from a renewable energy resource, in an amount equal to at least 15 percent of Consumers’ electric sales volume each year. Under its renewable energy plan, Consumers has met the 15 ‑ percent 71 requirement and expects to continue meeting the requirement going forward with a combination of newly generated RECs and previously generated RECs carried over from prior years. Under Consumers’ renewable energy plan, the MPSC has approved the acquisition of up to 525 MW of new wind generation projects and authorized Consumers to earn a 10.7 ‑ percent return on equity on any projects approved by the MPSC. Specifically, the MPSC has approved the following: • purchase and construction of a 150 ‑ MW wind generation project in Gratiot County, Michigan; the project became operational and Consumers took full ownership in 2020 • purchase of a 166 ‑ MW wind generation project in Hillsdale, Michigan; the project became operational and Consumers took full ownership in February 2021 • purchase of a wind generation project under development, with capacity of up to 201 MW, in Gratiot County, Michigan; Consumers expects to take full ownership and begin commercial operation of the project in 2023 The MPSC also approved the execution of a 20-year PPA under which Consumers will purchase 100 MW of renewable capacity, energy, and RECs from a 149 ‑ MW solar generating facility to be constructed in Calhoun County, Michigan; the facility is targeted to be operational in 2024. Voluntary Large Customer Renewable Energy Program: Consumers provides service under a program that provides large full-service electric customers with the opportunity to advance the development of renewable energy beyond the requirements of the 2016 Energy Law. In September 2021, the MPSC approved Consumers’ request to amend its renewable energy plan to remove the annual subscription limit associated with this program. The MPSC also approved up to 1,000 MW of new wind and solar generation projects between 2024 and 2027 to meet customer demand for the program. Consumers will competitively solicit for additional renewable energy assets based on customer applications and will construct the assets based on customer subscriptions to the program. Electric Customer Deliveries and Revenue: Consumers’ electric customer deliveries are seasonal and largely dependent on Michigan’s economy. The consumption of electric energy typically increases in the summer months, due primarily to the use of air conditioners and other cooling equipment. In addition, Consumers’ electric rates, which follow a seasonal rate design, are higher in the summer months than in the remaining months of the year. Each year in June, electric residential customers transition to a summer peak time-of-use rate that allows them to take advantage of lower-cost energy during off-peak times during the summer months. Thus, customers can reduce their electric bills by shifting their consumption from on‑peak to off‑peak times. Over the next five years, Consumers expects weather-normalized electric deliveries to remain relatively stable compared to 2022. This outlook reflects the effects of energy waste reduction programs offset largely by modest growth in electric demand. Actual delivery levels will depend on: • energy conservation measures and results of energy waste reduction programs • weather fluctuations • Michigan’s economic conditions, including utilization, expansion, or contraction of manufacturing facilities, population trends, electric vehicle adoption, and housing activity Electric ROA: Michigan law allows electric customers in Consumers’ service territory to buy electric generation service from alternative electric suppliers in an aggregate amount capped at ten percent of Consumers’ sales, with certain exceptions. At December 31, 2022, electric deliveries under the ROA program were at the ten‑percent limit. Of Consumers’ 1.9 million electric customers, fewer than 300, or 0.02 percent, purchased electric generation service under the ROA program. 72 The 2016 Energy Law established a path to ensure that forward capacity is secured for all electric customers in Michigan, including customers served by alternative electric suppliers under ROA. The law also authorized the MPSC to ensure that alternative electric suppliers have procured enough capacity to cover their anticipated capacity requirements for the four-year forward period. In 2017, the MPSC issued an order establishing a state reliability mechanism for Consumers. Under this mechanism, if an alternative electric supplier does not demonstrate that it has procured its capacity requirements for the four-year forward period, its customers will pay a set charge to the utility for capacity that is not provided by the alternative electric supplier. During 2017, the MPSC issued orders finding that it has statutory authority to determine and implement a local clearing requirement, which requires all electric suppliers to demonstrate that a portion of the capacity procured to serve customers during peak demand times is located in the MISO footprint in Michigan’s Lower Peninsula. In 2020, the Michigan Supreme Court affirmed the MPSC’s statutory authority to implement a local clearing requirement on individual electric providers. In 2020, ABATE and another intervenor filed a complaint against the MPSC in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan challenging the constitutionality of a local clearing requirement. The complaint requests the federal court to issue a permanent injunction prohibiting the MPSC from implementing a local clearing requirement on individual electric providers. Consumers filed a motion to intervene and defend the local clearing requirement in that federal litigation; this motion was granted in January 2021 and the complaint is pending decision by the court after a non-jury trial. Electric Rate Matters: Rate matters are critical to Consumers’ electric utility business. For additional details on rate matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2, Regulatory Matters and Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments. MPSC Reliability Report and Audit: In October 2022, the MPSC ordered the state’s two largest electric utilities, including Consumers, to report on their compliance with regulations and past MPSC orders governing the utilities’ response to outages and downed lines. Also, the MPSC Staff was directed to engage a third-party auditor to review all equipment and operations of the two utilities’ distribution systems. Consumers has responded to the MPSC’s order and awaits further action by the MPSC. Consumers is committed to working with other state utilities, the third-party auditor, and the MPSC to continue improving electric reliability and safety in Michigan. 2022 Electric Rate Case: In April 2022, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC seeking a rate increase of $272 million, based on a 10.25-percent authorized return on equity for the projected twelve-month period ending December 31, 2023. In September 2022, Consumers revised its requested increase to $292 million. The filing requested authority to recover future investments associated with distribution system reliability, solar generation, environmental compliance, and enhanced technology. In January 2023, the MPSC approved a settlement agreement authorizing an annual rate increase of $155 million, based on a 9.9-percent authorized return on equity. The MPSC also approved a surcharge for the recovery of $6 million of depreciation, property tax, and interest expense related to distribution investments made in 2021 that exceeded what was authorized in rates in accordance with the December 2020 electric rate order. Additionally, the approved settlement provides for a pension and OPEB tracker that will allow Consumers to defer the future recovery or refund of pension and OPEB expenses above or below the amounts used to set existing rates, respectively. For additional details on the 73 settlement agreement, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2, Regulatory Matters. PSCR Plan: Consumers submitted its 2023 PSCR plan to the MPSC in September 2022. As a result of higher-than-normal power supply costs during 2022, Consumers included a projection of its full-year 2022 underrecovery in its 2023 PSCR plan. In accordance with its proposed plan, Consumers self-implemented the 2023 PSCR charge beginning in January 2023. In January 2023, Consumers filed a motion for a temporary order in its 2023 PSCR plan, requesting that the MPSC approve only a third of the 2022 underrecovery amount for recovery in 2023, with the remaining amount to be recovered equally during 2024 and 2025. Recovering the 2022 underrecovery over three years will provide immediate relief to electric customers, and the financial impact will be neutral to Consumers’ earnings. For additional details, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2, Regulatory Matters. Retention Incentive Program: Under its Clean Energy Plan, Consumers will retire the D.E. Karn coal-fueled electric generating units in 2023. In 2019, Consumers announced a retention incentive program to ensure necessary staffing at the D.E. Karn generating complex through the anticipated retirement of the coal-fueled generating units. Based on the number of employees that have chosen to participate, the aggregate cost of the program through 2023 is estimated to be $35 million. In its order in Consumers’ 2020 electric rate case, the MPSC approved deferred accounting treatment for these costs. Consumers expects to recognize $2 million of retention benefit costs in 2023; this expense will be deferred as a regulatory asset. Under the 2021 IRP, Consumers will retire the J.H. Campbell coal-fueled generating units in 2025. Similar to the D.E. Karn program, Consumers is providing a retention incentive program to ensure necessary staffing at the J.H. Campbell generating complex through retirement. Based on the number of employees that have chosen to participate, the aggregate cost of the program through 2025 is estimated to be $50 million. Consumers expects to recognize $16 million of retention benefit costs in 2023. The 2021 IRP provides deferred accounting treatment for retention costs recognized during 2022; deferral of costs beyond 2022 was approved as part of the 2022 electric rate case settlement. For additional details on these programs, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 19, Exit Activities and Discontinued Operations. Electric Environmental Outlook: Consumers’ electric operations are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. Consumers estimates that it will incur capital expenditures of $210 million from 2023 through 2027 to continue to comply with RCRA, the Clean Air Act, and numerous other environmental regulations. Consumers expects to recover these costs in customer rates, but cannot guarantee this result. Multiple environmental laws and regulations are subject to litigation. Consumers’ primary environmental compliance focus includes, but is not limited to, the following matters. Air Quality: Multiple air quality regulations apply, or may apply, to Consumers’ electric utility. In 2012, the EPA published emission standards for electric generating units, known as MATS, based on Section 112 of the Clean Air Act. Consumers has complied, and continues to comply, with the MATS regulation, and does not expect MATS to materially impact its environmental strategy. CSAPR requires Michigan and many other states to improve air quality by reducing power plant emissions that, according to EPA modeling, contribute to ground-level ozone in other downwind states. Since its 2015 effective date, CSAPR has been revised several times. One such revision made in 2021 74 provided updated emission reductions through 2024 from electric generating units in 12 states, including Michigan. Consumers believes the impact of this rule on its generation operations should be minimal. In March 2022, the EPA proposed another revision to CSAPR that affects Michigan. If finalized as proposed, this revision would reduce nitrogen oxides allowance budgets beginning in 2023 and would change the mechanism for allocating such allowances on a year-over-year basis. While prior CSAPR regulations have primarily focused on electric generating units, this latest proposal also includes other sources of nitrogen oxides emissions. If the EPA finalizes the proposed CSAPR revision in its current form, Consumers may incur significant costs in allowance purchases and/or equipment retrofits. Consumers will continue to monitor this rulemaking and its impact on Consumers’ electric operations. In 2015, the EPA lowered the NAAQS for ozone and made it more difficult to construct or modify power plants and other emission sources in areas of the country that do not meet the ozone standard. In 2018, the EPA designated certain areas of Michigan as not meeting the ozone standard. None of Consumers’ fossil-fuel-fired generating units are located in these areas. Additionally, in January 2023, the EPA proposed lowering the NAAQS for particulate matter. Consumers will continue to monitor NAAQS rulemakings and evaluate potential impacts to its generating assets. Consumers’ strategy to comply with air quality statutes and regulations involved the installation and operation of emission control equipment at some facilities and the suspension of operations at others; however, Consumers continues to evaluate these rules in conjunction with other EPA and EGLE rulemakings, litigation, executive orders, treaties, and congressional actions. This evaluation could result in: • a change in Consumers’ fuel mix • changes in the types of generating units Consumers may purchase or build in the future • changes in how certain units are operated • the retirement, mothballing, or repowering with an alternative fuel of some of Consumers’ generating units • changes in Consumers’ environmental compliance costs • the purchase or sale of allowances Greenhouse Gases: There have been numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives at the state, regional, national, and international levels that involve the potential regulation and reporting of greenhouse gases. Consumers continues to monitor and comment on these initiatives, as appropriate. In June 2022, the EPA announced its plan to propose a new rule to address greenhouse gas emissions from existing fossil-fuel-fired electric generating units. Under its 2021 IRP, Consumers will eliminate the use of coal-fueled generation in 2025. Therefore, it is unlikely that the proposed rule will materially impact Consumers over the remaining operating lives of these coal-fueled facilities. However, Consumers cannot predict the form and extent of such potential regulation on its natural gas-fueled generation until this rule is released. Under the Paris Agreement, an international agreement addressing greenhouse gas emissions, the U.S. has committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 to 52 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. Under its 2021 IRP, Consumers plans to reduce carbon emissions from its electric business by 60 percent from 2005 levels in 2025. At this time, Consumers does not expect any adverse changes to its environmental strategy as a result of these events, as its plans exceed the nationally committed reduction. The commitment made by the U.S. is not binding without new Congressional legislation. In 2020, Michigan’s Governor signed an executive order creating the Michigan Healthy Climate Plan, which outlines goals for Michigan to achieve economy-wide net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and to be 75 carbon neutral by 2050. The executive order aims for a 28 ‑ percent reduction below 2005 levels of greenhouse gas emissions by 2025. These goals are aspirational in nature and any changes in law or regulation to achieve these goals would need to be approved by the Michigan Legislature or the relevant regulatory agency. Additionally, Consumers has already surpassed the 28 ‑ percent reduction milestone for its owned electric generation and previously announced a goal of achieving net-zero carbon emissions from its electric business by 2040. Consumers does not expect any adverse changes to its environmental strategy as a result of these events. Increased frequency or intensity of severe or extreme weather events, including those due to climate change, could materially impact Consumers’ facilities, energy sales, and results of operations. Consumers is unable to predict these events or their financial impact; however, Consumers evaluates the potential physical impacts of climate change on its operations, including increased frequency or intensity of storm activity; increased precipitation; increased temperature; and changes in lake and river levels. Consumers released a report addressing the physical risks of climate change on its infrastructure in February 2022. Consumers is taking steps to mitigate these risks as appropriate. While Consumers cannot predict the outcome of changes in U.S. policy or of other legislative, executive, or regulatory initiatives involving the potential regulation or reporting of greenhouse gases, it intends to move forward with its Clean Energy Plan, its present net-zero goals, and its emphasis on reliable and resilient supply. Litigation, international treaties, executive orders, federal laws and regulations (including regulations by the EPA), and state laws and regulations, if enacted or ratified, could ultimately impact Consumers. Consumers may be required to: • replace equipment • install additional emission control equipment • purchase emission allowances or credits (including potential greenhouse gas offset credits) • curtail operations • arrange for alternative sources of supply • purchase facilities that generate fewer emissions • mothball or retire facilities that generate certain emissions • pursue energy efficiency or demand response measures more swiftly • take other steps to manage or lower the emission of greenhouse gases Although associated capital or operating costs relating to greenhouse gas regulation or legislation could be material and cost recovery cannot be assured, Consumers expects to recover these costs in rates consistent with the recovery of other reasonable costs of complying with environmental laws and regulations. CCRs: In 2015, the EPA published a rule regulating CCRs under RCRA. This rule adopts minimum standards for beneficially using and disposing of non‑hazardous CCRs and establishes technical requirements for CCR landfills and surface impoundments. The rule also sets out conditions under which some CCR units would be forced to cease receiving CCR wastewater and initiate closure. Due to litigation, many aspects of the rule have been remanded to the EPA, resulting in more proposed and final rules. Anticipated litigation related to remanded aspects will add uncertainty around requirements for compliance and state permit programs. In 2020, the EPA amended the conditions of forced closure and required all unlined surface impoundments to initiate closure by mid-2021, unless conditions that satisfied an alternate closure schedule were approved by the EPA. Consumers, with agreement from EGLE, completed the work necessary to initiate closure by excavating CCRs or placing a final cover over each of its relevant CCR units prior to the closure initiation deadline. 76 Separately, Congress passed legislation in 2016 allowing participating states to develop permitting programs for CCRs under RCRA Subtitle D. In 2018, the Michigan Legislature adopted standards for a permitting program, which requires the EPA’s authorization. In 2020, EGLE submitted a regulatory package for Michigan’s permit program to the EPA for its review, which is still pending. Federal rulemaking challenges may delay EPA approval of the Michigan permitting program. Consumers has historically been authorized to recover in electric rates costs related to coal ash disposal sites. Water: Multiple water-related regulations apply, or may apply, to Consumers. The EPA regulates cooling water intake systems of existing electric generating plants under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act. The rules seek to reduce alleged harmful impacts on aquatic organisms, such as fish. In 2018, Consumers submitted to EGLE for approval all required studies and recommended plans to comply with Section 316(b), but has not yet received final approval. The EPA also regulates the discharge of wastewater through its effluent limitation guidelines for steam electric generating plants. In 2020, the EPA revised previous guidelines related to the discharge of certain wastewater, but allowed for extension of the compliance deadline from the end of 2023 to the end of 2025, upon approval by EGLE through the NPDES permitting process. Consumers received such an extension to 2025 for its J.H. Campbell generating facility, which it plans to retire in 2025. Consumers does not expect any adverse changes to its environmental strategy as a result of these revisions or any litigation of the guidelines. In recent years, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers have proposed changes to the scope of federal jurisdiction over bodies of water and to the frequency of dual jurisdiction in states with authority to regulate the same waters; Michigan is one such state. Additionally, a final 2022 rulemaking changed the definition of “Waters of the United States.” Consumers does not expect adverse changes to its environmental strategy as a result of the current interpretations. Many of Consumers’ facilities maintain NPDES permits, which are vital to the facilities’ operations. Consumers applies for renewal of these permits every five years. Failure of EGLE to renew any NPDES permit, a successful appeal against a permit, a change in the interpretation or scope of NPDES permitting, or onerous terms contained in a permit could have a significant detrimental effect on the operations of a facility. Protected Wildlife: Multiple regulations apply, or may apply, to Consumers relating to protected species and habitats. Statutes like the federal Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act may impact operations at Consumers’ facilities. In 2021, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announced its intent to regulate incidental take under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. Any resulting permitting and monitoring fees and/or restrictions on operations could impact Consumers’ existing and future operations, including wind and solar generation facilities. Additionally, Consumers is monitoring proposed changes to the listing status of several species within its operational area due to an increase in wildlife-related regulatory activity at federal and state levels. A change in species listed under the Endangered Species Act may impact Consumers’ costs to mitigate its impact on protected species and habitats at certain existing facilities as well as siting choices for new facilities. 77 Other Matters: Other electric environmental matters could have a material impact on Consumers’ outlook. For additional details on other electric environmental matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments—Consumers Electric Utility Contingencies—Electric Environmental Matters. Consumers Gas Utility Outlook and Uncertainties Gas Deliveries: Consumers’ gas customer deliveries are seasonal. The peak demand for natural gas typically occurs in the winter due to colder temperatures and the resulting use of natural gas as heating fuel. Over the next five years, Consumers expects weather-normalized gas deliveries to remain stable relative to 2022. This outlook reflects the effects of energy waste reduction programs offset largely by modest growth in gas demand. Actual delivery levels will depend on: • weather fluctuations • use by power producers • availability and development of renewable energy sources • gas price changes • Michigan’s economic conditions, including population trends and housing activity • the price or demand of competing energy sources or fuels • energy efficiency and conservation impacts Gas Rate Matters: Rate matters are critical to Consumers’ gas utility business. For additional details on rate matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2, Regulatory Matters and Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments. 2022 Gas Rate Case: In December 2022, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC seeking an annual rate increase of $212 million, based on a 10.25-percent authorized return on equity for the projected twelve-month period ending September 30, 2024. The filing requests authority to recover new infrastructure investment and related costs that are expected to allow Consumers to improve system safety and reliability and reduce fugitive methane emissions. Presented in the following table are the components of the requested increase in revenue: The filing also seeks approval of a pension and OPEB tracker that will allow Consumers to defer for future recovery or refund pension and OPEB expense above the amounts used to set existing rates and an uncollectible deferral/refund mechanism. Postretirement Benefits Expense Accounting Application: In January 2023, Consumers filed an application with the MPSC, requesting authority to defer the future recovery or refund of pension and OPEB expenses above or below the amounts used to set existing rates, respectively. Consumers requested this accounting treatment to begin in 2023 and to continue until rates are reset in the 2022 gas rate case. 78 Depreciation Rate Case: In December 2021, Consumers filed a depreciation case related to its gas utility plant property. In this case, Consumers requested a decrease in depreciation expense of $1 million annually based on December 31, 2020 balances. In September 2022, the MPSC approved a settlement agreement authorizing a decrease in depreciation expense of $29 million annually. The decrease in depreciation expense will become effective concurrent with Consumers’ 2022 gas rate case. GCR Plan: Consumers submitted its 2023-2024 GCR plan to the MPSC in December 2022 and, in accordance with its proposed plan, expects to self-implement the 2023-2024 GCR charge beginning in April 2023. Gas Pipeline and Storage Integrity and Safety: The U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration has published various rules that expand federal safety standards for gas transmission pipelines and underground storage facilities. Initial requirements took effect in 2020, with future regulation phases to be released over numerous years. To comply with these rules, Consumers will incur increased capital and operating and maintenance costs to install and remediate pipelines and to expand inspections, maintenance, and monitoring of its existing pipelines and storage facilities. Although associated capital or operating and maintenance costs relating to these regulations could be material and cost recovery cannot be assured, Consumers expects to recover such costs in rates consistent with the recovery of other reasonable costs of complying with laws and regulations. Gas Environmental Outlook: Consumers expects to incur response activity costs at a number of sites, including 23 former MGP sites. For additional details, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments—Consumers Gas Utility Contingencies—Gas Environmental Matters. Consumers’ gas operations are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. Multiple environmental laws and regulations are subject to litigation. Consumers’ primary environmental compliance focus includes, but is not limited to, the following matters. Air Quality: Multiple air quality regulations apply, or may apply, to Consumers’ gas utility. In 2015, the EPA lowered the NAAQS for ozone and made it more difficult to construct or modify natural gas compressor stations and other emission sources in areas of the country that do not meet the ozone standard. In 2018, the EPA designated certain areas of Michigan as not meeting the ozone standard. Seven counties in southeastern Michigan were not in attainment with the ozone standard by a 2021 regulatory deadline, and thus may have their ozone nonattainment designations increased from marginal to moderate. The EPA also recently elevated the nonattainment status of three counties in western Michigan from marginal to moderate. Some of Consumers’ compressor stations are located in these areas. Consumers expects to incur costs to retrofit equipment to lower emissions at some of its compressor stations located in the nonattainment areas. In March 2022, the EPA proposed a revision to CSAPR that affects Michigan. This proposed rule seeks to reduce interstate air pollution transport issues that EPA modeling suggests contribute to downwind states attaining or maintaining compliance with the NAAQS for ozone. While prior CSAPR regulations have primarily focused on electric generating units, the proposed rule includes other emission sources, including engines at natural gas compressor stations. If the EPA finalizes the proposed CSAPR revision in its current form, Consumers may incur costs to retrofit or replace equipment at some compressor stations. Greenhouse Gases: There is increasing interest at the federal, state, and local levels in potential regulation of greenhouse gases or their sources. Such regulation, if adopted, may involve requirements to reduce 79 methane emissions from Consumers’ gas utility operations and carbon dioxide emissions from customer use of natural gas. No such measures apply to Consumers at this time. In 2020, Michigan’s Governor signed an executive order creating the Michigan Healthy Climate Plan, which outlines goals for Michigan to achieve economy-wide net-zero greenhouse gas emissions and to be carbon neutral by 2050. The executive order aims for a 28 ‑ percent reduction below 2005 levels of greenhouse gas emissions by 2025. For additional details on the executive order, see Consumers Electric Utility Outlook and Uncertainties—Electric Environmental Outlook. Under the Paris Agreement, an international agreement addressing greenhouse gas emissions, the U.S. has committed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50 to 52 percent from 2005 levels by 2030. The commitment made by the U.S. is not binding without new Congressional legislation. Consumers continues to monitor these initiatives and comment as appropriate. Consumers cannot predict the impact of any potential future legislation or regulation on its gas utility. Consumers is making voluntary efforts to reduce its gas utility’s methane emissions. Under its Methane Reduction Plan, Consumers has set a goal of net-zero methane emissions from its natural gas delivery system by 2030. Consumers plans to reduce methane emissions from its system by about 80 percent by accelerating the replacement of aging pipe, rehabilitating or retiring outdated infrastructure, and adopting new technologies and practices. The remaining emissions will likely be offset by purchasing and/or producing renewable natural gas. To date, Consumers has reduced methane emissions by more than 20 percent from a 2012 baseline. In March 2022, Consumers also announced a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions target for its entire natural gas system by 2050. This includes suppliers and customers, and has an interim goal of reducing customer emissions by 20 percent by 2030. Consumers’ Natural Gas Delivery Plan, a 10-year strategic investment plan to deliver safe, reliable, clean, and affordable natural gas to customers, outlines ways in which Consumers can make early progress toward these goals in a cost-effective manner, including energy waste reduction or energy efficiency, carbon offsets, and renewable natural gas supply. Consumers has already initiated work in these key areas, continuing to expand its energy waste reduction targets, launching a program allowing gas customers to purchase carbon offset credits on a voluntary basis, and announcing plans to begin development of a renewable natural gas facility that will capture methane from manure generated at a Michigan-based farm and convert it into renewable natural gas. Consumers is evaluating and monitoring newer technologies to determine their role in achieving Consumers’ interim and long-term net-zero goals, including hydrogen, biofuels, and synthetic methane; carbon capture sequestration systems; and other innovative technologies. Over the long term, Consumers will incorporate technological advances, policy-driven incentives, and other influencing factors into its compliance, investment planning, and decarbonization strategy in order to achieve these net-zero methane and greenhouse gas emissions goals. NorthStar Clean Energy Outlook and Uncertainties CMS Energy’s primary focus with respect to its NorthStar Clean Energy businesses is to maximize the value of generating assets, its share of which represents 1,478 MW of capacity, and to pursue opportunities for the development of renewable generation projects. NorthStar Clean Energy’s operations may be subject to various federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. Multiple environmental laws and regulations are subject to litigation. NorthStar Clean Energy’s primary environmental compliance focus includes, but is not limited to, the following matters. 80 In 2015, the EPA lowered the NAAQS for ozone and made it more difficult to construct or modify power plants and other emission sources in areas of the country that do not meet the ozone standard. In 2018, the EPA designated certain areas of Michigan as not meeting the ozone standard. Seven counties in southeastern Michigan were not in attainment with the ozone standard by a 2021 regulatory deadline, and thus may have their ozone nonattainment designations increased from marginal to moderate. The DIG plant is within one of these counties and, as a result, may be subject to additional permitting restrictions in the event of any future increase in the nonattainment designation. In March 2022, the EPA proposed a revision to CSAPR that affects Michigan. This proposed rule seeks to reduce interstate air pollution transport issues that EPA modeling suggests contribute to downwind states attaining or maintaining compliance with the NAAQS for ozone. If the EPA finalizes the proposed CSAPR revision in its current form, NorthStar Clean Energy may incur significant costs in allowance purchases and equipment retrofits. NorthStar Clean Energy will continue to monitor this rulemaking and its impact on its emission sources. Many of NorthStar Clean Energy’s facilities maintain NPDES permits, which are vital to the facilities’ operations. NorthStar Clean Energy applies for renewal of these permits every five years. Failure of EGLE to renew any NPDES permit, a successful appeal against a permit, a change in the interpretation or scope of NPDES permitting, or onerous terms contained in a permit could have a significant detrimental effect on the operations of a facility. For additional details regarding the new ozone NAAQS or CSAPR rule, see Consumers Electric Utility Outlook and Uncertainties—Electric Environmental Outlook. Trends, uncertainties, and other matters related to NorthStar Clean Energy that could have a material impact on CMS Energy’s consolidated income, cash flows, or financial position include: • investment in and financial benefits received from renewable energy and energy storage projects • changes in energy and capacity prices • severe weather events and climate change associated with increasing levels of greenhouse gases • changes in commodity prices on certain derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting and must be marked to market through earnings • changes in various environmental laws, regulations, principles, or practices, or in their interpretation • indemnity obligations assumed in connection with ownership interests in facilities that involve tax equity financing • representations, warranties, and indemnities provided by CMS Energy in connection with sales of assets • delays or difficulties in obtaining environmental permits for facilities located in areas associated with environmental justice concerns 81 In March 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced it is opening inquiries into whether manufacturers of solar modules that are produced in certain countries using supplies obtained from China are circumventing antidumping and countervailing duties which apply to Chinese modules. The U.S. Department of Commerce has made an initial determination that four manufacturers have circumvented tariffs. The remainder of this inquiry process is expected to continue through at least the first half of 2023. In June 2022, the Biden Administration paused for two years the imposition of duties that might result from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s pending inquiries. In addition, the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, which was enacted in December 2021 and became effective in June 2022, along with an earlier withhold release order that U.S. Customs and Border Protection issued in mid-2021, restrict the importation of goods sourced from the Xinjiang region of China. Solar modules whose raw materials come from the Xinjiang region are a key focus of these import laws. CMS Energy continues to closely monitor these matters and their potential impacts on availability of solar modules and timing associated with pending and planned solar projects. For additional details regarding NorthStar Clean Energy’s uncertainties, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments—Guarantees. Other Outlook and Uncertainties Litigation: CMS Energy, Consumers, and certain of their subsidiaries are named as parties in various litigation matters, as well as in administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental agencies, arising in the ordinary course of business. For additional details regarding these and other legal matters, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2, Regulatory Matters and Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments. Employee Separation Program: In April 2022, CMS Energy and Consumers announced a voluntary separation program for salaried non-union employees. For the year ended December 31, 2022, CMS Energy and Consumers recorded an after-tax charge of $8 million related to the program, under which more than 170 employees accepted and were approved for early separation. As a result of the program, CMS Energy and Consumers expect to benefit from future cost savings, as employee staffing levels will be better matched to workload demand, which reflects the companies’ ongoing workforce productivity improvements. Tax Legislation: CMS Energy and Consumers are subject to changing tax laws. In August 2022, President Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act. Among other things, this Act expands production tax credits and investment tax credits, allows for the transferability of such credits, and implements a 15 ‑ percent corporate alternative minimum tax on companies with an average adjusted financial statement income of more than $1.0 billion. While CMS Energy and Consumers are still assessing the overall impacts of the bill, they have determined they will not be subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax in 2023, and do not believe the corporate alternative minimum tax will have a material impact on their business. 82 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following information is important to understand CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ results of operations and financial condition. For additional accounting policies, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 1, Significant Accounting Policies. In the preparation of CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ consolidated financial statements, estimates and assumptions are used that may affect reported amounts and disclosures. CMS Energy and Consumers use accounting estimates for asset valuations, unbilled revenue, depreciation, amortization, financial and derivative instruments, employee benefits, stock-based compensation, the effects of regulation, indemnities, contingencies, and AROs. Actual results may differ from estimated results due to changes in the regulatory environment, regulatory decisions, lawsuits, competition, and other factors. CMS Energy and Consumers consider all relevant factors in making these assessments. Accounting for the Effects of Industry Regulation: Because Consumers has regulated operations, it uses regulatory accounting to recognize the effects of the regulators’ decisions on its financial statements. Consumers continually assesses whether future recovery of its regulatory assets is probable by considering communications and experience with its regulators and changes in the regulatory environment. If Consumers determined that recovery of a regulatory asset were not probable, Consumers would be required to write off the asset and immediately recognize the expense in earnings. Contingencies: CMS Energy and Consumers make judgments regarding the future outcome of various matters that give rise to contingent liabilities. For such matters, they record liabilities when they are considered probable and reasonably estimable, based on all available information. In particular, CMS Energy and Consumers are participating in various environmental remediation projects for which they have recorded liabilities. The recorded amounts represent estimates that may take into account such considerations as the number of sites, the anticipated scope, cost, and timing of remediation work, the available technology, applicable regulations, and the requirements of governmental authorities. For remediation projects in which the timing of estimated expenditures is considered reliably determinable, CMS Energy and Consumers record the liability at its net present value, using a discount rate equal to the interest rate on monetary assets that are essentially risk-free and have maturities comparable to that of the environmental liability. The amount recorded for any contingency may differ from actual costs incurred when the contingency is resolved. For additional details, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 3, Contingencies and Commitments. Derivative Instruments: CMS Energy and Consumers account for certain contracts as derivative instruments. If a contract is a derivative and does not qualify for the normal purchases and sales exception, it is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at its fair value. At CMS Energy, if the derivative is accounted for as a cash flow hedge, unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in AOCI and subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged transactions impact earnings. If the derivative is accounted for as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative and changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. For the FTRs at Consumers, changes in fair value are deferred as regulatory assets or liabilities. The criteria used to determine if an instrument qualifies for derivative accounting or for an exception from derivative accounting are complex and often require judgment in application. Changes in business strategies or market conditions, as well as a requirement to apply different interpretations of the derivative accounting literature, could result in changes in accounting for a single contract or groups of contracts, 83 which could have a material impact on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ financial statements. For additional details on CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ derivatives and how the fair values of derivatives are determined, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 5, Fair Value Measurements. Income Taxes: The amount of income taxes paid by CMS Energy is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities, which can result in proposed assessments. An estimate of the potential outcome of any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. CMS Energy believes adequate reserves have been provided for these exposures; however, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. Additionally, CMS Energy’s judgment as to the ability to recover its deferred tax assets may change. CMS Energy believes the valuation allowances related to its deferred tax assets are adequate, but future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments. As a result, CMS Energy’s effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly over time. For additional details, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 12, Income Taxes. Pension and OPEB: CMS Energy and Consumers provide retirement pension benefits to certain employees under non‑contributory DB Pension Plans, and they provide postretirement health and life benefits to qualifying retired employees under an OPEB Plan. CMS Energy and Consumers record liabilities for pension and OPEB on their consolidated balance sheets at the present value of the future obligations, net of any plan assets. The calculation of the liabilities and associated expenses requires the expertise of actuaries, and requires many assumptions, including: • life expectancies • discount rates • expected long-term rate of return on plan assets • rate of compensation increases • expected health care costs A change in these assumptions could change significantly CMS Energy’s and Consumers’ recorded liabilities and associated expenses. 84 Presented in the following table are estimates of credits and cash contributions through 2025 for the DB Pension Plans and OPEB Pl an. Actual future costs, credits, and contributions will depend on future investment performance, discount rates, and various factors related to the participants of the DB Pension Plans and OPEB Plan. CMS Energy and Consumers will, at a minimum, contribute to the plans as needed to comply with federal funding requirements. 1 Consumers’ pension and OPEB costs are recoverable through its general ratemaking process. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on the assets of the DB Pension Plans by 25 basis points would increase estimated pension cost for 2023 by $8 million for both CMS Energy and Consumers. Lowering the PBO discount rates by 25 basis points would decrease estimated pension cost for 2023 by $1 million for both CMS Energy and Consumers. Pension and OPEB plan assets are accounted for and disclosed at fair value. Fair value measurements incorporate assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability, including assumptions about risk. Development of these assumptions may require judgment. For additional details on postretirement benefits, including the fair value measurements for the assets of the DB Pension Plans and OPEB Plan, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10, Retirement Benefits. Unbilled Revenues: Consumers’ customers are billed monthly in cycles having billing dates that do not generally coincide with the end of a calendar month. This results in customers having received electricity or natural gas that they have not been billed for as of the month-end. Consumers estimates its unbilled revenues by applying an average billed rate to total unbilled deliveries for each customer class. Consumers records unbilled revenues as accounts receivable and accrued revenue on its consolidated balance sheet. For additional information on unbilled revenues, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 14, Revenue. New Accounting Standards There are no new accounting standards issued but not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on CMS Energy’s or Consumers’ consolidated financial statements. 85