********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This section highlights significant factors, events, and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky. The events and consequences discussed in these risk factors could, in circumstances we may not be able to accurately predict, recognize, or control, have a material adverse effect on our business, growth, reputation, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, liquidity, and stock price. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors, events, or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. In addition, the global economic and political climate may amplify many of these risks. Summary of Risk Factors Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our securities risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. • Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. • Changes and instability in the macroeconomic environment, consumer confidence and customer behavior may adversely affect our business. • Financial market instability and volatility could adversely affect our business. • We may experience increased delinquencies, credit losses, inaccurate estimates and inadequate reserves. • We may not be able to maintain adequate capital or liquidity levels, which could have a negative impact on our financial results and our ability to return capital to our stockholders. • Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock. • We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. • A cyber-attack or other security incident, including one that results in the theft, loss or misuse of information (including personal information), or the disabling of systems and access to information critical to business operations, may result in increased costs, reductions in revenue, reputational damage, legal exposure and business disruptions. • Our required compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to privacy, data protection and data security may increase our costs, reduce our revenue, increase our legal exposure and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • We face risks resulting from the extensive use of models and data. • Compliance with new and existing laws, regulations and regulatory expectations is costly and complex. • Our businesses are subject to the risk of increased litigation, government investigations and regulatory enforcement. • We face intense competition in all of our markets. • Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by merchants’ increasing focus on the fees charged by credit and debit card networks and by legislation and regulation impacting such fees. • If we are not able to invest successfully in and introduce digital and other technological developments across all our businesses, our financial performance may suffer. • We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships. • Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results and damage our brand. • If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. • Our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. • Fluctuations in market interest rates or volatility in the capital markets could adversely affect our income and expense, the value of assets and obligations, our regulatory capital, cost of capital or liquidity. • The transition away from London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may adversely affect our business. • Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate skilled employees. • We face risks from unpredictable catastrophic events. • Climate change manifesting as physical or transition risks could adversely affect our operations, businesses and customers. • We face risks from the use of or changes to assumptions or estimates in our financial statements. • The soundness of other financial institutions and other third parties could adversely affect us. General Economic and Market Risks Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although the global economy has begun to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic and many health and safety restrictions have been lifted and vaccine distribution has increased, certain adverse consequences of the pandemic, especially as a result of the emergence of the Omicron variant in late 2021, continue to impact the macroeconomic environment and may persist for some time. Such adverse consequences include labor shortages and disruptions of global supply chains. The growth in economic activity and demand for goods and services, alongside labor shortages and supply chain complications, has also contributed to rising inflationary pressures and could adversely affect our business. Should these ongoing effects of the pandemic continue for an extended period or worsen, our purchase volume, loan balances and the overall demand for our products and services may be significantly impacted, which could adversely affect our revenue and other results of operations. In addition, we could experience higher credit losses in our loan portfolios and increases in our allowance for credit losses beyond current levels. We could also experience impairments of other financial assets and other negative impacts on our financial position, including possible constraints on liquidity and capital, as well as higher costs of capital. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience adverse impacts to our business and results of operations, which could be material, as a result of the macroeconomic impact and any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. The COVID-19 pandemic caused us to modify our business practices and operations, including providing a range of forbearance options to our customers in certain circumstances. We may need to further modify our practices and operations as the pandemic remains dynamic and the emergence of variants resistant to existing vaccines remains uncertain. We also implemented work-from-home policies for a vast majority of our employees, and social distancing plans for our employees who are working from Capital One facilities. Nearly all of our Cafés and bank branches across our network are open with increased safety precautions. We will continue to monitor local conditions to ensure the safety of our associates and customers while providing critical banking services. These measures could impair our ability to perform critical functions and may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, these measures and other changes in consumer behavior as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic may require changes to retail distribution strategies and adversely impact our investments in our bank premises and equipment and other retail distribution assets, leading to increased costs and exposure to additional risks. We may take further actions as required by government authorities or that we otherwise determine are in the best interests of our customers, employees and business partners. Since the inception of the COVID-19 pandemic, federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities enacted regulations and protocols in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including governmental programs intended to provide economic relief to businesses and individuals. We participated in certain of these programs, including participating as an eligible lender in the Small Business Administration’s Paycheck Protection Program. Our participation in and execution of any such programs may cause operational, compliance, reputational and credit risks, which could result in litigation, governmental action or other forms of loss. The extent of these impacts, which may be substantial, depends, in part, on the degree of our participation in these programs. There remains significant uncertainty regarding the measures that authorities will enact in the future and the ultimate impact of the legislation, regulations and protocols that have been and will be enacted. Moreover, we expect that the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten many of the other known risks described herein. See “Part I—Item 1.—Business—Overview—Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic”. The extent to which the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our regulatory capital and liquidity ratios and our ability to take capital actions, will depend on future developments that remain uncertain, including, for example, the rate of distribution and administration of vaccines globally, the severity and duration of any resurgence of COVID-19 variants, future actions taken by governmental authorities, central banks and other third parties in response to the pandemic, and the effects on our customers, counterparties, employees and third-party service providers. Changes and instability in the macroeconomic environment, consumer confidence and customer behavior may adversely affect our business. We offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. A prolonged period of economic volatility, slow growth, or a significant deterioration in economic conditions, in the U.S., Canada or the U.K., could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as customers default on their loans, maintain lower deposit levels or, in the case of credit card accounts, carry lower balances and reduce credit card purchase activity. Some of the risks we face in connection with adverse changes and instability in the macroeconomic environment, including changes in consumer confidence levels and behavior, include the following: • Changes in payment patterns, increases in delinquencies and default rates, decreased consumer spending, inflation, lower demand for credit and shifts in consumer payment behavior towards avoiding late fees, finance charges and other fees; • Increases in our charge-off rate caused by bankruptcies and reduced ability to recover debt that we have previously charged-off; • Decreased reliability of the process and models we use to estimate our allowance for loan and lease losses, particularly if unexpected variations in key inputs and assumptions cause actual losses to diverge from the projections of our models and our estimates become increasingly subject to management’s judgment. See “ We face risks resulting from the extensive use of models and data. ” The U.K. and the European Union agreed to a free trade deal at the end of 2020 relating to the U.K.’s exit from the European Union. Although this deal provides greater near-term stability, there is still some degree of uncertainty as to the relationship between the U.K and the European Union, which may increase volatility in the regional and global financial markets. We continue to consider and monitor the potential impacts, and other factors that could also impact U.K. economic performance. Financial market instability and volatility could adversely affect our business. Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. In addition, fluctuations in interest rates, credit spreads and other market factors could negatively impact our results of operations. Both shorter-term and longer-term interest rates remain below long-term historical averages and the yield curve has been relatively flat compared to past periods. A flat yield curve combined with low interest rates generally leads to lower revenue and reduced margins because it can decrease the spread between asset yields and funding costs. Sustained periods of time with a flat yield curve coupled with low interest rates, or an inversion of the yield curve, could have a material adverse effect on our net interest margin and earnings. Credit Risk We may experience increased delinquencies, credit losses, inaccurate estimates and inadequate reserves. Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. A customer’s ability and willingness to repay us can be adversely affected by decreases in the income of the borrower or increases in their payment obligations to other lenders, whether as a result of higher debt levels or rising interest rates, by rising levels of inflation, or by restricted availability of credit generally. We may fail to quickly identify and reduce our exposure to customers that are likely to default on their payment obligations, whether by closing credit lines or restricting authorizations. Our ability to manage credit risk also is affected by legal or regulatory changes (such as restrictions on collections, bankruptcy laws, minimum payment regulations and re-age guidance), competitors’ actions and consumer behavior, and depends on the effectiveness of our collections staff, techniques and models. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (such as higher delinquencies, higher rates of nonperforming loans, higher bankruptcy rates, lower collateral values, elevated unemployment rates or changing market terms) may require us to increase our allowance for credit losses, which would decrease our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for higher losses. In particular, we face the following risks in this area: • Missed Payments: Our customers may miss payments. Loan charge-offs (including from bankruptcies) are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition for our customers. Historically, customers are more likely to miss payments during an economic downturn or prolonged periods of slow economic growth. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior may change (for example, an increase in the unwillingness or inability of customers to repay debt, which may be heightened by increasing interest rates or levels of consumer debt), causing a long-term rise in delinquencies and charge-offs. • Incorrect Estimates of Expected Losses: The credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We allow for and reserve against credit risks based on our assessment of expected credit losses in our loan portfolios. This process, which is critical to our financial condition and results of operations, requires complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions. We may underestimate our expected losses and fail to hold an allowance for credit losses sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimations of expected credit losses and an inadequate allowance for credit losses. • Inaccurate Underwriting: Our ability to accurately assess the creditworthiness of our customers may diminish, which could result in an increase in our credit losses and a deterioration of our returns. See “ Our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk .” • Business Mix: We engage in a diverse mix of businesses with a broad range of potential credit exposure. Because we originate a relatively greater proportion of consumer loans in our loan portfolio compared to other large bank peers and originate both prime and subprime credit card accounts and auto loans, we may experience higher delinquencies and a greater number of accounts charging off compared to other large bank peers, which could result in increased credit losses, operating costs and regulatory scrutiny. Additionally, a change in this business mix over time to include proportionally more consumer loans or subprime credit card accounts or auto loans could adversely affect the credit quality of our portfolio. • Increasing Charge-off Recognition/Allowance for Credit Losses: We account for the allowance for credit losses according to accounting and regulatory guidelines and rules, including Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) standards and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (“FFIEC”) Account Management Guidance. Effective as of January 1, 2020, we adopted the CECL standard which is based on expected lifetime losses rather than incurred losses. Adoption of the CECL standard has resulted and may continue to result in an increase to our reserves for credit losses on financial instruments with a resulting adverse impact on our financial condition. The continued impact of CECL on our results will depend on the characteristics of our financial instruments, economic conditions, and our economic and loss forecasts. The application of the CECL standard requires us to increase reserves faster and to a higher level in an economic downturn, resulting in greater impact to our results and our capital ratios than we would have experienced in similar circumstances prior to the adoption of CECL. In addition, because credit cards represent a significant portion of our product mix, we could be disproportionately affected by use of the CECL standard, as compared to our large bank peers with a different product mix. • Insufficient Asset Values: The collateral we have on secured loans could be insufficient to compensate us for credit losses. When customers default on their secured loans, we attempt to recover collateral where permissible and appropriate. However, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan, and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Decreases in real estate and other asset values adversely affect the collateral value for our commercial lending activities, while the auto business is similarly exposed to collateral risks arising from the auction markets that determine used car prices. Borrowers may be less likely to continue making payments on loans if the value of the property used as collateral for the loan is less than what the borrower owes, even if the borrower is still financially able to make the payments. In that circumstance, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans upon a default. In our auto business, business and economic conditions that negatively affect household incomes, housing prices and consumer behavior, as well as technological advances that make older cars obsolete faster, could decrease (i) the demand for new and used vehicles and (ii) the value of the collateral underlying our portfolio of auto loans, which could cause the number of consumers who become delinquent or default on their loans to increase. • Geographic and Industry Concentration: Although our consumer lending is geographically diversified, approximately 45% of our commercial real estate loan portfolio is concentrated in the Northeast region. The regional economic conditions in the Northeast affect the demand for our commercial products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay their commercial real estate loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. An economic downturn or prolonged period of slow economic growth in, or a catastrophic event that disproportionately affects, including as a result of climate change, the Northeast region could have a material adverse effect on the performance of our commercial real estate loan portfolio and our results of operations. In addition, our Commercial Banking strategy includes an industry-specific focus. If any of the industries that we focus on experience changes, we may experience increased credit losses and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Capital and Liquidity Risk We may not be able to maintain adequate capital or liquidity levels, which could have a negative impact on our financial results and our ability to return capital to our stockholders. Financial institutions are subject to extensive and complex capital and liquidity requirements, which are subject to change. These requirements affect our ability to lend, grow deposit balances, make acquisitions and distribute capital. Failure to maintain adequate capital or liquidity levels, whether due to adverse developments in our business or the economy or to changes in the applicable requirements, could subject us to a variety of remedies available to our regulators. These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase shares and the issuance of a capital directive to increase capital. Such limitations or capital directive could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We consider various factors in the management of capital, including the impact of both internal and supervisory stress scenarios on our capital levels as determined by both our internal modeling and the Federal Reserve’s modeling of our capital position in supervisory stress tests. There can be significant differences between our modeling and the Federal Reserve’s projections for a given supervisory stress scenario and between the capital needs suggested by our internal stress scenarios relative to the supervisory scenarios. Therefore, although our estimated capital levels under stress disclosed as part of the stress testing processes may suggest that we have a particular capacity to return capital to stockholders and remain well capitalized under stress, the Federal Reserve’s modeling, our internal modeling of another scenario and/or other factors related to our capital management process may reflect a lower capacity to return capital to stockholders than that indicated by the projections released in the stress testing processes. This in turn, could lead to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and engage in share repurchases. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. We also consider various factors in the management of liquidity, including maintaining sufficient liquid assets to meet the requirements of several internal and regulatory stress tests. There can be significant differences in estimated liquidity needs between internal and regulatory stress testing, and liquidity resources required to meet regulatory requirements, such as applicable LCR and NSFR requirements, may exceed what would otherwise be required to satisfy internal liquidity metrics and stress testing. Regulatory liquidity stress testing and regulatory liquidity requirements may, therefore, require us to take actions to increase our liquid assets or alter our activities or funding sources, which could negatively affect our financial results or our ability to return capital to our stockholders. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. In response to economic uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve required certain large BHCs, including us, to suspend share repurchases and cap common stock dividends and subsequently extended the restrictions into the first half of 2021 with certain modifications to permit resumptions of share repurchases. Although these temporary restrictions on our capital actions ended on June 30, 2021, it is possible that the Federal Reserve could impose similar restrictions in the future. Further changes to applicable capital and liquidity requirements could result in unexpected or new limitations on our ability to pay dividends and engage in share repurchases. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock. We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Banks and our broker-dealer subsidiaries. Dividends to us from these direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major source of funds for us to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock, repurchase common stock, make payments on corporate debt securities and meet other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to us through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also subject to laws and regulations, including net capital requirements, that may limit their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. If our subsidiaries’ earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, our liquidity may be affected and we may not be able to make dividend payments to our common or preferred stockholders, repurchase our common stock, make payments on outstanding corporate debt securities or meet other obligations, each and any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, our financial position or the perception of our financial health. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information regarding dividend limitations applicable to us and the Banks. Operational Risk We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. Our ability to retain and attract customers depends on our ability to develop, operate, and adapt our technology and organizational infrastructure in a rapidly changing environment. In addition, we must accurately process, record and monitor an increasingly large number of complex transactions. Digital technology, data and software development are deeply embedded into our business model and how we work. Similar to other large corporations, we are exposed to operational risk that can manifest itself in many ways, such as errors in execution, inadequate processes, inaccurate models, faulty or disabled technological infrastructure, malicious disruption and fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, whether through attacks on Capital One directly or on our customers. In addition, we are heavily dependent on the security, capability and continuous availability of the technology systems that we use to manage our internal financial and other systems, monitor risk and compliance with regulatory requirements, provide services to our customers, develop and offer new products and communicate with stakeholders. We also face risk of adverse customer impacts and business disruption arising from the execution of strategic initiatives we may pursue across our operations. If we do not maintain the necessary operational, technological and organizational infrastructure to operate our business, including to maintain the resiliency and security of that infrastructure, our business and reputation could be materially adversely affected. We also are subject to disruptions to our systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include computer viruses, electrical or telecommunications outages, design flaws in foundational components or platforms, availability and quality of vulnerability patches from key vendors, cyber-attacks and other security incidents (including Distributed Denial of Service (“DDOS”) and other attacks on our infrastructure as discussed below), natural disasters, other damage to property or physical assets, or events arising from local or larger scale politics, including terrorist acts. Any failure to maintain our infrastructure or disruption of our systems and applications could diminish our ability to operate our businesses, service customer accounts and protect customers’ information, or result in potential liability to customers, reputational damage, regulatory intervention and customers’ loss of confidence in our businesses, any of which could result in a material adverse effect. We also rely on the business infrastructure and systems of third parties with which we do business and to whom we outsource the operation, maintenance and development of our information technology and communications systems. We have migrated substantially all aspects of our core information technology systems and customer-facing applications to third-party cloud infrastructure platforms, principally AWS. If we fail to administer these new environments in a well-managed, secure and effective manner, or if such platforms become unavailable or do not meet their service level agreements for any reason, we may experience unplanned service disruption or unforeseen costs which could result in material harm to our business and results of operations. We must successfully develop and maintain information, financial reporting, disclosure, privacy, data-protection, data security and other controls adapted to our reliance on outside platforms and providers. In addition, AWS, or other service providers, could experience system breakdowns or failures, outages, downtime, cyber-attacks and other security incidents, adverse changes to financial condition, bankruptcy, or other adverse conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. Thus, the substantial amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to AWS or to other third parties may increase our risk exposure. Any disruptions, failures or inaccuracies of our operational processes, technology systems and models, including those associated with improvements or modifications to such technology systems and models, could cause us to be unable to market and manage our products and services, manage our risk, meet our regulatory obligations or report our financial results in a timely and accurate manner, all of which could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, our ongoing investments in infrastructure, which are necessary to maintain a competitive business, integrate acquisitions and establish scalable operations, may increase our expenses. As our business develops, changes or expands, additional expenses can arise as a result of a reevaluation of business strategies, management of outsourced services, asset purchases or other acquisitions, structural reorganization, compliance with new laws or regulations, the integration of newly acquired businesses, or the prevention or occurrence of cyber-attacks and other security incidents. If we are unable to successfully manage our expenses, our financial results will be negatively affected. Changes to our business, including those resulting from our strategic objectives, also requires robust governance to ensure that our objectives are executed as intended without adversely impacting our customers, associates, operations or financial performance. Ineffective change management oversight and governance over the execution of our strategic objectives could expose us to operational, strategic and reputational risk and could negatively impact customers or our financial performance. A cyber-attack or other security incident, including one that results in the theft, loss or misuse of information (including personal information), or the disabling of systems and access to information critical to business operations, may result in increased costs, reductions in revenue, reputational damage, legal exposure and business disruptions. Our ability to provide our products and services, many of which are web-based, and communicate with our customers, depends upon the management and safeguarding of information systems and infrastructure, networks, software, data engineering, technology, methodologies and business secrets, including those of our service providers. Our products and services involve the collection, authentication, management, usage, storage, transmission and eventual destruction of sensitive and confidential information, including personal information, regarding our customers and their accounts, our employees, our partners and other third parties with which we do business. We also have arrangements in place with third parties through which we share and receive information about their customers who are or may become our customers. Technologies, systems, networks, and other devices of Capital One, as well as those of our employees, service providers, partners and other third parties with whom we interact, have been and may continue to be the subject of cyber-attacks and other security incidents, including DDOS attacks, computer viruses, hacking, malware, ransomware, credential stuffing, or phishing or other forms of social engineering. Such cyber-attacks and other security incidents are designed to lead to various harmful outcomes, such as unauthorized transactions in Capital One accounts, unauthorized or unintended access to or release, gathering, monitoring, disclosure, loss, destruction, corruption, disablement, encryption, misuse, modification or other processing of confidential or sensitive information (including personal information), intellectual property, software, methodologies or business secrets, disruption, sabotage or degradation of service, systems or networks, or other damage. These threats may derive from, among other things, error, fraud or malice on the part of our employees, insiders, or third parties or may result from accidental technological failure. Any of these parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, service providers, customers, partners or other third-party users of our systems or networks to disclose confidential or sensitive information (including personal information) in order to gain access to our systems, networks or data or that of our customers, partners, or third parties with whom we interact, or to unlawfully obtain monetary benefit through misdirected or otherwise improper payment. For example, any party that obtains our confidential or sensitive information (including personal information) through a cyber-attack or other security incident may use this information for ransom, to be paid by us or a third party, as part of a fraudulent activity that is part of a broader criminal activity, or for other illicit purposes. For example, on July 29, 2019, we announced that on March 22 and 23, 2019 an outside individual gained unauthorized access to our systems (the “Cybersecurity Incident”). This individual obtained certain types of personal information relating to people who had applied for our credit card products and to our credit card customers. While the Cybersecurity Incident has been remediated, it has resulted in fines, litigation, government investigations and other regulatory enforcement inquiries, as well as consent orders with certain regulatory agencies. Cyber and information security risks for large financial institutions like us continue to increase due to the proliferation of new technologies, the industry-wide shift to reliance upon the internet to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of malicious actors, organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists, activists, formal and informal instrumentalities of foreign governments and other external parties. In addition, our customers access our products and services using personal devices that are necessarily external to our security control systems. There has also been a significant proliferation of consumer information available on the internet resulting from breaches of third-party entities, including personal information, log-in credentials and authentication data. While we were not directly involved in these third-party breach events, the stolen information can create a vulnerability for our customers if their Capital One log-in credentials are the same as or similar to the credentials that have been compromised on other sites. This vulnerability could include the risk of unauthorized account access, data loss and fraud. The use of artificial intelligence, “bots” or other automation software can increase the velocity and efficacy of these types of attacks. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic also increases the risk that we may experience cyber incidents as a result of our employees, service providers, partners and other third parties with which we interact working remotely on systems, networks and environments over which we have less control. The methods and techniques employed by malicious actors change frequently, are increasingly sophisticated and often are not fully recognized or understood until after they have occurred, and some techniques could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected. For example, although we immediately fixed the configuration vulnerability that was exploited in the Cybersecurity Incident once we discovered the unauthorized access, a period of time elapsed between the occurrence of the unauthorized access and the time when we discovered it. In other circumstances, we and our service providers and other third parties with which we interact may be unable to anticipate or identify certain attack methods in order to implement effective preventative measures or mitigate or remediate the damages caused in a timely manner. We may also be unable to hire and develop talent capable of detecting, mitigating or remediating these risks. Although we seek to maintain a robust suite of authentication and layered information security controls, any one or combination of these controls could fail to detect, mitigate or remediate these risks in a timely manner. We will likely face an increasing number of attempted cyber-attacks as we expand our mobile and other internet-based products and services, as well as our usage of mobile and cloud technologies and as we provide more of these services to a greater number of retail clients. A disruption or breach, including as a result of a cyber-attack such as the Cybersecurity Incident, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities at Capital One or at our service providers, could result in significant legal and financial exposure, regulatory intervention, litigation, remediation costs, card reissuance, supervisory liability, damage to our reputation or loss of confidence in the security of our systems, products and services that could adversely affect our business. There can be no assurance that unauthorized access or cyber incidents similar to the Cybersecurity Incident will not occur or that we will not suffer material losses in the future. If future attacks are successful or if customers are unable to access their accounts online for other reasons, it could adversely impact our ability to service customer accounts or loans, complete financial transactions for our customers or otherwise operate any of our businesses or services. In addition, a breach or attack affecting one of our service providers or other third parties with which we interact could harm our business even if we do not control the service that is attacked. Further, our ability to monitor our service providers’ cybersecurity practices is limited. Although we generally have agreements relating to cybersecurity and data privacy in place with our service providers, we cannot guarantee that such agreements will prevent a cyber incident impacting our systems or information or enable us to obtain adequate or any reimbursement from our service providers in the event we should suffer any such incidents. However, due to applicable laws and regulations or contractual obligations, we may be held responsible for cyber incidents attributed to our service providers as they relate to the information we share with them. In addition, the increasing prevalence and the evolution of cyber-attacks and other efforts to breach or disrupt our systems or networks or those of our customers, service providers, partners or other third parties with which we interact has led, and will likely continue to lead, to increased costs to us with respect to preventing, mitigating and remediating these risks, as well as any related attempted fraud. In order to address ongoing and future risks, we must expend significant resources to support protective security measures, investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities of our information systems and infrastructure and invest in new technology designed to mitigate security risks. Further, high profile cyber incidents at Capital One or other large financial institutions could lead to a general loss of customer confidence in financial institutions that could negatively affect us, including harming the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures or the financial system in general, which could result in reduced use of our financial products. We have insurance against some cyber risks and attacks; nonetheless, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event (including if our insurer denies coverage as to any particular claim in the future), and such insurance may increase in cost or cease to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in the future. Our required compliance with applicable laws and regulations related to privacy, data protection and data security may increase our costs, reduce our revenue, increase our legal exposure and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the United States at the federal, state and local level regarding privacy, data protection and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, security and other processing of personal information. For example, at the federal level, we are subject to the GLBA, among other laws and regulations. In addition, in November 2021, the Federal Reserve, OCC, and FDIC issued a final rule that, among other things, requires all banking organizations in the United States to notify their primary federal regulators of certain material computer-security incidents as soon as possible and no later than 36 hours after determining that the incident has occurred. At the state level, the CCPA went into effect on January 1, 2020 and covers certain companies that process personal information of California residents. The CCPA was recently amended by the CPRA, which will become effective in most material respects on January 1, 2023. Numerous other states have also enacted or are in the process of enacting state-level privacy, data protection and/or data security laws and regulations. We also are, or may become, subject to continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection and data security. For example, in Canada we are subject to the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (“PIPEDA”). In addition, the EU GDPR applies EU data protection law to all companies processing data of EU residents, regardless of the company’s location. We also are subject to the U.K. GDPR (which is how GDPR has been implemented into U.K. law). These laws and regulations, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions, impose strict requirements regarding the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, security and other processing of personal information, which may have adverse consequences, including significant compliance costs and severe monetary penalties for non-compliance. Significant uncertainty exists as privacy, data protection, and data security laws may be interpreted and applied differently from country to country and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Further, we make public statements about our use, collection, disclosure and other processing of personal information through our privacy policies, information provided on our website and press statements. Although we endeavor to comply with our public statements and documentation, we may at times fail to do so or be alleged to have failed to do so. The publication of our privacy policies and other statements that provide promises and assurances about privacy, data protection and data security can subject us to potential government or legal action if they are found to be deceptive, unfair or misrepresentative of our actual practices. Our efforts to comply with PIPEDA, GLBA, GDPR, U.K. GDPR, CCPA, CPRA and other privacy, data protection and data security laws and regulations, as well as our posted privacy policies, and related contractual obligations to third parties, entail substantial expenses, may divert resources from other initiatives and projects, and could limit the services we are able to offer. Furthermore, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy, data protection and data security violations continue to increase. The enactment of more restrictive laws or regulations, or future enforcement actions or investigations, could impact us through increased costs or restrictions on our business, and any noncompliance or perceived noncompliance could result in monetary or other penalties, harm to our reputation and significant legal liability. We face risks resulting from the extensive use of models and data. We rely on quantitative models, our ability to manage and aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner, assess and manage our various risk exposures, estimate certain financial values and manage compliance with regulatory capital requirements. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading loans and extending credit, measuring interest rate and other market risks, predicting deposit levels or loan losses, assessing capital adequacy and calculating managerial and regulatory capital levels, estimating the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items, and other operational functions. Our risk reporting and management, including business decisions based on information incorporating models, depend on the effectiveness of our models and our policies, programs, processes and practices governing how data is acquired, validated, stored, protected, processed and analyzed. Any issues with the quality or effectiveness of our data aggregation and validation procedures, as well as the quality and integrity of data inputs, formulas or algorithms, could result in inaccurate forecasts, ineffective risk management practices or inaccurate risk reporting. In addition, models based on historical data sets might not be accurate predictors of future outcomes and their ability to appropriately predict future outcomes may degrade over time. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices, many of our data management, aggregation and implementation processes are manual and subject to human error or system failure. Failure to manage data effectively and to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner may limit our ability to manage current and emerging risk, to produce accurate financial, regulatory and operational reporting as well as to manage changing business needs. If our risk management framework is ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses which could materially adversely affect our results of operation or financial condition. Also, any information we provide to the public or to our regulators based on poorly designed or implemented models could be inaccurate or misleading. Some of the decisions that our regulators make, including those related to capital distribution to our stockholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the quality of the models used to generate the relevant information is insufficient. Legal and Regulatory Risk Compliance with new and existing laws, regulations and regulatory expectations is costly and complex. A wide array of laws and regulations, including banking and consumer lending laws and regulations, apply to almost every aspect of our business. We and our subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators, and the manner in which our regulators interpret applicable laws and regulations may affect how we comply with them. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure was inadvertent or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines, criminal sanctions and other penalties, and/or damage to our reputation with regulators, our customers or the public. Hiring, training and retaining qualified compliance and legal personnel, and establishing and maintaining risk management and compliance-related systems, infrastructure and processes, is difficult and may lead to increased expenses. These efforts and the associated costs could limit our ability to invest in other business opportunities. Applicable rules and regulations may affect us disproportionately compared to our competitors or in an unforeseen manner. For example, we have a large number of customer accounts in our credit card and auto lending businesses and we have made the strategic choice to originate and service subprime credit card and auto loans, which typically have higher delinquencies and charge-offs than prime customer accounts. As a result, we have significant involvement with credit bureau reporting and the collection and recovery of delinquent and charged-off debt, primarily through customer communications, the filing of litigation against customers in default, the periodic sale of charged-off debt and vehicle repossession. These activities are subject to enhanced legal and regulatory scrutiny from regulators, courts and legislators. Any future changes to or legal liabilities resulting from our business practices in these areas, including our debt collection practices, whether mandated by regulators, courts, legislators or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. The legislative and regulatory environment is beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably, and may negatively influence our revenue, costs, earnings, growth, liquidity and capital levels. For example, there may be future rulemaking in emerging regulatory areas such as climate-related risks and new technologies, including distributed ledger technology and cryptocurrencies. In addition, some rules and regulations may be subject to litigation or other challenges that delay or modify their implementation and impact on us. Adoption of new technologies, such as distributed ledger technologies, tokenization, cloud computing, artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies, can present unforeseen challenges in applying and relying on existing compliance systems. Certain laws and regulations, and any interpretations and applications with respect thereto, are generally intended to protect consumers, borrowers, depositors, the DIF, the U.S. banking and financial system, and financial markets as a whole, but not stockholders. Our success depends on our ability to maintain compliance with both existing and new laws and regulations. For a description of the material laws and regulations to which we are subject, see “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” Our businesses are subject to the risk of increased litigation, government investigations and regulatory enforcement. Our businesses are subject to increased litigation, government investigations and other regulatory enforcement risks as a result of a number of factors and from various sources, including the highly regulated nature of the financial services industry, the focus of state and federal prosecutors on banks and the financial services industry and the structure of the credit card industry. Given the inherent uncertainties involved in litigation, government investigations and regulatory enforcement decisions, and the very large or indeterminate damages sought in some matters asserted against us, there can be significant uncertainty as to the ultimate liability we may incur from these kinds of matters. The finding, or even the assertion, of substantial legal liability against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and could cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. The Cybersecurity Incident has resulted in litigation, government investigations and other regulatory enforcement inquiries. In addition, financial institutions, such as ourselves, face significant regulatory scrutiny, which can lead to public enforcement actions or nonpublic supervisory actions. We and our subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by, among other regulatory bodies, the Federal Banking Agencies, SEC, CFTC and CFPB. We have been subject to enforcement actions by many of these and other regulators and may continue to be involved in such actions, including governmental inquiries, investigations and enforcement proceedings, including by the OCC, Department of Justice, Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (“FinCEN”) and state Attorneys General. Over the last several years, federal and state regulators have focused on compliance with AML and sanctions laws, privacy, data protection and data security, use of service providers, fair lending and other consumer protection issues. In August 2020, we entered into consent orders with the Federal Reserve and the OCC resulting from regulatory reviews of the  Cybersecurity Incident and relating to ongoing enhancements of our cybersecurity and operational risk management processes, and we paid a civil monetary penalty as part of the OCC agreement. In January 2021, we also paid a civil monetary penalty assessed by FinCEN against CONA in connection with our AML program. Regulatory scrutiny is expected to continue in these areas, including as a result of implementation of the AML Act of 2020. We expect that regulators and governmental enforcement bodies will continue taking formal enforcement actions against financial institutions in addition to addressing supervisory concerns through nonpublic supervisory and enforcement actions or findings, which could involve restrictions on our activities, or our ability to make acquisitions or otherwise expand our business, among other limitations that could adversely affect our business. In addition, a violation of law or regulation by another financial institution is likely to give rise to an investigation by regulators and other governmental agencies of the same or similar practices by us. Furthermore, a single event may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and proceedings. These and other initiatives from governmental authorities and officials may subject us to further judgments, settlements, fines or penalties, or cause us to restructure our operations and activities or to cease offering certain products or services, all of which could harm our reputation or lead to higher operational costs. Litigation, government investigations and other regulatory actions could generally subject us to significant fines, increased expenses, restrictions on our activities and damage to our reputation and our brand, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information regarding legal and regulatory proceedings to which we are subject, see “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.” Other Business Risks We face intense competition in all of our markets. We operate in a highly competitive environment across all of our lines of business, whether in making loans, attracting deposits or in the global payments industry, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify with respect to most of our products particularly in our credit card and consumer banking business. We compete on the basis of the rates we pay on deposits and the rates and other terms we charge on the loans we originate or purchase, as well as the quality and range of our customer service, products, innovation and experience. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in technology, product delivery systems and regulation, as well as the emergence of new or significantly larger financial services providers, all of which may affect our customers’ expectations and demands. In addition to offering competitive products and services, we invest in and conduct marketing campaigns to attract and inform customers. Some of our competitors, including new and emerging competitors in the digital and mobile payments space and other financial technology providers, are not subject to the same regulatory requirements or legislative scrutiny to which we are subject, which also could place us at a competitive disadvantage, in particular in the development of new technology platforms or the ability to rapidly innovate. We compete with many forms of payments offered by both bank and non-bank providers, including a variety of new and evolving alternative payment mechanisms, systems and products, such as aggregators and web-based and wireless payment platforms or technologies, digital or cryptocurrencies, prepaid systems and payment services targeting users of social networks, communications platforms and online gaming. If we are unable to continue to keep pace with innovation, do not effectively market our products and services or are prohibited from or unwilling to enter emerging areas of competition, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer base, the ability to reach more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, broad-based local distribution capabilities, lower-cost funding and larger existing branch networks. Many of our competitors are also focusing on cross-selling their products and developing new products or technologies, which could affect our ability to maintain or grow existing customer relationships or require us to offer lower interest rates or fees on our lending products or higher interest rates on deposits. Competition for loans could result in origination of fewer loans, earning less on our loans or an increase in loans that perform below expectations. We operate as an online direct bank in the United States. While direct banking provides a significant opportunity to attract new customers that value greater and more flexible access to banking services at reduced costs, we face strong and increasing competition in the direct banking market. Aggressive pricing throughout the industry may adversely affect the retention of existing balances and the cost-efficient acquisition of new deposit funds and may affect our growth and profitability. Customers could also close their online accounts or reduce balances or deposits in favor of products and services offered by competitors for other reasons. These shifts, which could be rapid, could result from general dissatisfaction with our products or services, including concerns over pricing, online security or our reputation. The potential consequences of this competitive environment are exacerbated by the flexibility of direct banking and the financial and technological sophistication of our online customer base. In our credit card business, competition for rewards customers may result in higher rewards expenses, or we may fail to attract new customers or retain existing rewards customers due to increasing competition for these consumers. As of December 31, 2021, we have a number of large partnerships in our credit card loan portfolio. The market for key business partners, especially in the credit card business, is very competitive, and we may not be able to grow or maintain these partner relationships. Additionally, partners themselves may face changes in their business, including market factors and ownership changes, that could impact the partnership. We face the risk that we could lose partner relationships, even after we have invested significant resources into acquiring and developing the relationships. The loss of any of our key business partners could have a negative impact on our results of operations, including lower returns, excess operating expense and excess funding capacity. We depend on our partners to effectively promote our co-brand and private label products and integrate the use of our credit cards into their retail operations. The failure by our partners to effectively promote and support our products as well as changes they may make in their business models could adversely affect card usage and our ability to achieve the growth and profitability objectives of our partnerships. In addition, if our partners do not adhere to the terms of our program agreements and standards, or otherwise diminish the value of our brand, we may suffer reputational damage and customers may be less likely to use our products. Some of our competitors have developed, or may develop, substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, may offer richer value propositions or a wider range of programs and services than we offer, or may use more effective advertising, marketing or cross-selling strategies to acquire and retain more customers, capture a greater share of spending and borrowings, attain and develop more attractive co-brand card programs and maintain greater merchant acceptance than we have. We may not be able to compete effectively against these threats or respond or adapt to changes in consumer spending habits as effectively as our competitors. In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts or may lose account balances to competing firms, or we may find it more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore our earnings. Similarly, unexpected customer attrition from our deposit products, in addition to an increase in rates or services that we may offer to retain deposits, may increase our expenses and therefore reduce our earnings. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by merchants’ increasing focus on the fees charged by credit and debit card networks and by legislation and regulation impacting such fees. Interchange fees are generally one of the largest components of the costs that merchants pay in connection with the acceptance of credit and debit cards and are a meaningful source of revenue for our credit and debit card businesses. Interchange fees are the subject of significant and intense global legal, legislative and regulatory focus, and the resulting decisions, legislation and regulation may have a material adverse impact on our overall business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory bodies in a number of countries are seeking to reduce interchange fees through legislation, competition-related regulatory proceedings, voluntary agreements, central bank regulation and/or litigation. For credit transactions, interchange reimbursement rates in the United States are set by credit card networks such as MasterCard and Visa. For debit transactions, Federal Reserve rules place limits on the interchange fees we may charge. For more information on these rules, including the Federal Reserve’s proposed amendments, please see “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” In some jurisdictions, such as Canada and certain countries in Europe, including the U.K., interchange fees and related practices are subject to regulatory activity,  including in some cases, imposing caps on permissible interchange fees. Our international card businesses have been impacted by these restrictions. For example, in the U.K., interchange fees are capped for both credit and debit card transactions. In addition, in Canada, Visa and Mastercard payment networks have, since 2014, entered into voluntary agreements with the Department of Finance Canada to maintain an agreed upon average interchange rate. Lowering interchange fees remains an area of domestic and international governmental focus. Legislators and regulators around the world are aware of each other’s approaches to the regulation of the payments industry. Consequently, a development in one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in another, such as our primary market, the United States. In addition to this regulatory activity, merchants are also seeking avenues to reduce interchange fees. During the past few years, merchants and their trade groups have filed numerous lawsuits against Visa, MasterCard, American Express and their card-issuing banks, claiming that their practices toward merchants, including interchange and similar fees, violate federal antitrust laws. In 2005, a number of entities filed antitrust lawsuits against MasterCard and Visa and several member banks, including our subsidiaries and us, alleging among other things, that the defendants conspired to fix the level of interchange fees. In December 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted final approval of the proposed class settlement. The settlement provided, among other things, that merchants would be entitled to join together to negotiate lower interchange fees. The settlement was appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, which rejected the settlement in June 2016; a revised settlement was reached in the second half of 2018, and the trial court issued its final approval of the settlement in December 2019. See “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others” for further details. Some major retailers may have sufficient bargaining power to independently negotiate lower interchange fees with MasterCard and Visa, which could, in turn, result in lower interchange fees for us when our cardholders undertake purchase transactions with these retailers. In 2016, some of the largest merchants individually negotiated lower interchange rates with MasterCard and/or Visa. These and other merchants also continue to lobby aggressively for caps and restrictions on interchange fees and their efforts may be successful or they may in the future bring legal proceedings against us or other credit card and debit card issuers and networks. Beyond pursuing litigation, legislation and regulation, merchants may also promote forms of payment with lower fees, such as ACH-based payments, or seek to impose surcharges at the point of sale for use of credit or debit cards. New payment systems, particularly mobile-based payment technologies, could also gain widespread adoption and lead to issuer transaction fees or the displacement of credit card accounts as a payment method. The heightened focus by merchants and legislative and regulatory bodies on the fees charged by credit and debit card networks, and the ability of certain merchants to successfully negotiate discounts to interchange fees with MasterCard and Visa or develop alternative payment systems, could result in a reduction of interchange fees. Any resulting loss in income to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to invest successfully in and introduce digital and other technological developments across all our businesses, our financial performance may suffer. Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes and our ability to meet our customers’ needs and expectations is key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings. We expect digital technologies to have a significant impact on banking over time. Consumers expect robust digital experiences from their financial services providers. The ability for customers to access their accounts and conduct financial transactions using digital technology, including mobile applications, is an important aspect of the financial services industry and financial institutions are rapidly introducing new digital and other technology-driven products and services that aim to offer a better customer experience and to reduce costs. We continue to invest in digital technology designed to attract new customers, facilitate the ability of existing customers to conduct financial transactions and enhance the customer experience related to our products and services. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using digital technology to provide products and services that meet their expectations. The development and launch of new digital products and services depends in large part on our capacity to invest in and build the technology platforms that can enable them, in a cost effective and timely manner. See “ We face intense competition in all of our markets ” and “ We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure. ” Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, which may allow those competitors to invest more money into their technology infrastructure and digital innovation than we do. In addition, we face intense competition from smaller companies which experience lower cost structures and different regulatory requirements and scrutiny than we do, and which may allow them to innovate more rapidly than we can. See “ We face intense competition in all of our markets. ” Further, our success depends on our ability to attract and retain strong digital and technology leaders, engineers and other specialized personnel. The competition is intense and the compensation costs continue to increase for such talent. If we are unable to attract and retain digital and technology talent, our ability to offer digital products and services and build the necessary technology infrastructure could be negatively affected, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. A failure to maintain or enhance our competitive position with respect to digital products and services, whether because we fail to anticipate customer expectations or because our technological developments fail to perform as desired or are not implemented in a timely or successful manner, could negatively impact our business and financial results. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships. We have engaged in merger and acquisition activity and entered into strategic partnerships over the past several years. We continue to evaluate and anticipate engaging in, among other merger and acquisition activity, additional strategic partnerships and selected acquisitions of financial institutions and other businesses or assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios. We may not be able to identify and secure future acquisition targets on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us, or successfully complete within the anticipated time frame and achieve the anticipated benefits of proposed mergers, acquisitions and strategic partnerships, which could impair our growth. Any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership we undertake entails certain risks, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. If we experience greater than anticipated costs to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations, or are not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership, including cost savings and other synergies, our business could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that the ongoing integration processes could result in the loss of key employees, errors or delays in systems implementation, exposure to cybersecurity risks associated with acquired businesses, exposure to additional regulatory oversight, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with partners, clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership. Integration efforts also may divert management attention and resources. These integration matters may have an adverse effect on us during any transition period. In addition, we may face the following risks in connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership: • New Businesses and Geographic or Other Markets: Our merger, acquisition or strategic partnership activity may involve our entry into new businesses, or new geographic areas or other markets which present risks resulting from our relative inexperience in these new businesses or markets. These new businesses or markets may change the overall character of our consolidated portfolio of businesses and alter our exposure to economic and other external factors. We face the risk that we will not be successful in these new businesses or in these new markets. • Identification and Assessment of Merger and Acquisition Targets and Deployment of Acquired Assets: We may not be able to identify, acquire or partner with suitable targets. Further, our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership will depend on our ability to assess the asset quality and value of the particular assets or institutions we partner with, merge with or acquire. We may be unable to profitably deploy any assets we acquire. • Accuracy of Assumptions: In connection with any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership, we may make certain assumptions relating to the proposed merger, acquisition or strategic partnership that may be, or may prove to be, inaccurate, including as a result of the failure to realize the expected benefits of any merger, acquisition or strategic partnership. The inaccuracy of any assumptions we may make could result in unanticipated consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. • Target-specific Risk: Assets and companies that we acquire, or companies that we enter into strategic partnerships with, will have their own risks that are specific to a particular asset or company. These risks include, but are not limited to, particular or specific regulatory, accounting, operational, reputational and industry risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For example, we may face challenges associated with integrating other companies due to differences in corporate culture, compliance systems or standards of conduct. Indemnification rights, if any, may be insufficient to compensate us for any losses or damages resulting from such risks. In addition to regulatory approvals discussed below, certain of our merger, acquisition or partnership activity may require third-party consents in order for us to fully realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction. • Conditions to Regulatory Approval: We may be required to obtain regulatory approvals to consummate certain acquisitions. We cannot be certain whether, when or on what terms and conditions, such approvals may be granted. Consequently, we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the acquisition despite investing resources in pursuing it. Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results and damage our brand. Our ability to attract and retain customers is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of our products, services, trustworthiness, business practices, workplace culture, compliance practices or our financial health. In addition, our brand is very important to us. Maintaining and enhancing our brand depends largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality products and services. Adverse perceptions regarding our reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. In particular, negative public perceptions regarding our reputation, including negative perceptions regarding our ability to maintain the security of our technology systems and protect customer data, could lead to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with us or significantly increase the costs of attracting and retaining customers. In addition, negative perceptions regarding certain industries, partners or clients could also prompt us to cease business activities associated with those entities. Negative public opinion or damage to our brand could also result from actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities or circumstances, including lending practices, regulatory compliance, security breaches (including the use and protection of customer data, such as resulting from the Cybersecurity Incident), corporate governance and sales and marketing, and from actions taken by regulators or other persons in response to such conduct. Such conduct could fall short of our customers’ and the public’s heightened expectations of companies of our size with rigorous privacy, data protection, data security and compliance practices, and could further harm our reputation. In addition, our co-brand and private label partners or other third parties with whom we have important relationships may take actions over which we have limited control that could negatively impact perceptions about us or the financial services industry. The proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood that negative public opinion from any of the events discussed above will impact our reputation and business. In addition, a variety of social factors may cause changes in borrowing activity, including credit card use, payment patterns and the rate of defaults by account holders and borrowers domestically and internationally. These social factors include changes in consumer confidence levels, the public’s perception regarding the banking industry and consumer debt, including credit card use, and changing attitudes about the stigma of bankruptcy. If consumers develop or maintain negative attitudes about incurring debt, or if consumption trends decline or if we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, or we incur significant expenses to do so, our business and financial results could be materially and negatively affected. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected. We rely on a variety of measures to protect and enhance our intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to and distribution of our other proprietary information. These measures may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights and a resulting loss of competitive advantage. In addition, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents for innovations that are used in our industry or allege that our systems, processes or technologies infringe on their intellectual property rights. If our competitors or other third parties are successful in obtaining such patents or prevail in intellectual property-related litigation against us, we could lose significant revenues, incur significant license, royalty or technology development expenses, or pay significant damages. Our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposures in all market environments or against all types of risk. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational and compliance risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to properly record and verify a large number of transactions and events. See “MD&A—Risk Management” for further details. Even though we continue to devote significant resources to developing our risk management framework, our risk management strategies may not be fully effective in identifying and mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing these risks are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior and management’s judgment. These methods may not accurately predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate and market conditions, particularly during a period of financial market stress, can involve unprecedented dislocations. For example, credit risk is inherent in the financial services business and results from, among other things, extending credit to customers. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our consumer and commercial customers become less predictive of future charge-offs due, for example, to rapid changes in the economy, or degradation in the predictive nature of credit bureau and other data used in underwriting. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. For example, our ability to implement our risk management strategies may be hindered by adverse changes in the volatility or liquidity conditions in certain markets and as a result, may limit our ability to distribute such risks (for instance, when we seek to syndicate exposure in bridge financing transactions we have underwritten). We may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our risk management or investing activities. Fluctuations in market interest rates or volatility in the capital markets could adversely affect our income and expense, the value of assets and obligations, our regulatory capital, cost of capital or liquidity. Like other financial institutions, our business is sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the capital markets. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility across the capital markets could negatively impact market liquidity, limit our access to the funding and capital required to operate and grow our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us. For example, we borrow money from other institutions and depositors, which we use to make loans to customers and invest in debt securities and other interest-earning assets. We earn interest on these loans and assets and pay interest on the money we borrow from institutions and depositors. The interest rates that we pay on the securities we have issued are also influenced by, among other things, applicable credit ratings from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to any of these credit ratings could affect our ability to access the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Increased charge-offs, rising interest rates and other events may cause our securitization transactions to amortize earlier than scheduled, which could accelerate our need for additional funding from other sources. Fluctuations in interest rates, including changes in the relationship between short-term rates and long-term rates and in the relationship between our funding basis rate and our lending basis rate, may have negative impacts on our net interest income and therefore our earnings. In addition, interest rate fluctuations and competitor responses to those changes may affect the rate of customer prepayments for auto and other term loans and may affect the balances customers carry on their credit cards. For example, increases in interest rates increase debt service requirements for some of our borrowers, which may adversely affect those borrowers’ ability to pay as contractually obligated. This could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs and negatively impact our results of operations. These changes can reduce the overall yield on our interest-earning asset portfolio. Changes in interest rates and competitor responses to these changes may also impact customer decisions to maintain balances in the deposit accounts they have with us. An inability to attract or maintain deposits could materially affect our ability to fund our business and our liquidity position. Many other financial institutions have increased their reliance on deposit funding and, as such, we expect continued competition in the deposit markets. We cannot predict how this competition will affect our costs. If we are required to offer higher interest rates to attract or maintain deposits, our funding costs will be adversely impacted. Changes in valuations in the debt and equity markets could have a negative impact on the assets we hold in our investment portfolio. Such market changes could also have a negative impact on the valuation of assets for which we provide servicing. We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings, economic value and capital under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction and the magnitude of interest rate changes. We take risk mitigation actions based on those assessments. We face the risk that changes in interest rates could materially reduce our net interest income and our earnings, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than those we assumed. See “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” for additional information. The transition away from LIBOR may adversely affect our business. Central banks around the world, including the Federal Reserve, have commissioned committees and working groups of market participants and official sector representatives to replace LIBOR and replace or reform other interest rate benchmarks. The publication of non-U.S. dollar LIBOR rates on a representative basis, as well as the publication of the lesser used 1-week and 2-month U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors, ceased as of the end of December 2021. While the most commonly used U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors are expected to continue to be published until June 30, 2023, the U.S. banking agencies issued guidance that banking organizations should cease using U.S. dollar LIBOR as a reference rate in new contracts in any event by December 31, 2021. A transition away from the widespread use of LIBOR to alternative rates and other potential interest rate benchmark reforms has begun and is continuing. These reforms have caused and may in the future cause such rates to perform differently than in the past, or to disappear entirely, or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. Given LIBOR’s extensive use across financial markets, the transition away from LIBOR presents several risks and challenges to the financial markets and financial institutions, including Capital One. We have loans, derivative contracts, unsecured debt, securitizations, vendor agreements and other instruments with attributes that are either directly or indirectly dependent on LIBOR. Uncertainty as to the nature of potential changes, alternative reference rates (including the pace of transition to, the specific terms and parameters for, and market acceptance of, such rates), or other reforms may adversely affect market liquidity, the pricing of LIBOR-based instruments, and the availability and cost of associated hedging instruments and borrowings. The Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) has been recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”) as an alternative to U.S. dollar LIBOR. Nevertheless, the transition away from LIBOR could result in loss of market share in certain products, adverse tax or accounting impacts, compliance, legal or operational costs and risks associated with client disclosures, as well as systems disruption, model disruption and other business continuity issues for us. In addition, risks will remain for us with respect to outstanding instruments which rely on LIBOR. Those risks arise in connection with transitioning such instruments to a new reference rate, the taking of discretionary actions (for example, under fallback provisions) or the negotiation of fallback provisions and final amendments to existing LIBOR based agreements. Payments under contracts referencing new reference rates may significantly differ from those referencing LIBOR. For some instruments, the method of transitioning to a new reference rate may be challenging, especially if parties to an instrument cannot agree as to how to effect that transition. If a contract is not transitioned to a new reference rate and LIBOR ceases to exist, the impact on our obligations is likely to vary by contract. In addition, prior to LIBOR cessation, instruments that continue to refer to LIBOR may be impacted if there is a change in the availability or calculation of LIBOR. The transition from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate has changed our market risk profile and required changes to risk and pricing models, valuation tools, product design, information technology systems, reporting infrastructure, operational processes and controls, and hedging strategies, and may result in or require further such changes in the future. In many cases, we are and may in the future be dependent on third parties to upgrade systems, software and other critical functions that could materially disrupt our readiness if they are not done on a timely basis or otherwise fail. Our assessment of the ultimate impact of, and our planning for, the transition from LIBOR remains ongoing. Failure to adequately manage the transition could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. See “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” for additional information. Our business could be negatively affected if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate skilled employees. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to retain key senior leaders and to attract and retain skilled employees, particularly employees with advanced expertise in credit, risk, digital and technology skills. We depend on our senior leaders and skilled employees to oversee simultaneous, transformative initiatives across the enterprise and execute on our business plans in an efficient and effective manner. Competition for such senior leaders and employees, and the costs associated with attracting and retaining them, is high and made even more competitive as a result of the external environment, including increasing rates of job transition and low unemployment. Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees also is affected by perceptions of our culture and management, our profile in the regions where we have offices and the professional opportunities we offer. Regulation or regulatory guidance restricting executive compensation, as well as evolving investor expectations, may limit the types of compensation arrangements that we may enter into with our most senior leaders and could have a negative impact on our ability to attract, retain and motivate such leaders in support of our long-term strategy. These laws and regulations may not apply in the same manner to all financial institutions and technology companies, which therefore may subject us to more restrictions than other institutions and companies with which we compete for talent and may also hinder our ability to compete for talent with other industries. We rely upon our senior leaders not only for business success, but also to lead with integrity. To the extent our senior leaders behave in a manner that does not comport with our values, the consequences to our brand and reputation could be severe and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract, develop and retain talented senior leadership and employees, or to implement appropriate succession plans for our senior leadership, our business could be negatively affected. We face risks from unpredictable catastrophic events. Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, such plans do not fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to us. Natural disasters and other catastrophic events could harm our employees, business and infrastructure, including our information technology systems and third-party platforms. Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located, which are concentrated in the Northern Virginia and New York metropolitan areas, as well as Richmond, Virginia and Plano, Texas. This may include a disruption involving damage or loss of access to a physical site, cyber-attacks and other security incidents, terrorist activities, the occurrence or worsening of disease outbreaks or pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), natural disasters, extreme weather events (including as a result of climate change), electrical outage, environmental hazards, disruption to technological infrastructure, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be impacted by any such disruption and our ability to implement corresponding response measures quickly, including, for example, our ability to respond effectively to a remote work environment as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related response measures. In addition, if a natural disaster or other catastrophic event occurs in certain regions where our business and customers are concentrated, such as the mid-Atlantic, New York, California or Texas metropolitan areas, we could be disproportionately impacted as compared to our competitors. The impact of such events and other catastrophes on the overall economy may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Climate change manifesting as physical or transition risks could adversely affect our operations, businesses and customers. The physical risks of climate change include discrete events, such as flooding and wildfires, and longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as extreme heat, sea level rise, and more frequent and prolonged drought. Such events could disrupt our operations or those of our customers or third parties on which we rely, including through direct damage to assets and indirect impacts from supply chain disruption and market volatility. Additionally, transitioning to a low-carbon economy may entail significant policy, legal, technology and market initiatives. Transition risks, including changes in consumer preferences and additional regulatory requirements or taxes, could increase our expenses and impact our strategies or those of our customers. Physical and transition risks could also affect the financial health of certain customers in impacted industries or geographies. In addition, our reputation and client relationships may be damaged as a result of our practices and decisions related to climate change and the environment, or the practices or involvement of our clients, in certain industries or projects associated with causing or exacerbating climate change. Climate risk is interconnected with many risk types. We continue to enhance processes to embed evolving climate risk considerations into our risk management strategies established for risks such as market, credit and operational risks; however, because the timing and severity of climate change may not be predictable, our risk management strategies may not be effective in mitigating climate risk exposure. We face risks from the use of or changes to assumptions or estimates in our financial statements. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (“U.S. GAAP”), we are required to use certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including determining our allowance for credit losses, the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, and goodwill impairment, among other items. In addition, the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory bodies may change the financial accounting and reporting standards, including those related to assumptions and estimates we use to prepare our financial statements, in ways that we cannot predict and that could impact our financial statements. If actual results differ from the assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements or if financial accounting and reporting standards are changed, we may experience unexpected material losses. For a discussion of our use of estimates in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, see “MD&A—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” The soundness of other financial institutions and other third parties could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the stability and actions of other financial services institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, servicing, counterparty and other relationships. We have exposure to financial institutions, intermediaries and counterparties that are exposed to risks over which we have little or no control. In addition, we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients, resulting in a significant credit concentration with respect to the financial services industry overall. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Likewise, adverse developments affecting the overall strength and soundness of our competitors, the financial services industry as a whole and the general economic climate or sovereign debt could have a negative impact on perceptions about the strength and soundness of our business even if we are not subject to the same adverse developments. In addition, adverse developments with respect to third parties with whom we have important relationships also could negatively impact perceptions about us. These perceptions about us could cause our business to be negatively affected and exacerbate the other risks that we face.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based upon management’s current expectations and are subject to significant uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Please review “Part I—Item 1. Business—Forward-Looking Statements” for more information on the forward-looking statements in this 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K (“this Report”). All statements that address operating performance, events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, including those relating to operating results and the Cybersecurity Incident described in “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others” as well as the potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic described in “Part I—Item 1.—Business—Overview—Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic” are forward-looking statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those included in these forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors including, but not limited to, those described in “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Report. Unless otherwise specified, references to notes to our consolidated financial statements refer to the notes to our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2021 included in this Report. Management monitors a variety of key indicators to evaluate our business results and financial condition. The following MD&A is intended to provide the reader with an understanding of our results of operations and financial condition, including capital and liquidity management, by focusing on changes from year to year in certain key measures used by management to evaluate performance, such as profitability, growth and credit quality metrics. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021 and accompanying notes. MD&A is organized in the following sections: Financial Highlights We reported net income of $12.4 billion ($26.94 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $30.4 billion for 2021. In comparison, we reported net income of $2.7 billion ($5.18 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $28.5 billion for 2020 and net income of $5.5 billion ($11.05 per diluted common share) on total net revenue of $28.6 billion for 2019. Our common equity Tier 1 capital ratio as calculated under the Basel III Standardized Approach was 13.1% and 13.7% as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See “MD&A—Capital Management” for additional information. On January 25, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $7.5 billion of shares of our common stock. We repurchased approximately $2.6 billion of shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2021 to complete this authorization. On January 21, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of shares of our common stock.  See “MD&A—Capital Management—Dividend Policy and Stock Purchases” for additional information. Below are additional highlights of our performance in 2021. These highlights are based on a comparison between the results of 2021 and 2020, except as otherwise noted. The changes in our financial condition and credit performance are generally based on our financial condition and credit performance as of December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. We provide a more detailed discussion of our financial performance in the sections following this “Executive Summary and Business Outlook.” Discussions of our performance in 2019 and comparisons between 2020 and 2019 can be found in “Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. Total Company Performance • Earnings: Our net income increased by $9.7 billion to $12.4 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by: ◦ higher net interest income primarily driven by lower interest rates paid on interest-bearing deposits and higher average outstanding balances in our auto loan portfolio; ◦ higher non-interest income primarily driven by higher net interchange fees due to an increase in purchase volume, partially offset by the absence of a gain on our equity investment in Snowflake Inc.; and ◦ lower provision resulting from allowance releases in 2021 due to strong credit performance and an improved economic outlook, compared to allowance builds in 2020 driven by expectations of economic worsening at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. These drivers were partially offset by higher non-interest expense, primarily driven by increased marketing spend. • Loans Held for Investment : ◦ Period-end loans held for investment increased by $25.7 billion to $277.3 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by growth in our auto, commercial and credit card loan portfolios. ◦ Average loans held for investment decreased by $605 million to $252.7 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by lower outstanding balances in Credit Card due to higher customer payments and the transfer of a $2.6 billion international card partnership portfolio to held for sale in the second quarter of 2021, partially offset by higher purchase volume in our credit card loan portfolio as well as growth in our auto loan portfolio. • Net Charge-Off and Delinquency Metrics: Our net charge-off rate decreased by 118 basis points to 0.88% in 2021 compared to 2020, driven by strong credit performance in our credit card loan portfolio. Our 30+ day delinquency rate decreased by 20 basis points to 2.41% as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by higher ending loan balances and strong credit performance in our auto and credit card loan portfolios. • Allowance for Credit Losses: Our allowance for credit losses decreased by $4.1 billion to $11.4 billion, and our allowance coverage ratio decreased by 207 basis points to 4.12% as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020, primarily driven by strong credit performance and an improved economic outlook. Business Outlook We discuss in this Report our expectations as of the time this Report was filed regarding our total company performance and the performance of our business segments based on market conditions, the regulatory environment and our business strategies. The statements contained in this Report are based on our current expectations regarding our outlook for our financial results and business strategies. Our expectations take into account, and should be read in conjunction with, our expectations regarding economic trends and analysis of our business as discussed in “Part I—Item 1. Business” and “Part II—Item 7. MD&A” in this Report. Certain statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements. Except as otherwise disclosed, forward-looking statements do not reflect: • any change in current dividend or repurchase strategies; • the effect of any acquisitions, divestitures or similar transactions that have not been previously disclosed; or • any changes in laws, regulations or regulatory interpretations, in each case after the date as of which such statements are made. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic ultimately impacts our business, results of operations, and financial condition will depend on future developments that are still uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Forward-Looking Statements” in this Report for more information on the forward-looking statements and “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Report for factors that could materially influence our results. Total Company Expectations • We will continue to invest in marketing to grow our businesses and build our franchise. • We expect the rising cost of technology talent, on top of the company’s continued growth investments, will put pressure on our operating efficiency ratio in the near term. • We believe that we will be able to drive operating efficiency improvement in the longer term powered by growth and digital productivity gains. The section below provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated financial performance for 2021 and 2020. We provide a discussion of our business segment results in the following section, “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance.” This section should be read together with our “MD&A—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” where we discuss trends and other factors that we expect will affect our future results of operations. Net Interest Income Net interest income represents the difference between interest income, including certain fees, earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-earning assets include loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, while our interest-bearing liabilities include interest-bearing deposits, securitized debt obligations, senior and subordinated notes, other borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Generally, we include in interest income any past due fees on loans that we deem collectible. Our net interest margin, based on our consolidated results, represents the difference between the yield on our interest-earning assets and the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities, including the notional impact of non-interest-bearing funding. We expect net interest income and our net interest margin to fluctuate based on changes in interest rates and changes in the amount and composition of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Table 1 below presents the average outstanding balance, interest income earned, interest expense incurred and average yield for 2021, 2020 and 2019 for each major category of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Nonperforming loans are included in the average loan balances below. Table 1: Average Balances, Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin __________ (1) Past due fees included in interest income totaled approximately $1.4 billion in 2021, $1.3 billion in 2020 and $1.7 billion in 2019. (2) Some of our commercial loans generate tax-exempt income. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking interest income and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory rate (21% for all periods presented) and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category. Taxable-equivalent adjustments included in the interest income and yield computations for our commercial loans totaled approximately $74 million in 2021, $81 million in 2020 and $82 million in 2019 , with corresponding reductions to the Other category. (3) Interest income/expense in the Other category represents the impact of hedge accounting on our loan portfolios and the offsetting reduction of the taxable-equivalent adjustments of our commercial loans as described above. **    Not meaningful. Net interest income increased by $1.3 billion to $24.2 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by lower interest rates paid on interest-bearing deposits and higher average outstanding balances in our auto loan portfolio. Net interest margin increased by 15 basis points to 6.21% in 2021 compared to 2020, primarily driven by lower interest rates paid on interest-bearing deposits, partially offset by lower yields and higher average balances in our investment securities portfolio. Table 2 displays the change in our net interest income between periods and the extent to which the variance is attributable to: • changes in the volume of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities; or • changes in the interest rates related to these assets and liabilities. Table 2: Rate/Volume Analysis of Net Interest Income (1) __________ (1) We calculate the change in interest income and interest expense separately for each item. The portion of interest income or interest expense attributable to both volume and rate is allocated proportionately when the calculation results in a positive value. When the portion of interest income or interest expense attributable to both volume and rate results in a negative value, the total amount is allocated to volume or rate, depending on which amount is positive. (2) Some of our commercial loans generate tax-exempt income. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking interest income and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory rate (21% for all periods presented) and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category. (3) Interest income/expense in the Other category represents the impact of hedge accounting on our loan portfolios and the offsetting reduction of the taxable-equivalent adjustments of our commercial loans as described above. Non-Interest Income Table 3 displays the components of non-interest income for 2021, 2020 and 2019. Table 3: Non-Interest Income ________ (1) Includes gains of $69 million, $45 million and $61 million on deferred compensation plan investments in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These amounts have corresponding offsets in other non-interest expense. Non-interest income increased by $654 million to $6.3 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by higher net interchange fees due to a $113 billion increase in purchase volume in Credit Card, partially offset by the absence of a $535 million gain on our equity investment in Snowflake Inc. Provision for Credit Losses Our provision for credit losses in each period is driven by net charge-offs, changes to the allowance for credit losses and changes to the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. We recorded a provision for credit losses of $(1.9) billion in 2021, $10.3 billion in 2020 and $6.2 billion in 2019 . Our provision for credit losses decreased by $12.2 billion to $(1.9) billion in 2021 compared to 2020 as a result of allowance releases in 2021 due to strong credit performance and an improved economic outlook, compared to allowance builds in 2020 driven by expectations of economic worsening at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. We provide additional information on the provision for credit losses and changes in the allowance for credit losses within “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile” and “Note 4—Allowance for Credit Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.” For information on the allowance methodology for each of our loan categories, see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”. Non-Interest Expense Table 4 displays the components of non-interest expense for 2021, 2020 and 2019. Table 4: Non-Interest Expense _________ (1) Includes expenses of $69 million , $45 million and $61 million related to our deferred compensation plan investments for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These amounts have corresponding offsets in other non-interest income. Non-interest expense increased by $1.5 billion to $16.6 billion in the year ended 2021 compared to 2020, primarily driven by increased marketing spend and increased salaries and associate benefits due to continued investment in technology, partially offset by lower legal reserve builds. Income Taxes We recorded an income tax provision of $3.4 billion (21.6% effective income tax rate), $486 million (15.2% effective income tax rate), $1.3 billion (19.5% effective income tax rate) in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our effective tax rate on income from continuing operations varies between periods due, in part, to the impact of changes in pre-tax income and changes in tax credits, tax-exempt income and non-deductible expenses relative to our pre-tax earnings. Our effective income tax rate in 2021 increased compared to 2020 primarily driven by the impact of changes in pre-tax income and the relationship of our tax credits in proportion to our pre-tax earnings partially offset by lower non-deductible expenses. We recorded discrete tax benefits of $66 million in 2021, $22 million in 2020 and $19 million in 2019. We provide additional information on items affecting our income taxes and effective tax rate in “Note 15—Income Taxes”. Total assets increased by $10.8 billion to $432.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by growth in our loan portfolios and allowance releases, partially offset by a decrease in our cash balances. Total liabilities increased by $10.0 billion to $371.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by deposit growth and net issuances in our securitization programs. Stockholders’ equity increased by $825 million to $61.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily due to our net income of $12.4 billion, partially offset by common stock repurchase activity and a decrease in accumulated other comprehensive income primarily driven by a decline the fair value of our investment securities portfolio due to increased interest rates. The following is a discussion of material changes in the major components of our assets and liabilities during 2021. Period-end balance sheet amounts may vary from average balance sheet amounts due to liquidity and balance sheet management activities that are intended to support the adequacy of capital while managing our liquidity requirements, our customers and our market risk exposure in accordance with our risk appetite. Investment Securities Our investment securities portfolio consists of the following: U.S. government-sponsored enterprise or agency (“Agency”) and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”), Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”), U.S. Treasury securities and other securities. Agency securities include Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) guaranteed securities, Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”) issued securities. The carrying value of our investments in Agency and U.S. Treasury securities represented 96% of our total investment securities portfolio as of both December 31, 2021 and 2020. The fair value of our available for sale securities portfolio decreased by $5.2 billion to $95.3 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020, primarily driven by net sales and the increase in interest rates. See “Note 2—Investment Securities” for more information. Loans Held for Investment Total loans held for investment consists of both unsecuritized loans and loans held in our consolidated trusts. Table 5 summarizes, by portfolio segment, the carrying value of our loans held for investment, the allowance for credit losses and net loan balance as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 5: Loans Held for Investment Loans held for investment increased by $25.7 billion to $277.3 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by growth in our auto, commercial and credit card loan portfolios. We provide additional information on the composition of our loan portfolio and credit quality in “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile,” “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations” and “Note 3—Loans.” Funding Sources Our primary source of funding comes from deposits, as they are a stable and relatively low cost source of funding. In addition to deposits, we raise funding through the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, securitized debt obligations, federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, and Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”) advances secured by certain portions of our loan and securities portfolios. Table 6 provides the composition of our primary sources of funding as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 6: Funding Sources Composition __________ (1) Includes brokered deposits of $8.6 billion and $15.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Total deposits increased by $5.5 billion to $311.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increased consumer savings , as well as commercial clients holding elevated levels of liquidity, partially offset by maturities of brokered deposits. Securitized debt obligations increased by $2.6 billion to $15.0 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by net issuances in our securitization programs. Other debt remained substantially flat at $28.1 billion as of December 31, 2021. We provide additional information on our funding sources in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile” and “Note 8—Deposits and Borrowings.” Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized subject to management’s judgment that these future deductions are more likely than not to be realized. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions by assessing the adequacy of expected taxable income from all sources, including taxable income in carryback years, reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. We use our historical experience and our short and long-range business forecasts to provide insight. Deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities and valuation allowances, were approximately $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2021, an increase of $382 million from December 31, 2020. The increase in our net deferred tax assets was primarily driven by the decrease in fair value of our available for sale securities, partially offset by the decrease in allowance for credit losses in 2021. We recorded valuation allowances of $355 million and $296 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. If changes in circumstances lead us to change our judgment about our ability to realize deferred tax assets in future years, we will adjust our valuation allowances in the period that our change in judgment occurs and record a corresponding increase or charge to income. We provide additional information on income taxes in “MD&A—Consolidated Results of Operations” and “Note 15—Income Taxes.” In the ordinary course of business, we engage in certain activities that are not reflected on our consolidated balance sheets, generally referred to as off-balance sheet arrangements. These activities typically involve transactions with unconsolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) as well as other arrangements, such as letters of credit, loan commitments and guarantees, to meet the financing needs of our customers and support their ongoing operations. We provide additional information regarding these types of activities in “Note 5—Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations” and “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.” Our principal operations are organized for management reporting purposes into three major business segments, which are defined primarily based on the products and services provided or the types of customer served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into or managed as a part of our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group and calculation of our residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments, are included in the Other category. The results of our individual businesses, which we report on a continuing operations basis, reflect the manner in which management evaluates performance and makes decisions about funding our operations and allocating resources. We may periodically change our business segments or reclassify business segment results based on modifications to our management reporting methodologies and changes in organizational alignment. Our business segment results are intended to reflect each segment as if it were a stand-alone business. We use an internal management and reporting process to derive our business segment results. Our internal management and reporting process employs various allocation methodologies, including funds transfer pricing, to assign certain balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenue and expenses directly or indirectly attributable to each business segment. Total interest income and non-interest income are directly attributable to the segment in which they are reported. The net interest income of each segment reflects the results of our funds transfer pricing process, which is primarily based on a matched funding concept that takes into consideration market interest rates. Our funds transfer pricing process provides a funds credit for sources of funds, such as deposits generated by our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses, and a charge for the use of funds by each segment. The allocation process is unique to each business segment and acquired business. We regularly assess the assumptions, methodologies and reporting classifications used for segment reporting, which may result in the implementation of refinements or changes in future periods. We refer to the business segment results derived from our internal management accounting and reporting process as our “managed” presentation, which differs in some cases from our reported results prepared based on U.S. GAAP. There is no comprehensive authoritative body of guidance for management accounting equivalent to U.S. GAAP; therefore, the managed presentation of our business segment results may not be comparable to similar information provided by other financial services companies. In addition, our individual business segment results should not be used as a substitute for comparable results determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We summarize our business segment results for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 and provide a comparative discussion of these results for 2021 and 2020, as well as changes in our financial condition and credit performance metrics as of December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. We provide a reconciliation of our total business segment results to our reported consolidated results in “Note 17—Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” Business Segment Financial Performance Table 7 summarizes our business segment results, which we report based on revenue (loss) and income (loss) from continuing operations, for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. We provide information on the allocation methodologies used to derive our business segment results in “Note 17—Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers.” Table 7 : Business Segment Results __________ (1) Total net revenue (loss) consists of net interest income and non-interest income. (2) Net income (loss) for our business segments and the Other category is based on income (loss) from continuing operations, net of tax. (3) Some of our commercial investments generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking revenue and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory tax rate of 21% and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category. Credit Card Business The primary sources of revenue for our Credit Card business are net interest income, net interchange income and fees collected from customers. Expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating costs and marketing expenses. Our Credit Card business generated net income from continuing operations of $7.8 billion, $1.4 billion and $3.1 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019 respectively. Table 8 summarizes the financial results of our Credit Card business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. Table 8: Credit Card Business Results __________ (1) We recognize finance charges and fee income on open-ended loans in accordance with the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements and charge off uncollectible amounts. Total net revenue was reduced by $629 million and $1.1 billion in 2021 and 2020, respectively, for credit card finance charges and fees charged off as uncollectible and by $1.4 billion in 2019, for the estimated uncollectible amount of billed finance charges and fees and related losses. (2) Average yield is calculated based on interest income for the period divided by average loans during the period and does not include any allocations, such as funds transfer pricing. (3) Total net revenue margin is calculated based on total net revenue for the period divided by average loans during the period. (4) Within our credit card loan portfolio, only certain loans in our international card businesses are classified as nonperforming. See “MD&A—Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets” for additional information. **    Not meaningful. Key factors affecting the results of our Credit Card business for 2021 compared to 2020, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2021 and 2020 include the following: • Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $298 million to $14.1 billion in 2021 primarily driven by higher margins, partially offset by lower average loan balances. • Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income increased by $983 million to $4.8 billion in 2021 primarily driven by higher net interchange fees due to an increase in purchase volume. • Provision for Credit Losses: Provision for credit losses decreased by $8.2 billion to a benefit of $902 million in 2021 resulting from allowance releases in 2021 due to strong credit performance and an improved economic outlook, compared to allowance builds in 2020 driven by expectations of economic worsening at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. • Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $1.1 billion to $9.6 billion in 2021 primarily driven by increased marketing spend. • Loans Held for Investment: ◦ Period-end loans held for investment increased by $7.8 billion to $114.8 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily due to higher purchase volume, partially offset by higher customer payments and the transfer of a $2.6 billion international card partnership portfolio to held for sale in the second quarter of 2021. ◦ Average loans held for investment decreased by $7.4 billion to $102.7 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to higher customer payments and the transfer of a $2.6 billion international card partnership portfolio to held for sale in the second quarter of 2021, partially offset by higher purchase volume. • Net Charge-Off and Delinquency Metrics: The net charge-off rate decreased by 198 basis points to 1.90% in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by strong credit performance. The 30+ day delinquency rate decreased by 16 basis points to 2.29% as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 driven by higher ending loan balances and strong credit performance. Domestic Card Business The Domestic Card business generated net income from continuing operations of $7.3 billion, $1.2 billion and $3.0 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019 respectively. In 2021, 2020 and 2019, the Domestic Card business accounted for greater than 90% of total net revenue of our Credit Card business. Table 8.1 summarizes the financial results for Domestic Card business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. Table 8.1: Domestic Card Business Results __________ (1) We recognize finance charges and fee income on open-ended loans in accordance with the contractual provisions of the credit arrangements and charge off uncollectible amounts. Finance charges and fees charged off as uncollectible are reflected as a reduction in total net revenue. (2) Average yield is calculated based on interest income for the period divided by average loans during the period and does not include any allocations, such as funds transfer pricing. (3) Total net revenue margin is calculated based on total net revenue for the period divided by average loans during the period. **    Not meaningful. Because our Domestic Card business accounts for the substantial majority of our Credit Card business, the key factors driving the results are similar to the key factors affecting our total Credit Card business. Net income for our Domestic Card business increased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by: • Higher net interest income in 2021 primarily driven by higher margins, partially offset by lower average loan balances. • Higher non-interest income in 2021 primarily due to higher net interchange fees from an increase in purchase volume. • Lower provision for credit losses resulting from allowance releases in 2021 due to strong credit performance and an improved economic outlook, compared to allowance builds in 2020 driven by expectations of economic worsening at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. These drivers were partially offset by higher non-interest expense in 2021 primarily driven by increased marketing spend. Consumer Banking Business The primary sources of revenue for our Consumer Banking business are net interest income from loans and deposits as well as service charges and customer-related fees. Expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating costs and marketing expenses. Our Consumer Banking business generated net income from continuing operations of $3.7 billion, $1.4 billion and $1.8 billion in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Table 9 summarizes the financial results of our Consumer Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. Table 9: Consumer Banking Business Results __________ (1) Average yield is calculated based on interest income for the period divided by average loans during the period and does not include any allocations, such as funds transfer pricing. (2) Nonperforming assets primarily consist of nonperforming loans and repossessed assets. The total nonperforming asset rate is calculated based on total nonperforming assets divided by the combined period-end total loans held for investment and repossessed assets. **    Not meaningful. Key factors affecting the results of our Consumer Banking business for 2021 compared to 2020, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2021 and 2020 include the following: • Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $1.2 billion to $8.4 billion in 2021 primarily driven by higher margins and deposits in our Retail Banking business as well as growth in our auto loan portfolio. • Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income increased by $88 million to $554 million in 2021 primarily driven by growth in our auto loan portfolio and higher interchange fees from an increase in debit card purchase volume. • Provision for Credit Losses: Provision for credit losses decreased by $2.3 billion to a benefit of $521 million in 2021 resulting from allowance releases in 2021 due to strong credit performance, an improved economic outlook and auction price favorability, compared to allowance builds in 2020 driven by expectations of economic worsening at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. • Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $552 million to $4.7 billion in 2021 primarily driven by continued investment in infrastructure and technology, as well as increased marketing spend and growth in our auto loan portfolio. • Loans Held for Investment: ◦ Period-end loans held for investment increased by $8.8 billion to $77.6 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by growth in our auto loan portfolio due to higher originations. ◦ Average loans held for investment increased by $7.6 billion to $73.9 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by growth in our auto loan portfolio due to higher originations. • Deposits: Period-end deposits increased by $6.6 billion to $256.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increased consumer savings . • Net Charge-Off and Delinquency Metrics: The net charge-off rate decreased by 50 basis points to 0.37% in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily driven by strong credit performance in our auto loan portfolio, including the impact of auction price favorability. The 30+ day delinquency rate decreased by 34 basis points to 4.66% as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 driven by growth and strong credit performance in our auto loan portfolio. Commercial Banking Business The primary sources of revenue for our Commercial Banking business are net interest income from loans and deposits and non-interest income earned from products and services provided to our clients such as capital markets and treasury management. Because our Commercial Banking business has loans and investments that generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits, we present the revenues on a taxable-equivalent basis. Expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses and operating costs. Our Commercial Banking business generated net income from continuing operations of $1.5 billion, $65 million and $621 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019 respectively. Table 10 summarizes the financial results of our Commercial Banking business and displays selected key metrics for the periods indicated. Table 10: Commercial Banking Business Results __________ (1) Some of our commercial investments generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking revenue and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory tax rate of 21% and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category. (2) The provision for losses on unfunded lending commitments is included in the provision for credit losses in our consolidated statements of income and the related reserve is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Our reserve for unfunded lending commitments totaled $165 million, $195 million, and $130 million as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. (3) Average yield is calculated based on interest income for the period divided by average loans during the period and does not include any allocations, such as funds transfer pricing. (4) Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans and other foreclosed assets. The total nonperforming asset rate is calculated based on total nonperforming assets divided by the combined period-end total loans held for investment and other foreclosed assets. **    Not meaningful. Key factors affecting the results of our Commercial Banking business for 2021 compared to 2020, and changes in financial condition and credit performance between December 31, 2021 and 2020 include the following: • Net Interest Income: Net interest income increased by $105 million to $2.2 billion in 2021 primarily driven by growth across our loan portfolios and higher average deposit balances, partially offset by a one-time charge for unwinding the internal funding related to moving $1.5 billion in loans to held for sale in the second quarter of 2021. • Non-Interest Income: Non-interest income increased by $225 million to $1.1 billion in 2021 driven by higher activity in our capital markets business. • Provision for Credit Losses: Provision for credit losses decreased by $1.7 billion to a benefit of $519 million in 2021 resulting from allowance releases due to an improved economic outlook and improvement in our energy loan portfolio, compared to allowance builds in 2020 driven by expectations of economic worsening at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as credit deterioration in our energy loan portfolio. • Non-Interest Expense: Non-interest expense increased by $109 million to $1.8 billion in 2021 primarily driven by our continued investment in our growth strategies, as well as infrastructure and technology. • Loans Held for Investment: ◦ Period-end loans held for investment increased by $9.1 billion to $84.9 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 driven by growth across our loan portfolio. ◦ Average loans held for investment decreased by $828 million to $76.1 billion in 2021 compared to 2020 driven by higher utilization of credit lines in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. • Deposits: Period-end deposits increased by $5.2 billion to $44.8 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by elevated client liquidity. • Net Charge-Off and Nonperforming Metrics: The net charge-off rate decreased by 49 basis points to 0.00% in 2021 primarily driven by lower net charge-offs in our energy loan portfolio. The nonperforming loan rate decreased by 4 basis points to 0.82% as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 driven by growth and improvements in our energy loan portfolio, partially offset by isolated credit downgrades in our real estate portfolio. Other Category Other includes unallocated amounts related to our centralized Corporate Treasury group activities, such as management of our corporate investment securities portfolio, asset/liability management and certain capital management activities. Other also includes: • unallocated corporate revenue and expenses that do not directly support the operations of the business segments or for which the business segments are not considered financially accountable in evaluating their performance, such as certain restructuring charges; • offsets related to certain line-item reclassifications; • residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments; and • foreign exchange-rate fluctuations on foreign currency-denominated balances. Table 11 summarizes the financial results of our Other category for the periods indicated. Table 11: Other Category Results __________ (1) Some of our commercial investments generate tax-exempt income, tax credits or other tax benefits. Accordingly, we present our Commercial Banking revenue and yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, calculated using the federal statutory tax rate of 21% and state taxes where applicable, with offsetting reductions to the Other category. **    Not meaningful. Loss from continuing operations increased by $496 million to a loss of $572 million in 2021, primarily driven by the absence of a $535 million gain on our equity investment in Snowflake Inc. in 2020, lower net interest income due to the declines in interest rates and higher deposits. These drivers were partially offset by lower legal reserve builds in non-interest expense and an increase in income tax benefit due to a higher pre-tax loss and the impact of the tax credits. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make a number of judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the amount of assets, liabilities, income and expenses on the consolidated financial statements. Understanding our accounting policies and the extent to which we use management judgment and estimates in applying these policies is integral to understanding our financial statements. We provide a summary of our significant accounting policies under “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”. We have identified the following accounting estimates as critical because they require significant judgments and assumptions about highly complex and inherently uncertain matters and the use of reasonably different estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our critical accounting policies and estimates are as follows: • Loan loss reserves • Goodwill • Fair value • Customer rewards reserve We evaluate our critical accounting estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis and update them as necessary, based on changing conditions. Loan Loss Reserves We maintain an allowance for credit losses that represents management’s current estimate of expected credit losses inherent in our credit card, consumer banking and commercial banking loans held for investment portfolios as of each balance sheet date. We also separately reserve for unfunded lending commitments that are not unconditionally cancellable. For all such loans and unfunded lending commitments, our estimate of expected credit losses includes a reasonable and supportable forecast period of one year and then reverts over a one-year period to historical losses at each relevant loss component of the estimate. We build our allowance for credit losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments through the provision for credit losses, which is driven by charge-offs, changes in the allowance for credit losses and changes in the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. The allowance for credit losses was $11.4 billion as of December 31, 2021, compared to $15.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. In periods prior to 2020, the allowance for loan and lease losses represented management’s estimate of incurred loan and lease losses as fully described in “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. We have an established process, using analytical tools and management judgment, to determine our allowance for credit losses. Significant management judgement is required to determine the relevant information and estimation methods used to arrive at our best estimate of lifetime losses. Establishing the allowance on a quarterly basis involves evaluating both credit and macroeconomic variables. The macroeconomic forecast used to inform both quantitative and qualitative components of our allowance for credit losses estimate is sensitive to variables that impact borrowers’ ability to pay, such as the U.S. Unemployment Rate, and the U.S. Real Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) Rate assumptions. In addition to macroeconomic factors, many credit factors inform our allowance for credit losses, including, but not limited to, historical loss and recovery experience, recent trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, risk ratings, the impact of bankruptcy filings, the value of collateral underlying secured loans, account seasoning, changes in our credit evaluation, underwriting and collection management policies, seasonality, credit bureau scores, current general economic conditions, changes in the legal and regulatory environment and uncertainties in forecasting and modeling techniques used in estimating our allowance for credit losses. We have a governance framework intended to ensure that our estimate of the allowance for credit losses is appropriate. Our governance framework provides for oversight of methods, models, qualitative adjustments, process controls and results. At least quarterly, representatives from the Finance and Risk Management organizations review and assess our allowance methodologies, key assumptions and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses. Groups independent of our estimation functions participate in the review and validation process. Tasks performed by these groups include periodic review of the rationale for and quantification of inputs requiring judgment as well as adjustments to results. We have a model policy, established by an independent Model Risk Office, which governs the validation of models and related supporting documentation to ensure the appropriate use of models for estimating credit losses. The Model Risk Office validates all models and requires ongoing monitoring of their performance. In addition to the allowance for credit losses, on a quarterly basis, we review and assess our estimate of expected losses related to unfunded lending commitments that are not unconditionally cancellable. The factors impacting our assessment generally align with those considered in our evaluation of the allowance for credit losses for the Commercial Banking business. The  reserve for losses on unfunded lending commitments is included in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets and changes to it are recorded through the provision for credit losses in the consolidated statements of income. Although we examine a variety of externally available data, as well as our internal loan performance data, to determine our allowance for credit losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, our estimation process is subject to risks and uncertainties, including a reliance on historical loss and trend information that may not be representative of current conditions and indicative of future performance as well as economic forecasts that may not align with actual future economic conditions. Accordingly, our actual credit loss experience may not be in line with our expectations. We provide additional information on the methodologies and key assumptions used in determining our allowance for credit losses for each of our loan portfolio segments in “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” We provide information on the components of our allowance, disaggregated by operating segment, and changes in our allowance in “Note 4—Allowance for Credit Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.” We reserve for the uncollectible portion of finance charges and fees related to credit card loan receivables in the allowance for credit losses. Our methodology for estimating the uncollectible portion of finance charges and fees is consistent with the methodology we use to estimate the allowance for credit losses on the principal portion of our credit card loan receivables. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. Goodwill totaled $14.8 billion and $14.7 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We did not recognize any goodwill impairment in 2021 and 2020. See “Note 6—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” for additional information. We perform our goodwill impairment test annually on October 1 at a reporting unit level. We are also required to test goodwill for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate it is more-likely-than-not that an impairment may have occurred. An impairment of a reporting unit’s goodwill is determined based on the amount by which the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. We have four reporting units: Credit Card, Auto Finance, Other Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. For the purpose of our goodwill impairment testing, we calculate the carrying amount of a reporting unit using an allocated capital approach based on each reporting unit’s specific regulatory capital requirements, economic capital requirements and underlying risks. The carrying amount for a reporting unit is the sum of its respective capital requirements, goodwill and other intangibles balances. Consolidated stockholder’s equity in excess of the sum of all reporting unit’s capital requirements that is not identified for future capital needs, such as dividends, share buybacks or other strategic initiatives, is allocated to the reporting units and the Other category and assumed distributed to equity holders in future periods. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is a subjective process that requires the use of estimates and the exercise of significant judgment. We calculate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow (“DCF”) calculation, a form of the income approach. This DCF calculation uses projected cash flows based on each reporting unit’s internal forecast and the perpetuity growth method to calculate terminal values. Our DCF calculation requires management to make estimates about future loan, deposit and revenue growth, as well as credit losses and capital rates. These cash flows and terminal values are then discounted using discount rates based on our external cost of capital with adjustments for the risk inherent in each reporting unit. Discount rates used for our reporting units ranged from 8.4% to 12.1%, and we applied a terminal year long-term growth rate of 4.0% to all reporting units. The reasonableness of our DCF calculation is a ssessed by reference to a market-based approach using comparable market multiples and recent market transactions where available. The results of the 2021 annual impairment test for the reporting units indicated that the estimated fair values of the Commercial Banking, Credit Card, Auto Finance, and Other Consumer Banking reporting units exceeded their carrying amounts by between 44% and 131%. Assumptions used in estimating the fair value of a reporting unit are judgmental and inherently uncertain. A change in the economic conditions of a reporting unit, such as declines in business performance from industry or macroeconomic trends or from changes in our strategy, adverse impacts to loan or deposit growth trends, decreases in revenue, increases in expenses, increases in credit losses, increases in capital requirements, deterioration of market conditions, declines in long-term growth expectations, adverse impacts of regulatory or legislative changes or increases in the estimated cost of capital, including if these conditions are merely forecasted to occur in future periods, could cause the estimated fair values of our reporting units to decline in the future, and increase the risk of a goodwill impairment in a future period. Fair Value Fair value, also referred to as an exit price, is defined as the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The fair value accounting guidance provides a three-level fair value hierarchy for classifying financial instruments. This hierarchy is based on the markets in which the assets or liabilities trade and whether the inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure fair value are observable or unobservable. The fair value measurement of a financial asset or liability is assigned a level based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are described below: Level 1: Valuation is based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2: Valuation is based on observable market-based inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3: Valuation is generated from techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market. Valuation techniques include pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques. The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted prices in active markets or observable market parameters. When quoted prices and observable data in active markets are not fully available, management judgment is necessary to estimate fair value. Changes in market conditions, such as reduced liquidity in the capital markets or changes in secondary market activities, may reduce the availability and reliability of quoted prices or observable data used to determine fair value. We have developed policies and procedures to determine when markets for our financial assets and liabilities are inactive if the level and volume of activity has declined significantly relative to normal conditions. If markets are determined to be inactive, it may be appropriate to adjust price quotes received. When significant adjustments are required to price quotes or inputs, it may be appropriate to utilize an estimate based primarily on unobservable inputs. Significant judgment may be required to determine whether certain financial instruments measured at fair value are classified as Level 2 or Level 3. In making this determination, we consider all available information that market participants use to measure the fair value of the financial instrument, including observable market data, indications of market liquidity and orderliness, and our understanding of the valuation techniques and significant inputs used. Based upon the specific facts and circumstances of each instrument or instrument category, judgments are made regarding the significance of the Level 3 inputs to the instruments’ fair value measurement in its entirety. If Level 3 inputs are considered significant, the instrument is classified as Level 3. The process for determining fair value using unobservable inputs is generally more subjective and involves a high degree of management judgment and assumptions. We discuss changes in the valuation inputs and assumptions used in determining the fair value of our financial instruments, including the extent to which we have relied on significant unobservable inputs to estimate fair value and our process for corroborating these inputs, in “Note 16—Fair Value Measurement.” We have a governance framework and a number of key controls that are intended to ensure that our fair value measurements are appropriate and reliable. Our governance framework provides for independent oversight and segregation of duties. Our control processes include review and approval of new transaction types, price verification, and review of valuation judgments, methods, models, process controls and results. Groups independent of our trading and investing functions participate in the review and validation process. Tasks performed by these groups include periodic verification of fair value measurements to determine if assigned fair values are reasonable, including comparing prices from vendor pricing services to other available market information. Our Fair Value Committee (“FVC”), which includes representation from business areas, Risk Management and Finance, provides guidance and oversight to ensure an appropriate valuation control environment. The FVC regularly reviews and approves our fair valuations to ensure that our valuation practices are consistent with industry standards and adhere to regulatory and accounting guidance. We have a model policy, established by an independent Model Risk Office, which governs the validation of models and related supporting documentation to ensure the appropriate use of models for pricing and fair value measurements. The Model Risk Office validates all models and requires ongoing monitoring of their performance. The fair value governance process is set up in a manner that allows the Chairperson of the FVC to escalate valuation disputes that cannot be resolved by the FVC to a more senior committee called the Valuations Advisory Committee (“VAC”) for resolution. The VAC is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and includes other members of senior manageme nt. The VAC convenes to review escalated valuation disputes. There were no disputes for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Customer Rewards Reserve We offer products, primarily credit cards, which include programs that allow members to earn rewards based on account activity that can be redeemed for cash (primarily in the form of statement credits), gift cards, travel, or covering eligible charges. The amount of rewards that a customer earns varies based on the terms and conditions of the rewards program and product. The majority of our rewards do not expire and there is no limit on the amount of rewards an eligible card member can earn. Customer rewards costs, which we generally record as an offset to interchange income, are driven by various factors such as card member purchase volume, the terms and conditions of the rewards program and rewards redemption cost. We establish a customer rewards reserve that reflects management’s judgment regarding rewards earned that are expected to be redeemed and the estimated redemption cost. We use financial models to estimate ultimate redemption rates of rewards earned to date by current card members based on historical redemption trends, current enrollee redemption behavior, card product type, year of program enrollment, enrollment tenure and card spend levels. Our current assumption is that the vast majority of all rewards earned will eventually be redeemed. We use the weighted-average redemption cost during the previous twelve months, adjusted as appropriate for recent changes in redemption costs, including changes related to the mix of rewards redeemed, to estimate future redemption costs. We continually evaluate our reserve and assumptions based on developments in redemption patterns, changes to the terms and conditions of the rewards program and other factors. While the rewards liability is sensitive to changes in assumptions for redemption rates and costs and involves management judgment, we believe portfolio characteristics and historical performance are the best indication of future reward redemption behavior and are the primary basis for our estimate. We recognized customer rewards expense of $6.4 billion in 2021 and $4.9 billion in both 2020 and 2019. Our customer rewards reserve, which is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, totaled $6.2 billion and $5.4 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Accounting Standards Issued but Not Adopted as of December 31, 2021 There were no relevant new accounting standards issued but not adopted as of December 31, 2021 See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on the accounting standards we adopted in 2021. The level and composition of our capital are determined by multiple factors, including our consolidated regulatory capital requirements as described in more detail below and internal risk-based capital assessments such as internal stress testing and economic capital. The level and composition of our capital may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, business environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses due to adverse changes in our business and market environments. Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action The Company and the Banks are subject to the regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC respectively (the “Basel III Capital Rules”). The Basel III Capital Rules implement certain capital requirements published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel Committee”), along with certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions. Following amendments to the Basel III Capital Rules in October 2019 to provide for tailored application of certain capital requirements across different categories of banking institutions (the “Tailoring Rules”), the Company, as a BHC with total consolidated assets of at least $250 billion but less than $700 billion and not exceeding any of the applicable risk-based thresholds, is a Category III institution. The Banks, as subsidiaries of a Category III institution, are Category III banks. Moreover, the Banks, as insured depository institutions, are subject to PCA  capital regulations. Basel III and United States Capital Rules Under the Basel III Capital Rules, we must maintain a minimum CET1 capital ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a total capital ratio of 8.0%, in each case in relation to risk-weighted assets. In addition, we must maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0% and a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3.0%. We are also subject to the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer requirements, as described below. As a Category III institution, effective January 1, 2020, we are no longer subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework and certain associated capital requirements, and we have elected to exclude certain elements of AOCI from our regulatory capital as permitted for a Category III institution. We remain subject to the countercyclical capital buffer requirement (which is currently set at 0%) and supplementary leverage ratio requirement of 3.0%. G-SIBs that are based in the U.S. are subject to an additional CET1 capital requirement known as the “G-SIB Surcharge.” We are not a G-SIB based on the most recent available data and thus we are not subject to a G-SIB Surcharge. Stress Capital Buffer Rule The Basel III Capital Rules require banking institutions to maintain a capital conservation buffer, composed of CET1 capital, above the regulatory minimum ratios. In March 2020, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to implement the stress capital buffer requirement (the “Stress Capital Buffer Rule”). The stress capital buffer requirement is institution-specific and replaces the fixed 2.5% capital conservation buffer previously in place for BHCs. Pursuant to the Stress Capital Buffer Rule, the Federal Reserve uses the results of its supervisory stress test to determine the size of a BHC’s stress capital buffer requirement. In particular, a BHC’s stress capital buffer requirement equals, subject to a floor of 2.5%, the sum of (i) the difference between the BHC’s starting CET1 capital ratio and its lowest projected CET1 capital ratio under the severely adverse scenario of the Federal Reserve’s supervisory stress test plus (ii) the ratio of the BHC’s projected four quarters of common stock dividends (for the fourth to seventh quarters of the planning horizon) to the projected risk-weighted assets for the quarter in which the BHC’s projected CET1 capital ratio reaches its minimum under the supervisory stress test. Under the Stress Capital Buffer Rule framework, the Company’s “standardized approach capital conservation buffer” includes its stress capital buffer requirement (which will be recalibrated every year based on the Company’s supervisory stress test results), any G-SIB Surcharge (which is not applicable to us) and the countercyclical capital buffer requirement (which is currently set at 0%). Any determination to increase the countercyclical capital buffer generally would be effective twelve months after the announcement of such an increase, unless the Federal Banking Agencies, set an earlier effective date. Based on the Company’s 2020 supervisory stress testing results, the Company’s stress capital buffer requirement was 5.6% for the period from October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021. Therefore, the Company’s minimum capital requirements plus the standardized approach capital conservation buffer for CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios under the stress capital buffer framework were 10.1%, 11.6% and 13.6%, respectively, for the period from October 1, 2020 through September 30, 2021. Based on the Company’s 2021 supervisory stress testing results, the Company’s stress capital buffer requirement for the period beginning on October 1, 2021 through September 30, 2022 is 2.5%. Therefore, the Company’s minimum capital requirements plus the standardized approach capital conservation buffer for CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios under the stress capital buffer framework are 7.0%, 8.5% and 10.5%, respectively, for the period from October 1, 2021 through September 30, 2022. The Stress Capital Buffer Rule does not apply to the Banks. The capital conservation buffer for the Banks continues to be fixed at 2.5%. Accordingly, each Bank’s minimum capital requirements plus its capital conservation buffer for CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios are 7.0%, 8.5% and 10.5% respectively. If the Company or any of the Banks fails to maintain its capital ratios above the minimum capital requirements plus the applicable capital conservation buffer requirements, it will face increasingly strict automatic limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to certain executive officers. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, each of the Company and the Banks exceeded the minimum capital requirements and the capital conservation buffer requirements applicable to them, and each of the Company and the Banks was “well-capitalized.” The “well-capitalized” standards applicable to the Company are established in the Federal Reserve’s regulations, and the “well-capitalized” standards applicable to the Banks are established in the OCC’s PCA capital requirements. Market Risk Rule The “Market Risk Rule” supplements the Basel III Capital Rules by requiring institutions subject to the rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading book. The Market Risk Rule generally applies to institutions with aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to 10% or more of total assets or $1 billion or more. As of December 31, 2021, the Company and CONA are subject to the Market Risk Rule . See “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” below for additional information. CECL Transition Rule The Federal Banking Agencies adopted a final rule (the “CECL Transition Rule”) that provides banking institutions an optional five-year transition period to phase in the impact of the current expected credit loss (“CECL”) standard on their regulatory capital (the “CECL Transition Election”). We adopted the CECL standard (for accounting purposes) as of January 1, 2020, and made the CECL Transition Election (for regulatory capital purposes) in the first quarter of 2020. Therefore, the applicable amounts presented in this Report reflect such election. Pursuant to the CECL Transition Rule, a banking institution could elect to delay the estimated impact of adopting CECL on its regulatory capital through December 31, 2021 and then phase in the estimated cumulative impact from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024. For the “day 2” ongoing impact of CECL during the initial two years, the Federal Banking Agencies used a uniform “scaling factor” of 25% as an approximation of the increase in the allowance under the CECL standard compared to the prior incurred loss methodology. Accordingly, from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021, electing banking institutions were permitted to add back to their regulatory capital an amount equal to the sum of the after-tax “day 1” CECL adoption impact and 25% of the increase in the allowance since the adoption of the CECL standard. From January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024, the after-tax “day 1” CECL adoption impact and the cumulative “day 2” ongoing impact are being phased in to regulatory capital at 25% per year. The following table summarizes the capital impact delay and phase in period on our regulatory capital from years 2020 to 2025. As of December 31, 2021, we added back an aggregate amount of $2.4 billion, after taxes, to our regulatory capital pursuant to the CECL Transition Rule. The Company’s CET1 capital ratio, reflecting the CECL Transition Rule, was 13.1% as of December 31, 2021, and would have been 12.4% excluding the impact of the CECL Transition Rule (or "on a fully phased-in basis"). Expiration of the Temporary Exclusions for Supplementary Leverage Ratio In April 2020, as part of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that temporarily excluded U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the calculation of the supplementary leverage ratio for BHCs. These temporary exclusions remained in effect through March 31, 2021 and expired as scheduled thereafter. The Company’s supplementary leverage ratio as of December 31, 2020, as presented in Table 12 of this Report, reflected these temporary exclusions. In May 2020, the Federal Banking Agencies issued an interim final rule that provided an option for depository institutions to make similar exclusions to the calculation of the supplementary leverage ratio. An electing depository institution would have been required to request prior approval from its primary federal banking regulator before making any capital distributions for as long as the exclusions were in effect. These temporary exclusions remained in effect for electing institutions through March 31, 2021 and expired as scheduled thereafter. Neither CONA nor COBNA elected to make such exclusions. For the description of the regulatory capital rules to which we are subject, see “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation”. Table 12 provides a comparison of our regulatory capital ratios under the Basel III Standardized Approach, the regulatory minimum capital adequacy ratios and the applicable well-capitalized standards as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 12: Capital Ratios Under Basel III (1) __________ (1) Capital requirements that are not applicable are denoted by “N/A.” (2) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on common equity Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. (3) Tier 1 capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. (4) Total capital ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on total capital divided by risk-weighted assets. (5) Tier 1 leverage ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets. (6) Supplementary leverage ratio is a regulatory capital measure calculated based on Tier 1 capital divided by total leverage exposure. (7) The Company’s supplementary leverage ratio as of December 31, 2020 reflected the temporary exclusions of U.S. Treasury securities and deposits with the Reserve Banks from the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio, pursuant to an interim final rule issued by the Federal Reserve. For more information see “Part II—Item 7. Capital Management—Capital Standards and Prompt Corrective Action”. Table 13 presents regulatory capital under the Basel III Standardized Approach and regulatory capital metrics as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 13: Regulatory Risk-Based Capital Components and Regulatory Capital Metrics __________ (1) Excludes certain components of AOCI as permitted under the Tailoring Rules. (2) Includes deferred tax assets deducted from regulatory capital. Capital Planning and Regulatory Stress Testing In response to economic uncertainty due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve on June 25, 2020 required certain large BHCs, including the Company, to suspend share repurchases and cap common stock dividends. The Federal Reserve subsequently extended these temporary capital distribution restrictions into the first half of 2021 with certain modifications to permit resumptions of share repurchases. On June 24, 2021, the Federal Reserve released the results of its supervisory stress tests for the 2021 cycle. Based on the results, all participating BHCs, including the Company, remained above their risk-based minimum capital requirements in the hypothetical stress scenario. Accordingly, as laid out previously by the Federal Reserve, the temporary capital distribution restrictions as described above ended for all participating BHCs, including the Company, after the second quarter of 2021. All participating BHCs, including the Company, remain subject to the normal capital distribution restrictions of the stress capital buffer framework. On January 25, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $7.5 billion of shares of our common stock. We repurchased approximately $2.6 billion of shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2021 to complete this authorization. On January 21, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of shares of our common stock. On July 28, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized a special dividend of $0.60 per share of common stock payable in the third quarter of 2021. In addition to the special dividend, the Board of Directors authorized an increase to our quarterly common stock dividend from $0.40 per share to $0.60 per share beginning with our dividend payable in the third quarter of 2021. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we declared and paid common stock dividends of $1.2 billion, or $2.60 per share. For the description of the regulatory capital planning rules to which we are subject, see “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation”. Equity Offerings and Transactions On May 4, 2021, we issued 27,000,000 depositary shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $25 per depositary share (“Series L Preferred Stock”). The net proceeds of the offering of Series L Preferred Stock were approximately $653 million after deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses. Dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock are payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 4.375% per annum. On June 10, 2021, we issued 1,000,000 shares of Fixed Rate Reset Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series M, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (“Series M Preferred Stock”). The net proceeds of the offering of Series M Preferred Stock were approximately $988 million, after deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses. Dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock are payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 3.950% per annum through August 31, 2026. Effective September 1, 2026, and at every subsequent five-year anniversary, the dividend rate resets to the 5-year treasury rate plus 3.157% per annum. On July 29, 2021, we issued 17,000,000 depositary shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Fixed Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N, $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $25 per depositary share (“Series N Preferred Stock”). The net proceeds of the offering of Series N Preferred Stock were approximately $412 million after deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses. Dividends on the Series N Preferred Stock are payable quarterly in arrears at a rate of 4.25% per annum. On September 1, 2021, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E for $1.0 billion. The redemption reduced our net income available to common stockholders by $12 million in the third quarter of 2021 as we recognized the previously deferred issuance costs associated with this series. On December 1, 2021, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our Fixed Rate 5.20% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G, and our Fixed Rate 6.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, for an aggregate redemption price of $1.1 billion. The redemption reduced our net income available to common stockholders by $34 million in the fourth quarter of 2021 as we recognized the previously deferred issuance costs associated with these series. Dividend Policy and Stock Purchases For the year ended December 31, 2021, we declared and paid common stock dividends of $1.2 billion, or $2.60 per share, and preferred stock dividends of $274 million. The following table summarizes the dividends paid per share on our various preferred stock series in each quarter of 2021. Table 14: Preferred Stock Dividends Paid Per Share __________ (1) On September 1, 2021, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our preferred stock Series E. (2) On December 1, 2021, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our preferred stock Series G and H. The declaration and payment of dividends to our stockholders, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. As a BHC, our ability to pay dividends is largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our subsidiaries. The Banks are subject to regulatory restrictions that limit their ability to transfer funds to our BHC. As of December 31, 2021, funds available for dividend payments from COBNA and CONA were $531 million and $447 million, respectively. There can be no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends to stockholders. On January 25, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $7.5 billion of shares of our common stock. We repurchased approximately $2.6 billion of shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter of 2021 to complete this authorization. On January 21, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of shares of our common stock. The timing and exact amount of any future common stock repurchases will depend on various factors, including regulatory approval, market conditions, opportunities for growth, our capital position and the amount of retained earnings. Our stock repurchase program does not include specific price targets, may be executed through open market purchases, tender offers, or privately negotiated transactions, including utilizing Rule 10b5-1 programs, and may be suspended at any time. For additional information on dividends and stock repurchases, see “MD&A—Capital Management—Capital Planning and Regulatory Stress Testing” and “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation—Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds”. Risk Management Framework Our Risk Management Framework (the “Framework”) sets consistent expectations for risk management across the Company. It also sets expectations for our “Three Lines of Defense” model, which defines the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for taking and managing risk across the Company. Accountability for overseeing an effective Framework resides with our Board of Directors either directly or through its committees. The “First Line of Defense” consists of any line of business or function that is accountable for risk taking and is responsible for: (i) engaging in activities designed to generate revenue or reduce expenses; (ii) providing operational support or servicing to any business function for the delivery of products or services to customers; or (iii) providing technology services in direct support of first line business areas. Each line of business or first line function must manage the risks associated with their activities, including identifying, assessing, measuring, monitoring, controlling, and reporting the risks within its business activities, consistent with the risk framework. The “Second Line of Defense” consists of two types of functions: Independent Risk Management (“IRM”) and Support Functions. IRM oversees risk-taking activities and assesses risks and issues independent from the first line of defense. Support Functions are centers of specialized expertise (e.g., Human Resources, Accounting, Legal) that provide support services to the Company. The “Third Line of Defense” is comprised of the Internal Audit and Credit Review functions. The third line provides independent and objective assurance to senior management and to the Board of Directors that the first and second lines of defense have systems and governance processes which are well-designed and working as intended, and that the Framework is appropriate for our size, complexity and risk profile. Our Framework consists of the following nine elements: Governance and Accountability This element of the Framework sets the foundation for the methods for governing risk taking and the interactions within and among our three lines of defense. We established a risk governance structure and accountabilities to effectively and consistently oversee the management of risks across the Company. Our Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and management establish the tone at the top regarding the culture of the Company, including management of risk. Management reinforces expectations at the various levels of the organization. Strategy and Risk Alignment Our strategy is informed by and aligned with risk appetite, from development to execution. The Chief Executive Officer develops the strategy with input from the first, second, and third lines of defense, as well as the Board of Directors. The strategic planning process should consider relevant changes to the Company’s overall risk profile. Our Board of Directors approves a Risk Appetite Statement for the Company to set forth the high-level principles that govern risk taking at the Company. The Risk Appetite Statement defines the Board of Directors’ tolerance for certain risk outcomes at an enterprise level and enables senior management to manage and report within these boundaries. This Risk Appetite Statement is also supported by risk category specific risk appetite statements as well as metrics and, where appropriate, Board Limits and Board Notification Thresholds. Risk Identification The first line of defense and certain Support Functions shall identify new and emerging risks across the relevant risk categories associated with their business activities and objectives, in consultation with IRM. Risk identification also must be informed by major changes in infrastructure or organization, introduction of new products and services, acquisitions of businesses, or substantial changes in the internal or external environment. IRM and certain Support Functions, where appropriate, provide effective challenge in the risk identification process. IRM is also responsible for identifying our material aggregate risks on an ongoing basis. Assessment, Measurement and Response Management shall assess risks associated with our activities. Risks identified should be assessed to understand the severity of each risk and likelihood of occurrence under both normal and stressful conditions. Risk severity is measured through modeling and other quantitative estimation approaches, as well as qualitative approaches, based on management judgment. As part of the risk assessment process, the first and second lines of defense also evaluate the effectiveness of the existing control environment and mitigation strategies. Management shall determine the appropriate risk response. Risks may be mitigated, accepted, transferred, or avoided. Actions taken to respond to the risk include implementing new controls, enhancing existing controls, developing additional mitigation strategies to reduce the impact of the risk, and/or monitoring the risk. Monitoring and Testing Management periodically monitors risks to evaluate and measure how the risk is affecting our strategy and business objectives, in alignment with risk appetite, including established concentration risk limits. The scope and frequency of monitoring activities depends on the results of relevant risk assessments, as well as specific business risk operations and activities. The first line of defense is required to evaluate the effectiveness of risk management practices and controls through testing and other activities. IRM and Support Functions, as appropriate, assess the first line of defense’s evaluation of risk management, which may include conducting effective challenge, performing independent monitoring, or conducting risk or control validations. The third line of defense provides independent assurance for first and second line risk management practices and controls. Aggregation, Reporting and Escalation Risk aggregation supports strategic decision making and risk management practices through collectively reporting risks across different levels of the Company and providing a comprehensive view of performance against risk appetite. Capital One’s risk aggregation processes are designed to aggregate risk information from lower levels of the business hierarchy to high levels and to aggregate risk information to determine material risk themes. Material risks, new or emerging risks, aggregate risks, risk appetite metrics and other measures across all risk categories are reported to the appropriate governance forum no less than quarterly. Material risks are reported to the Board of Directors and senior management committees no less than quarterly. Capital and Liquidity Management (including Stress Testing) Our capital management processes are linked to its risk management practices, including the enterprise-wide identification, assessment and measurement of risks to ensure that all relevant risks are incorporated in the assessment of the Company's capital adequacy. We use identified risks to inform key aspects of the Company’s capital planning, including the development of stress scenarios, the assessment of the adequacy of post-stress capital levels, and the appropriateness of potential capital actions considering the Company’s capital objectives. We quantify capital needs through stress testing, regulatory capital, economic capital and assessments of market considerations. In assessing its capital adequacy, we identify how and where our material risks are accounted for within the capital planning process. Monitoring and escalation processes exist for key capital thresholds and metrics to continuously monitor capital adequacy. We manage liquidity risk by applying our Liquidity Adequacy Framework (the “Liquidity Framework”). The Liquidity Framework uses internal and regulatory stress testing and the evaluation of other balance sheet metrics to confirm that we maintain a fortified balance sheet that is resilient to uncertainties that may arise as a consequence of systemic, idiosyncratic, or combined liquidity events. Risk Data and Enabling Technology Risk data and technology provides the basis for risk reporting and is used in decision making and to monitor and review changes to our risk profile. There is a core Governance, Risk Management and Compliance system which is used as the system of record for risks, controls, issues and events for our risk categories and supports the analysis, aggregation and reporting capabilities across the categories. Culture and Talent Management The Framework must be supported with the right culture, talent and skills to enable effective risk management across the Company. Every associate at the Company is responsible for risk management; however, associates with specific risk management skills and expertise within the first, second and third lines of defense are critical to execute appropriate risk management across the enterprise. Risk Categories We apply our Framework to protect the Company from the major categories of risk that we are exposed to through our business activities. Our seven major categories of risk are: We provide an overview of how we manage our seven major categories of risk below. Compliance Risk Management We recognize that compliance requirements for financial institutions are increasingly complex and that there are heightened expectations from our regulators and our customers. In response, we continuously evaluate the regulatory environment and proactively adjust our compliance program to fully address these expectations. Our Compliance Management Program establishes expectations for determining compliance requirements, assessing the risk of new product offerings, creating appropriate controls and training to address requirements, monitoring for control performance, and independently testing for adherence to compliance requirements. The program also establishes regular compliance reporting to senior business leaders, the executive committee and the Board of Directors. The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for establishing and overseeing our Compliance Management Program. Business areas incorporate compliance requirements and controls into their business policies, standards, processes and procedures. They regularly monitor and report on the efficacy of their compliance controls and our Corporate Compliance team periodically independently tests to validate the effectiveness of business controls. Credit Risk Management We recognize that we are exposed to cyclical changes in credit quality. Consequently, we try to ensure our credit portfolio is resilient to economic downturns. Our most important tool in this endeavor is sound underwriting. In unsecured consumer loan underwriting, we generally assume that loans will be subject to an environment in which losses are higher than those prevailing at the time of underwriting. In commercial underwriting, we generally require strong cash flow, collateral, covenants, and guarantees. In addition to sound underwriting, we closely monitor our portfolio and take steps to collect or work out distressed loans. The Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction with the Consumer and Commercial Chief Credit Officers, is responsible for establishing credit risk policies and procedures, including underwriting and hold guidelines and credit approval authority, and monitoring credit exposure and performance of our lending related transactions. Our Consumer and Commercial Chief Credit Officers are responsible for evaluating the risk implications of credit strategy and the oversight of credit for both the existing portfolio and any new credit investments. They also have formal approval authority for various types and levels of credit decisions, including individual commercial loan transactions. Division Presidents within each segment are responsible for managing the credit risk within their divisions and maintaining processes to control credit risk and comply with credit policies and guidelines. In addition, the Chief Risk Officer establishes policies, delegates approval authority and monitors performance for non-loan credit exposure entered into with financial counterparties or through the purchase of credit sensitive securities in our investment portfolio. Our credit policies establish standards in five areas: customer selection, underwriting, monitoring, remediation and portfolio management. The standards in each area provide a framework comprising specific objectives and control processes. These standards are supported by detailed policies and procedures for each component of the credit process. Starting with customer selection, our goal is to generally provide credit on terms that generate above hurdle returns. We use a number of quantitative and qualitative factors to manage credit risk, including setting credit risk limits and guidelines for each of our lines of business. We monitor performance relative to these guidelines and report results and any required mitigating actions to appropriate senior management committees and our Board of Directors. Liquidity Risk Management We manage liquidity risk by applying our Liquidity Framework. The Liquidity Framework uses internal and regulatory stress testing and the evaluation of other balance sheet metrics to confirm that we maintain a fortified balance sheet that is resilient to uncertainties that may arise as a consequence of systemic, idiosyncratic, or combined liquidity events. We continuously monitor market and economic conditions to evaluate emerging stress conditions and to develop appropriate action plans in accordance with our Contingency Funding Plan and our Recovery Plans, which include the Company’s policies, procedures and action plans for managing liquidity stress events. The Liquidity Framework enables us to manage our liquidity risk in accordance with regulatory requirements. Additionally, the Liquidity Framework establishes governing principles that apply to the management of liquidity risk. We use these principles to monitor, measure and report liquidity risk; to develop funding and investment strategies that enable us to maintain an adequate level of liquidity to support our businesses and satisfy regulatory requirements; and to protect us from a broad range of liquidity events should they arise. The Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction with the Chief Market and Liquidity Risk Officer, is responsible for the establishment of liquidity risk management policies and standards for governance and monitoring of liquidity risk at a corporate level. We assess liquidity strength by evaluating several different balance sheet metrics under severe stress scenarios to ensure we can withstand significant funding degradation through systemic, idiosyncratic, and combined liquidity stress scenarios. Management reports liquidity metrics to appropriate senior management committees no less than quarterly and to our Board of Directors no less than semi-annually. We seek to mitigate liquidity risk strategically and tactically. From a strategic perspective, we have acquired and built deposit gathering businesses and actively monitor our funding concentration. From a tactical perspective, we have accumulated a sizable liquidity reserve comprised of cash and cash equivalents, high-quality, unencumbered securities and committed collateralized credit lines. We also continue to maintain access to secured and unsecured debt markets through regular issuance. This combination of stable and diversified funding sources and our stockpile of liquidity reserves enable us to maintain confidence in our liquidity position. Market Risk Management The Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Risk Officer are responsible for the establishment of market risk management policies and standards for the governance and monitoring of market risk at a corporate level. Market risk is inherent from the financial instruments associated with our business operations and activities including loans, deposits, securities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and derivatives. We manage market risk exposure, which is principally driven by balance sheet interest rate risk, centrally and establish quantitative risk limits to monitor and control our exposure. We recognize that interest rate and foreign exchange risk is present in our business due to the nature of our assets and liabilities. Banks typically manage the trade-off between near-term earnings volatility and market value volatility by targeting moderate levels of each. In addition to using industry accepted techniques to analyze and measure interest rate and foreign exchange risk, we perform sensitivity analysis to identify our risk exposures under a broad range of scenarios. Investment securities and derivatives are the main levers for the management of interest rate risk. In addition, we also use derivatives to manage our foreign exchange risk. The market risk positions for the Company and each of the Banks are calculated separately and in aggregate, and analyzed against pre-established limits. Results are reported to the Asset Liability Committee monthly and to the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors no less than quarterly. Management is authorized to utilize financial instruments as outlined in our policy to actively manage market risk exposure. Operational Risk Management We recognize the criticality of managing operational risk on both a strategic and day-to-day basis and that there are heightened expectations from our regulators and our customers. We have implemented appropriate operational risk management policies, standards, processes and controls to enable the delivery of high quality and consistent customer experiences and to achieve business objectives in a controlled manner. The Chief Operational Risk Officer is responsible for establishing and overseeing our Operational Risk Management Program. In accordance with Basel III Advanced Approaches requirements, the program establishes practices for assessing the operational risk profile and executing key control processes for operational risks. These risks include topics such as internal and external fraud, cyber and technology risk, data management, model risk, third party management, and business continuity. Operational Risk Management enforces these practices and delivers reporting of operational risk results to senior business leaders, the executive committee and the Board of Directors. Reputation Risk Management We recognize that reputation risk is of particular concern for financial institutions and, increasingly, technology companies, in the current environment. Areas of concern have expanded to include company policies, practices and values and, with the growing use of social and digital platforms, public corporations face a new level of scrutiny and channels for activism and advocacy. The heightened expectations of internal and external stakeholders have made corporate culture, values and conduct pressure points for individuals and advocates voicing concerns or seeking change. We manage both strategic and tactical reputation issues and build our relationships with government officials, media, community and consumer advocates, customers and other constituencies to help strengthen the reputations of both our Company and industry. Our actions include implementing pro-customer practices in our business and serving low to moderate income communities in our market area consistent with a quality bank and an innovative technology leader. The Executive Vice President of External Affairs is responsible for managing our overall reputation risk program. Day-to-day activities are controlled by the frameworks set forth in our Reputation Risk Management Policy and other risk management policies. Strategic Risk Management We monitor external market and industry developments to identify potential areas of strategic opportunity or risk. These items provide input for development of the Company’s strategy led by the Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives. Through the ongoing development and vetting of the corporate strategy, the Chief Risk Officer identifies and assesses risks associated with the strategy across all risk categories and monitors them throughout the year. Our loan portfolio accounts for the substantial majority of our credit risk exposure. Our lending activities are governed under our credit policy and are subject to independent review and approval. Below we provide information about the composition of our loan portfolio, key concentrations and credit performance metrics. We also engage in certain non-lending activities that may give rise to ongoing credit and counterparty settlement risk, including purchasing securities for our investment securities portfolio, entering into derivative transactions to manage our market risk exposure and to accommodate customers, extending short-term advances on syndication activity including bridge financing transactions we have underwritten, depositing certain operational cash balances in other financial institutions, executing certain foreign exchange transactions and extending customer overdrafts. We provide additional information related to our investment securities portfolio under “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Investment Securities” and credit risk related to derivative transactions in “Note 9—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” Primary Loan Products We provide a variety of lending products. Our primary loan products include credit cards, auto loans and commercial lending products. • Credit cards: We originate both prime and subprime credit cards through a variety of channels. Our credit cards generally have variable interest rates. Credit card accounts are primarily underwritten using an automated underwriting system based on predictive models that we have developed. The underwriting criteria, which are customized for individual products and marketing programs, are established based on an analysis of the net present value of expected revenues, expenses and losses, subject to further analysis using a variety of stress conditions. Underwriting decisions are generally based on credit bureau information, including payment history, debt burden and credit scores, such as FICO scores, and on other factors, such as applicant income. We maintain a credit card securitization program and selectively sell charged-off credit card loans. • Auto: We originate both prime and subprime auto loans through a network of auto dealers and direct marketing. Our auto loans generally have fixed interest rates and loan terms of 75 months or less, but can go up to 84 months. Loan size limits are customized by program and are generally less than $75,000. Similar to credit card accounts, the underwriting criteria are customized for individual products and marketing programs and based on analysis of net present value of expected revenues, expenses and losses, and are subject to maintaining resilience under a variety of stress conditions. Underwriting decisions are generally based on an applicant’s income, estimated net disposable income, and credit bureau information including FICO scores, along with collateral characteristics such as loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio. We maintain an auto securitization program. • Commercial: We offer a range of commercial lending products, including loans secured by commercial real estate and loans to middle market commercial and industrial companies. Our commercial loans may have a fixed or variable interest rate; however, the majority of our commercial loans have variable rates. Our underwriting standards require an analysis of the borrower’s financial condition and prospects, as well as an assessment of the industry in which the borrower operates. Where relevant, we evaluate and appraise underlying collateral and guarantees. We maintain underwriting guidelines and limits for major types of borrowers and loan products that specify, where applicable, guidelines for debt service coverage, leverage, LTV ratio and standard covenants and conditions. We assign a risk rating and establish a monitoring schedule for loans based on the risk profile of the borrower, industry segment, source of repayment, the underlying collateral and guarantees, if any, and current market conditions. Although we generally retain the commercial loans we underwrite, we may syndicate positions for risk mitigation purposes, including bridge financing transactions we have underwritten. In addition, we originate and service multifamily commercial real estate loans which are sold to government-sponsored enterprises. Portfolio Composition and Maturity Profile of Loans Held for Investment Our loan portfolio consists of loans held for investment, including loans held in our consolidated trusts, and loans held for sale. The information presented in this section excludes loans held for sale, which totaled $5.9 billion and $2.7 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Table 15 presents the composition of our portfolio of loans held for investment by portfolio segment as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 15: Portfolio Composition of Loans Held for Investment __________ (1) Include PPP loans of $232 million and $102 million in our retail and commercial loan portfolios, respectively, as of December 31, 2021 and $919 million and $238 million as of December 31, 2020, respectively. Table 16 presents the maturities of our loans held for investment portfolio as of December 31, 2021. Table 16: Loan Maturity Schedule __________ (1) Due to the revolving nature of credit card loans, we report the majority of our variable-rate credit card loans as due in one year or less. We report fixed-rate credit card loans with introductory rates that expire after a certain period of time as due in one year or less. We assume that the rest of our remaining fixed-rate credit card loans will mature within one to three years. Geographic Composition We market our credit card products throughout the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom. Our credit card loan portfolio is geographically diversified due to our product and marketing approach. The table below presents the geographic profile of our credit card loan portfolio as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 17: Credit Card Portfolio by Geographic Region Our auto loan portfolio is geographically diversified in the United States due to our product and marketing approach. Retail banking includes small business loans and other consumer lending products originated through our branch network. The table below presents the geographic profile of our auto loan and retail banking portfolios as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 18: Consumer Banking Portfolio by Geographic Region We originate commercial and multifamily real estate loans in most regions of the United States. The table below presents the geographic profile of our commercial real estate portfolio of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 19: Commercial Real Estate Portfolio by Region __________ (1) Geographic concentration is generally determined by the location of the borrower’s business or the location of the collateral associated with the loan. Northeast consists of CT, MA, ME, NH, NJ, NY, PA, RI and VT. South consists of AL, AR, FL, GA, KY, LA, MS, NC, OK, SC, TN and TX. Pacific West consists of: AK, CA, HI, OR and WA. Mid-Atlantic consists of DC, DE, MD, VA and WV. Midwest consists of: IA, IL, IN, KS, MI, MN, MO, ND, NE, OH, SD and WI. Mountain consists of: AZ, CO, ID, MT, NM, NV, UT and WY. Commercial Loans by Industry Table 20 summarizes our commercial loans held for investment portfolio by industry classification as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Industry classifications below are based on our interpretation of the North American Industry Classification System codes as they pertain to each individual loan. Table 20: Commercial Loans by Industry Credit Risk Measurement We closely monitor economic conditions and loan performance trends to assess and manage our exposure to credit risk. Trends in delinquency rates are the key credit quality indicator for our credit card and retail banking loan portfolios as changes in delinquency rates can provide an early warning of changes in potential future credit losses. The key indicator we monitor when assessing the credit quality and risk of our auto loan portfolio is borrower credit scores as they provide insight into borrower risk profiles, which give indications of potential future credit losses. The key credit quality indicator for our commercial loan portfolios is our internal risk ratings as we generally classify loans that have been delinquent for an extended period of time and other loans with significant risk of loss as nonperforming. In addition to these credit quality indicators, we also manage and monitor other credit quality metrics such as level of nonperforming loans and net charge-off rates. We underwrite most consumer loans using proprietary models, which typically include credit bureau data, such as borrower credit scores, application information and, where applicable, collateral and deal structure data. We continuously adjust our management of credit lines and collection strategies based on customer behavior and risk profile changes. We also use borrower credit scores for subprime classification, for competitive benchmarking and, in some cases, to drive product segmentation decisions. Table 21 provides details on the credit scores of our domestic credit card and auto loan portfolios as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 21: Credit Score Distribution __________ (1) Percentages represent period-end loans held for investment in each credit score category. Domestic card credit scores generally represent FICO scores. These scores are obtained from one of the major credit bureaus at origination and are refreshed monthly thereafter. We approximate non-FICO credit scores to comparable FICO scores for consistency purposes. Balances for which no credit score is available or the credit score is invalid are included in the 660 or below category. (2) Percentages represent period-end loans held for investment in each credit score category. Auto credit scores generally represent average FICO scores obtained from three credit bureaus at the time of application and are not refreshed thereafter. Balances for which no credit score is available or the credit score is invalid are included in the 620 or below category. We present information in the section below on the credit performance of our loan portfolio, including the key metrics we use in tracking changes in the credit quality of our loan portfolio. See “Note 3—Loans” for additional credit quality information and see “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our accounting policies for delinquent and nonperforming loans, charge-offs and TDRs for each of our loan categories. Delinquency Rates We consider the entire balance of an account to be delinquent if the minimum required payment is not received by the customer’s due date, measured at each balance sheet date. Our 30+ day delinquency metrics include all loans held for investment that are 30 or more days past due, whereas our 30+ day performing delinquency metrics include all loans held for investment that are 30 or more days past due but are currently classified as performing and accruing interest. The 30+ day delinquency and 30+ day performing delinquency metrics are the same for domestic credit card loans, as we continue to classify these loans as performing until the account is charged off, typically when the account is 180 days past due. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our policies for classifying loans as nonperforming for each of our loan categories. We provide additional information on our credit quality metrics in “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance.” Table 22 presents our 30+ day performing delinquency rates and 30+ day delinquency rates of our portfolio of loans held for investment, by portfolio segment, as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 22: 30+ Day Delinquencies __________ (1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by period-end loans held for investment for each specified loan category. Table 23 presents our 30+ day delinquent loans, by aging and geography, as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 23: Aging and Geography of 30+ Day Delinquent Loans __________ (1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by total period-end loans held for investment. Table 24 summarizes loans that were 90+ days delinquent as to interest or principal, and still accruing interest as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. These loans consist primarily of credit card accounts between 90 days and 179 days past due. As permitted by regulatory guidance issued by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, we continue to accrue interest and fees on domestic credit card loans through the date of charge off, which is typically in the period the account becomes 180 days past due. Table 24: 90+ Day Delinquent Loans Accruing Interest __________ (1) Delinquency rates are calculated by dividing delinquency amounts by period-end loans held for investment for each specified loan category. Nonperforming Loans and Nonperforming Assets Nonperforming assets consist of nonperforming loans, repossessed assets and other foreclosed assets. Nonperforming loans include loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our policies for classifying loans as nonperforming for each of our loan categories. Table 25 presents our nonperforming loans, by portfolio segment, and other nonperforming assets as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. We do not classify loans held for sale as nonperforming. We provide additional information on our credit quality metrics in “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance.” Table 25: Nonperforming Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets (1) __________ (1) We recognized interest income for loans classified as nonperforming of $43 million and $39 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Interest income foregone related to nonperforming loans was $51 million and $49 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Foregone interest income represents the amount of interest income in excess of recognized interest income that would have been recorded during the period for nonperforming loans as of the end of the period had the loans performed according to their contractual terms. (2) Nonperforming loan rates are calculated based on nonperforming loans for each category divided by period-end total loans held for investment for each respective category. (3) Excluding the impact of domestic credit card loans, nonperforming loans as a percentage of total loans held for investment was 0.65% as of both December 31, 2021 and 2020. (4) The denominators used in calculating nonperforming asset rates consist of total loans held for investment and other nonperforming assets. Net Charge-Offs Net charge-offs consist of the amortized cost basis, excluding accrued interest, of loans held for investment that we determine to be uncollectible, net of recovered amounts. We charge off loans as a reduction to the allowance for credit losses when we determine the loan is uncollectible and record subsequent recoveries of previously charged off amounts as increases to the allowance for credit losses. Uncollectible finance charges and fees are reversed through revenue and certain fraud losses are recorded in other non-interest expense. Generally, costs to recover charged off loans are recorded as collection expenses as incurred and are included in our consolidated statements of income as a component of other non-interest expense. Our charge-off policy for loans varies based on the loan type. See “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” for information on our charge-off policy for each of our loan categories. Table 26 presents our net charge-off amounts and rates, by portfolio segment, in 2021, 2020 and 2019. Table 26: Net Charge-Offs (Recoveries) __________ (1) Net charge-off (recovery) rates are calculated by dividing annualized net charge-offs (recoveries) by average loans held for investment for the period for each loan category. Troubled Debt Restructurings As part of our loss mitigation efforts, we may provide short-term (three to twelve months) or long-term (greater than twelve months) modifications to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty to improve long-term collectability of the loan and to avoid the need for repossession or foreclosure of collateral. Guidance issued by the Federal Banking Agencies and contained in the CARES Act provided banking organizations with TDR relief for loan modifications to current borrowers impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The majority of enrollments in our COVID-19 programs would generally not have resulted in TDR classification under our existing policies as the concession granted was insignificant. We consider the impact of all loan modifications, including those classified as TDRs and those offered in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, when estimating the credit quality of our loan portfolio and establishing allowance levels. Table 27 presents our amortized cost of loans modified in TDRs as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, which excludes loan modifications that do not meet the definition of a TDR and loans that received relief under the guidance issued by the Federal Banking Agencies and contained in the CARES Act in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Table 27: Troubled Debt Restructurings In our Credit Card business, the majority of our credit card loans modified in TDRs involve reducing the interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months. The effective interest rate in effect immediately prior to the loan modification is used as the effective interest rate for purposes of measuring impairment using the present value of expected cash flows. If the customer does not comply with the modified payment terms, then the credit card loan agreement may revert to its original payment terms, generally resulting in any loan outstanding reflected in the appropriate delinquency category and charged off in accordance with our standard charge-off policy. In our Consumer Banking business, the majority of our loans modified in TDRs receive an extension, an interest rate reduction or principal reduction, or a combination of these concessions. In addition, TDRs also occur in connection with bankruptcy of the borrower. In certain bankruptcy discharges, the loan is written down to the collateral value and the charged off amount is reported as principal reduction. Impairment is determined using the present value of expected cash flows or a collateral evaluation for certain auto loans where the collateral value is lower than the amortized cost. In our Commercial Banking business, the majority of loans modified in TDRs receive an extension, with a portion of these loans receiving an interest rate reduction or a gross balance reduction. The impairment on modified commercial loans is generally determined based on the underlying collateral value. We provide additional information on modified loans accounted for as TDRs, including the performance of those loans subsequent to modification, in “Note 3—Loans.” Allowance for Credit Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments Our allowance for credit losses represents management’s current estimate of expected credit losses over the contractual terms of our loans held for investment as of each balance sheet date. Expected recoveries of amounts previously charged off or expected to be charged off are recognized within the allowance. We also estimate expected credit losses related to unfunded lending commitments that are not unconditionally cancellable. The provision for losses on unfunded lending commitments is included in the provision for credit losses in our consolidated statements of income and the related reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. We provide additional information on the methodologies and key assumptions used in determining our allowance for credit losses in “Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”. Table 28 presents changes in our allowance for credit losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments for 2021 and 2020, and details by portfolio segment for the provision for credit losses, charge-offs and recoveries. Table 28: Allowance for Credit Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments Activity __________ (1) Concurrent with our adoption of the CECL standard in the first quarter of 2020, we reclassified our finance charge and fee reserve to our allowance for credit losses, with a corresponding increase to credit card loans held for investment. (2) The amount and timing of recoveries are impacted by our collection strategies, which are based on customer behavior and risk profile and include direct customer communications, repossession of collateral, the periodic sale of charged off loans as well as additional strategies, such as litigation. (3) Represents foreign currency translation adjustments. (4) Represents foreign currency translation adjustments and an initial allowance for purchased credit-deteriorated loans of $6 million. Allowance coverage ratios are calculated based on the allowance for credit losses for each specified portfolio segment divided by period-end loans held for investment within the specified loan category, as defined below. Table 29 presents the allowance coverage ratios as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 29: Allowance Coverage Ratios for Specified Loan Category __________ (1) Represents period-end 30+ day delinquent loans for our credit card and consumer banking loan portfolios, nonperforming loans for our commercial banking loan portfolio and total loans held for investment for the total ratio. O ur allowance for credit losses decreased by $4.1 billion to $11.4 billion, and our allowance coverage ratio decreased by 207 basis points to 4.12% as of December 31, 2021 from 2020, driven by strong credit performance and an improved economic outlook. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses divided by total nonperforming loans held for investment of $1.1 billion and $995 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, decreased by 526% to 1,039% as of December 31, 2021 from 1,565% as of December 31, 2020. Excluding the impact of the allowance for credit losses related to Domestic Card of $8.0 billion and $10.7 billion as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, this ratio decreased by 179% to 315% as of December 31, 2021 from 494% as of December 31, 2020. The decrease in the ratio in both scenarios was driven by a decrease in our allowance for credit losses due to strong credit performance and improved economic outlook. We have established liquidity practices that are intended to ensure that we have sufficient asset-based liquidity to cover our funding requirements and maintain adequate reserves to withstand the potential impact of deposit attrition or diminished liquidity in the funding markets. In addition to our cash and cash equivalents, we maintain reserves in the form of investment securities and certain loans that are either readily-marketable or pledgeable. Table 30 below presents the composition of our liquidity reserves as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 30: Liquidity Reserves Our liquidity reserves decreased by $27.8 billion to $116.2 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by a decrease in cash and cash equivalents as excess cash was used, in part to fund loan growth. See “MD&A—Risk Management” for additional information on our management of liquidity risk. Liquidity Coverage Ratio We are subject to the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) standard as implemented by the Federal Reserve and OCC (the “LCR Rule”). The LCR Rule requires us to calculate our LCR daily. It also requires the Company to publicly disclose, on a quarterly basis, its LCR, certain related quantitative liquidity metrics, and a qualitative discussion of its LCR. Our average LCR during the fourth quarter of 2021 was 139% , which exceeded the LCR Rule requirement of 100%. The calculation and the underlying components are based on our interpretations, expectations and assumptions of relevant regulations, as well as interpretations provided by our regulators, and are subject to change based on changes to future regulations and interpretations. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. Net Stable Funding Ratio In October 2020, the Federal Banking Agencies finalized a rule to implement the NSFR in the United States (the “NSFR Rule”). The NSFR Rule requires the Company and each of the Banks to maintain an amount of available stable funding, which is a weighted measure of a company’s funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to equity and liabilities based on their expected stability, that is no less than a specified percentage of its required stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a Category III institution, the Company and the Banks are each required to maintain available stable funding in an amount at least equal to 85% of its required stable funding. The NSFR Rule became effective on July 1, 2021 and applies to the Company and each of the Banks. The NSFR Rule includes a semi-annual public disclosure requirement, with the first disclosure due 45 days after the end of the second quarter of 2023.  The Company and the Banks exceeded the NSFR Rule requirement as of December 31, 2021. Borrowing Capacity We maintain a shelf registration with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) so that we may periodically offer and sell an indeterminate aggregate amount of senior or subordinated debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock, purchase contracts, warrants and units. There is no limit under this shelf registration to the amount or number of such securities that we may offer and sell, subject to market conditions. In addition, we also maintain a shelf registration that allows us to periodically offer and sell up to $25 billion of securitized debt obligations from our credit card loan securitization trust and a shelf registration that allows us to periodically offer and sell up to $20 billion of securitized debt obligations from our auto loan securitization trusts. The registered amounts under these shelf registration statements are subject to continuing review and change in the future, including as part of the routine renewal process. In addition to our issuance capacity under the shelf registration statements, we also have access to FHLB advances, the Federal Reserve Discount Window and the Fixed Income Clearing Corporation’s general collateral financing repurchase agreement service. The ability to borrow utilizing these sources is based on membership status and the amount is dependent upon the Banks’ ability to post collateral. As of December 31, 2021, we pledged both loans and securities to the FHLB to secure a maximum borrowing capacity of $19.7 billion, of which $8 million was used. Our FHLB membership is supported by our investment in FHLB stock of $32 million and $30 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which was determined in part based on our outstanding advances. As of December 31, 2021, we pledged loans to secure a borrowing capacity of $19.6 billion under the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Our membership with the Federal Reserve is supported by our investment in Federal Reserve stock, which totaled $1.3 billion as of both December 31, 2021 and 2020. Deposits Table 31 provides a comparison of average balances, interest expense and average deposits interest rates for December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Table 31: Deposits Composition and Average Deposits Interest Rates __________ (1) Includes negotiable order of withdrawal accounts. (2) Includes money market deposit accounts. The FDIC limits the acceptance of brokered deposits to well-capitalized insured depository institutions and, with a waiver from the FDIC, to adequately-capitalized institutions. COBNA and CONA were well-capitalized, as defined under the federal banking regulatory guidelines, as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See “Part I—Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation” for additional information. We provide additional information on the composition of deposits in “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Funding Sources Composition” and in “Note 8—Deposits and Borrowings.” Funding Our primary source of funding comes from deposits, as they are a stable and relatively low cost source of funding. In addition to deposits, we raise funding through the issuance of senior and subordinated notes and securitized debt obligations, federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances secured by certain portions of our loan and securities portfolios. A key objective in our use of these markets is to maintain access to a diversified mix of wholesale funding sources. See “MD&A—Consolidated Balance Sheets Analysis—Funding Sources Composition” for additional information on our primary sources of funding. In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments that affect our short-term and long-term liquidity and capital resource needs. Our future cash outflows primarily relate to deposits, borrowings and operating leases. The actual timing and amounts of future cash payments may vary over time due to a number of factors, such as discretionary debt repurchases. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, excluding intercompany balances, we held approximately $91.7 billion and $79.0 billion of uninsured deposits primarily comprised of checking accounts and savings deposits. We estimate our uninsured amounts at the account level based on the same methodologies and assumptions used for our Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (FFIEC 031) filed with the Federal Banking Agencies. Table 32 presents, by contractual maturity, the amount of time deposits in excess of the FDIC insurance limit of $250,000 as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Our funding and liquidity management activities factor into the expected maturities of these deposits. Table 32: Amount of Time Deposits in Excess of $250,000 by Contractual Maturity Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt We access the capital markets to meet our funding needs through the issuance of senior and subordinated notes, securitized debt obligations and federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase. In addition, we have access to short-term and long-term FHLB advances secured by certain of our investment securities, multifamily real estate loans and commercial real estate loans. Our short-term borrowings include those borrowings with an original contractual maturity of one year or less and do not include the current portion of long-term debt. The short-term borrowings, which consist of federal funds purchased, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase remained relatively flat between December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Our long-term funding, which primarily consists of securitized debt obligations and senior and subordinated notes, increased by $2.4 billion to $42.3 billion as of December 31, 2021 from December 31, 2020 primarily driven by net issuances in our securitization programs. In the next 12 months, $21.2 billion of our long-term debt including operating leases and purchase obligations is scheduled to mature. We provide more information on our securitization activity in “Note 5—Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations” and on our borrowings in “Note 8—Deposits and Borrowings.” The following table summarizes issuances of securitized debt obligations, senior and subordinated notes and their respective maturities or redemptions for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Table 33: Long-Term Debt Funding Activities Credit Ratings Our credit ratings impact our ability to access capital markets and our borrowing costs. Rating agencies assign their ratings based on numerous factors, including liquidity, capital adequacy, asset quality, quality of earnings and the probability of systemic support. Significant changes in these factors could result in different ratings. Table 34 provides a summary of the credit ratings for the senior unsecured long-term debt of Capital One Financial Corporation, COBNA and CONA as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. Table 34: Senior Unsecured Long-Term Debt Credit Ratings As of February 17, 2022, Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”), Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) have our credit ratings on a stable outlook. Other Commitments Our primary involvement with leases is in the capacity as a lessee where we lease premises to support our business. A majority of our leases are operating leases of office space, retail bank branches and Cafés. Our operating leases expire at various dates through 2071 and certain of these leases also have extension or termination options. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.7 billion in aggregate operating lease liabilities, of which $279 million will be due in the following 12 months. We provide more information on our lease activity in “Note 7—Premises, Equipment and Leases.” We have purchase obligations that represents substantial agreements to purchase goods or receive services such as data management, media and other software and third-party services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify significant terms. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.5 billion in aggregate purchase obligation liabilities, of which $551 million will be due in the following 12 months. As of December 31, 2021, our total unfunded lending commitments was $414.5 billion, primarily consisting of credit card lines, loan commitments to customers of both our Commercial Banking and Consumer Banking businesses, as well as standby and commercial letters of credit. We generally manage the potential risk of unfunded lending commitments by limiting the total amount of arrangements, monitoring the size and maturity structure of these portfolios and applying the same credit standards for all of our credit activities. For additional information refer to “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.” We also enter into various contractual arrangements that may require future cash payments, including short-term obligations such as trade payables, commitments to fund certain equity investments, obligations for pension and post-retirement benefit plans, and representation and warranty reserves, which are discussed in more detail in “Note 5—Variable Interest Entities and Securitizations,” “Note 14—Employee Benefit Plans” and “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.” Our primary market risk exposures include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and commodity pricing risk. We are exposed to market risk primarily from the following operations and activities: • Traditional banking activities of deposit gathering and lending; • Asset/liability management activities including the management of investment securities, short-term and long-term borrowings and derivatives; • Foreign operations in the U.K. and Canada within our Credit Card business; and • Customer accommodation activities within our Commercial Banking business. We have enterprise-wide risk management policies and limits, approved by our Board of Directors, which govern our market risk management activities. Our objective is to manage our exposure to market risk in accordance with these policies and limits based on prevailing market conditions and long-term expectations. We provide additional information below about our primary sources of market risk, our market risk management strategies and the measures that we use to evaluate these exposures. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk represents exposure to financial instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from the differences in the timing between the maturities or re-pricing of assets and liabilities. We manage our interest rate risk primarily by entering into interest rate swaps and other derivative instruments which could include caps, floors, options, futures and forward contracts. We use various industry standard market risk measurement techniques and analyses to measure, assess and manage the impact of changes in interest rates on our net interest income and our economic value of equity and changes in foreign exchange rates on our non-dollar-denominated funding and non-dollar equity investments in foreign operations. Net Interest Income Sensitivity Our net interest income sensitivity measure estimates the impact on our projected 12-month baseline net interest income resulting from movements in interest rates. In addition to our existing assets and liabilities, we incorporate expected future business growth assumptions, such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, and plans for projected changes in our funding mix in our baseline forecast. In measuring the sensitivity of interest rate movements on our projected net interest income, we assume a hypothetical instantaneous parallel shift in the level of interest rates detailed in Table 35 below . At the current level of interest rates, our net interest income is expected to increase in higher rate scenarios and decrease in lower rate scenarios. Our current sensitivity to upward shocks has decreased as compared to December 31, 2020, mainly due to the increase in market interest rates and a decrease in our cash balances. Economic Value of Equity Our economic value of equity sensitivity measure estimates the impact on the net present value of our assets and liabilities, including derivative exposures, resulting from movements in interest rates. Our economic value of equity sensitivity measure is calculated based on our existing assets and liabilities, including derivatives, and does not incorporate business growth assumptions or projected balance sheet changes. Key assumptions used in the calculation include projecting rate sensitive prepayments for mortgage securities, loans and other assets, term structure modeling of interest rates, discount spreads, and deposit volume and pricing assumptions. In measuring the sensitivity of interest rate movements on our economic value of equity, we assume a hypothetical instantaneous parallel shift in the level of interest rates detailed in Table 35 below. Our current economic value of equity sensitivity profile demonstrates that our economic value of equity increases moderately in higher interest rate scenarios (+50 and +100bps), while decreasing in a more extreme higher interest rate scenario (+200 bps) and a lower interest rate scenario (-50 bps). Our current economic value of equity sensitivity to upward shocks has also decreased as compared to December 31, 2020 mainly due to the increase in long-term interest rates and a decrease in our cash balances. Table 35 shows the estimated percentage impact on our projected baseline net interest income and economic value of equity calculated under the methodology described above as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. In instances where an interest rate scenario would result in a rate less than 0%, we assume a rate of 0% for that scenario. This assumption applies only to jurisdictions that do not have negative policy rates. In jurisdictions that have negative policy rates, we do not floor interest rates at 0%. Table 35: Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis In addition to these industry standard measures, we also consider the potential impact of alternative interest rate scenarios, such as stressed rate shocks as well as steepening and flattening yield curve scenarios in our internal interest rate risk management decisions. Limitations of Market Risk Measures The interest rate risk models that we use in deriving these measures incorporate contractual information, internally-developed assumptions and proprietary modeling methodologies, which project borrower and depositor behavior patterns in certain interest rate environments. Other market inputs, such as interest rates, market prices and interest rate volatility, are also critical components of our interest rate risk measures. We regularly evaluate, update and enhance these assumptions, models and analytical tools as we believe appropriate to reflect our best assessment of the market environment and the expected behavior patterns of our existing assets and liabilities. There are inherent limitations in any methodology used to estimate the exposure to changes in market interest rates. The sensitivity analysis described above contemplates only certain movements in interest rates and is performed at a particular point in time based on the existing balance sheet and, in some cases, expected future business growth and funding mix assumptions. The strategic actions that management may take to manage our balance sheet may differ significantly from our projections, which could cause our actual earnings and economic value of equity sensitivities to differ substantially from the above sensitivity analysis. For further information on our interest rate exposures, see “Note 9—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” Foreign Exchange Risk Foreign exchange risk represents exposure to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in other currencies. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk primarily from the intercompany funding denominated in pound sterling (“GBP”) and the Canadian dollar (“CAD”) that we provide to our businesses in the U.K. and Canada and net equity investments in those businesses. We are also exposed to foreign exchange risk due to changes in the dollar-denominated value of future earnings and cash flows from our foreign operations and from our Euro (“EUR”)-denominated borrowings. Our non-dollar denominated intercompany funding and EUR-denominated borrowings expose our earnings to foreign exchange transaction risk. We manage these transaction risks by using forward foreign currency derivatives and cross-currency swaps to hedge our exposures. We measure our foreign exchange transaction risk exposures by applying a 1% U.S. dollar appreciation shock against the value of the non-dollar denominated intercompany funding and EUR-denominated borrowings and their related hedges, which shows the impact to our earnings from foreign exchange risk. Our intercompany funding outstanding was 520 million GBP and 320 million GBP as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and 5.0 billion CAD and 5.3 billion CAD as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our EUR-denominated borrowings outstanding were 1.2 billion EUR and 1.3 billion EUR as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our non-dollar equity investments in foreign operations expose our balance sheet to translation risk in AOCI and our capital ratios. We manage our AOCI exposure by entering into foreign currency derivatives designated as net investment hedges. We measure these exposures by applying a 30% U.S. dollar appreciation shock, which we believe approximates a significant adverse shock over a one-year time horizon, against the value of the equity invested in our foreign operations net of related net investment hedges where applicable. Our gross equity exposures in our U.K. and Canadian operations were 1.8 billion GBP and 1.7 billion GBP as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and 1.9 billion CAD and 1.5 billion CAD as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. As a result of our derivative management activities, we believe our net exposure to foreign exchange risk is minimal. Risk related to Customer Accommodation Derivatives We offer interest rate, commodity and foreign currency derivatives as an accommodation to our customers within our Commercial Banking business. We offset the majority of the market risk of these customer accommodation derivatives by entering into offsetting derivatives transactions with other counterparties. We use value-at-risk (“VaR”) as the primary method to measure the market risk in our customer accommodation derivative activities on a daily basis. VaR is a statistical risk measure used to estimate the potential loss from movements observed in the recent market environment. We employ a historical simulation approach using the most recent 500 business days and use a 99 percent confidence level and a holding period of one business day. As a result of offsetting our customer exposures with other counterparties, we believe that our net exposure to market risk in our customer accommodation derivatives is minimal. For further information on our risk related to customer accommodation derivatives, see “Note 9—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) Transition On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), the regulator for the administration of LIBOR, announced that LIBOR would be transitioned as an interest rate benchmark and that it will no longer compel panel banks to contribute LIBOR data beyond December 31, 2021. On March 5, 2021, the ICE Benchmark Administration (“IBA”), the administrator of LIBOR, confirmed its intention to cease publication of the 1-week and 2-month USD LIBOR settings immediately following the LIBOR publication on December 31, 2021, and the remaining USD LIBOR tenors (overnight; 1, 3, 6, and 12 months) immediately following the LIBOR publication on June 30, 2023. The continuation of USD LIBOR as a representative rate into mid-2023 will allow many legacy USD LIBOR contracts to mature prior to cessation. Following IBA’s announcement, the FCA formally announced the future permanent cessation and loss of representativeness of LIBOR benchmarks. The Federal Banking Agencies issued further guidance that banking organizations should cease using USD LIBOR as a reference rate in new contracts as soon as practicable and in any event by December 31, 2021. Our enterprise LIBOR transition program team, which has been working on this effort since 2018 and includes senior management representatives from across the enterprise, provides monthly reporting to senior management and quarterly reporting to our Board of Directors. The information provided to senior management and the Board of Directors includes exposure reporting, updates on progress toward our goals to reduce our LIBOR exposure and relevant regulatory or industry developments. Our transition effort is focused on two objectives: 1) remediation of our existing LIBOR exposures and 2) transitioning ongoing activities away from LIBOR. Our remediation of existing LIBOR exposures is focused on proactively transitioning exposures from LIBOR to an alternative rate or incorporating LIBOR transition language (“fallback language”) into contracts to provide a contractual mechanism for transitioning away from LIBOR upon its cessation. Our fallback language aligns with the language recommended by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”) in our existing lending contracts and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) in our derivative contracts and agreements to the greatest extent possible. We continue to focus our LIBOR transition efforts on: • monitoring established controls to prevent the origination of LIBOR indexed instruments • working with impacted customers to remediate remaining LIBOR contracts • engaging with our clients, industry working groups, and regulators • monitoring federal legislation relevant to our portfolio The majority of LIBOR contracts that we have transitioned to alternative rates have employed the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). In the U.S., SOFR has been selected as the preferred alternative rate by the ARRC for certain U.S. dollar derivative and cash instruments. We have proactively worked with customers and prepared our systems, models, valuation tools and processes to focus originations on SOFR and other non-LIBOR rates and will continue to do so. While the majority of our non-LIBOR transactions have utilized SOFR, we have also employed credit sensitive alternative rates to LIBOR, to a limited extent, in response to customer demand. As of December 31, 2021, we have derivatives with a notional value of $19.6 billion and commercial loans with a maximum potential exposure of $11.2 billion indexed to SOFR. As of December 31, 2021, our contracts indexed to USD LIBOR that are scheduled to mature after June 30, 2023 totaled $147.2 billion which includes the maximum potential exposure of commercial loans, notional amounts of derivatives and outstandings on other instruments. To track transition status, instruments are categorized based on whether they have fallback language (which may or may not adhere to the ISDA and ARRC standards) or have either no fallback language or have not yet been assessed for fallback language. Instruments with no fallback language or those not yet assessed represent a higher risk for not transitioning from LIBOR by June 30, 2023. The majority of the instruments maturing after June 30, 2023 are derivatives and commercial loans, which are summarized in the table below. Of these instruments, the majority contain fallback language which adheres to the ISDA and ARRC standards. We will continue to focus on reducing this exposure in advance of June 30, 2023 through our transition efforts, normal operations and customer interactions. Table 36: LIBOR Exposures on Derivatives and Commercial Loans _________ (1) Commercial loan balances represent maximum potential exposures and derivatives represent notional exposure. (2) This table does not include a population of other instruments that have LIBOR outstandings maturing after June 30, 2023 of $10.8 billion. These transition efforts have been implemented to remediate our remaining LIBOR contracts by June 30, 2023. For a further discussion of the various risks we face in connection with the expected replacement of LIBOR on our operations, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors— The transition away from LIBOR may adversely affect our business.”. Table A—Net Charge-Offs Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures The following non-GAAP measures consist of TCE, tangible assets and metrics computed using these amounts, which include tangible book value per common share, return on average tangible assets, return on average TCE and TCE ratio. We consider these metrics to be key financial performance measures that management uses in assessing capital adequacy and the level of returns generated. While these non-GAAP measures are widely used by investors, analysts and bank regulatory agencies to assess the capital position of financial services companies, they may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies. The following table presents reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the applicable amounts measured in accordance with GAAP. Table B—Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures __________ (1) Includes impact of related deferred taxes. (2) TCE ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated based on TCE divided by tangible assets. Alternative Reference Rates Committee: A group of private-market participants convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that has recommended SOFR as the preferred alternative to replace U.S. dollar (USD) LIBOR referenced instruments. Amortized cost: The amount at which a financing receivable or investment is originated or acquired, adjusted for applicable accrued interest, accretion, or amortization of premium, discount, and net deferred fees or costs, collection of cash, write-offs, foreign exchange and fair value hedge accounting adjustments. Annual Report: References to our “2021 Form 10-K” or “2021 Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Banks: Refers to COBNA and CONA. Basel Committee: The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. Basel III Advanced Approaches: Following the Tailoring Rule, the Basel III Advanced Approaches was mandatory for Category I and II institutions. Category III institutions, such as us, are no longer subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches framework effective January 1, 2020. Basel III Capital Rules: The regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Banking Agencies in July 2013 to implement the Basel III capital framework developed by the Basel Committee as well as certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions. Basel III Standardized Approach: The Basel III Capital Rules modified Basel I to create the Basel III Standardized Approach. Capital One or the Company: Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”): Legislation signed into law on March 27, 2020. This law, among other things, authorized a number of lending programs to support the flow of credit to consumers and businesses and gave the banking organizations an option to temporarily suspend the determination of certain qualified loans modified as a result of COVID-19 as being TDRs, which was extended by the Consolidated Appropriations Act 2021. Carrying value (with respect to loans ) : The amount at which a loan is recorded on the consolidated balance sheets. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For loans that are or have been on nonaccrual status, the carrying value is also reduced by any net charge-offs that have been recorded and the amount of interest payments applied as a reduction of principal under the cost recovery method. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer, net of any related reserves. Loans held for sale are recorded at either fair value (if we elect the fair value option) or at the lower of cost or fair value. CECL: In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments—Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments . This ASU requires an impairment model (known as the current expected credit loss (“CECL”) model) that is based on expected rather than incurred losses, with an anticipated result of more timely loss recognition. This guidance was effective for us on January 1, 2020. CECL Transition Rule: A final rule adopted by the Federal Banking Agencies that provides banking institutions an optional five-year transition period to phase in the impact of the CECL standard on their regulatory capital. COBNA: Capital One Bank (USA), National Association, one of our fully owned subsidiaries, which offers credit card products along with other lending products and consumer services. Common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital: Calculated as the sum of common equity, related surplus and retained earnings, and accumulated other comprehensive income net of applicable phase-ins, less goodwill and other intangibles net of associated deferred tax liabilities and applicable phase-ins, less other deductions, as defined by regulators. CONA: Capital One, National Association, one of our fully owned subsidiaries, which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients. Credit risk: The risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from an obligor’s failure to meet the terms of any contract with the Company or otherwise perform as agreed. Cybersecurity Incident: The unauthorized access by an outside individual who obtained certain types of personal information relating to people who had applied for our credit card products and to our credit card customers that we announced on July 29, 2019. Derivative: A contract or agreement whose value is derived from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, prices of securities or commodities, credit worthiness for credit default swaps or financial or commodity indices. Discontinued operations: The operating results of a component of an entity, as defined by Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 205, that are removed from continuing operations when that component has been disposed of or it is management’s intention to sell the component. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”): Regulatory reform legislation signed into law on July 21, 2010. This law broadly affects the financial services industry and contains numerous provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. Exchange Act: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”): A language for the electronic communication of business and financial data. Federal Banking Agencies: The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Federal Reserve: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. FICO score: A measure of consumer credit risk provided by credit bureaus, typically produced from statistical modeling software created by FICO (formerly known as “Fair Isaac Corporation”) utilizing data collected by the credit bureaus. Foreign exchange contracts: Contracts that provide for the future receipt or delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon terms. GSE or Agency: A government-sponsored enterprise or agency is a financial services corporation created by the United States Congress. Examples of U.S. government agencies include Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”), Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”). Interest rate sensitivity: The exposure to interest rate movements. Interest rate swaps: Contracts in which a series of interest rate flows in a single currency are exchanged over a prescribed period. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of derivative contract that we use in our asset/liability management activities. Investment grade: Represents a Moody’s long-term rating of Baa3 or better; and/or a S&P long-term rating of BBB- or better; and/or a Fitch long-term rating of BBB- or better; or if unrated, an equivalent rating using our internal risk ratings. Instruments that fall below these levels are considered to be non-investment grade. Investor entities: Entities that invest in community development entities (“CDE”) that provide debt financing to businesses and non-profit entities in low-income and rural communities. LCR Rule: In September 2014, the Federal Banking Agencies issued final rules implementing the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) in the United States. The LCR is calculated by dividing the amount of an institution’s high quality, unencumbered liquid assets by its estimated net cash outflow, as defined and calculated in accordance with the LCR Rule. Leverage ratio: Tier 1 capital divided by average assets after certain adjustments, as defined by the regulators. Liquidity risk: The risk that the Company will not be able to meet its future financial obligations as they come due, or invest in future asset growth because of an inability to obtain funds at a reasonable price within a reasonable time. Loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio: The relationship, expressed as a percentage, between the principal amount of a loan and the appraised value of the collateral securing the loan. Managed presentation: A non-GAAP presentation of business segment results derived from our internal management accounting and reporting process, which employs various allocation methodologies, including funds transfer pricing, to assign certain balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their related revenues and expenses directly or indirectly attributable to each business segment. The results of our individual businesses reflect the manner in which management evaluates performance and makes decisions about funding our operations and allocating resources and are intended to reflect each segment as if it were a stand-alone business. Market risk: The risk that an institution’s earnings or the economic value of equity could be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates or other market factors. Master netting Agreement: An agreement between two counterparties that have multiple contracts with each other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts through a single payment in the event of default or termination of any one contract. Mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”): The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors. Net charge-off rate : Represents (annualized) net charge-offs divided by average loans held for investment for the period. Negative net charge-offs and related rates are captioned as net recoveries. Net interest margin: Represents (annualized) net interest income divided by average interest-earning assets for the period. NSFR Rule: The Federal Banking Agencies issued a rule in October 2020 implementing the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”). The NSFR measures the stability of our funding profile and requires us to maintain minimum amounts of stable funding to support our assets, commitments and derivatives exposures over a one-year period. Nonperforming loans: Generally include loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. We do not report loans classified as held for sale as nonperforming. Public Funds deposits: Deposits that are derived from a variety of political subdivisions such as school districts and municipalities. Purchase volume: Consists of purchase transactions, net of returns, for the period, and excludes cash advance and balance transfer transactions. Rating agency: An independent agency that assesses the credit quality and likelihood of default of an issue or issuer and assigns a rating to that issue or issuer. Repurchase agreement: An instrument used to raise short-term funds whereby securities are sold with an agreement for the seller to buy back the securities at a later date. Restructuring charges: Charges associated with the realignment of resources supporting various businesses, primarily consisting of severance and related benefits pursuant to our ongoing benefit programs and impairment of certain assets related to the business locations and/or activities being exited. Risk-weighted assets: On- and off-balance sheet assets that are assigned to one of several broad risk categories and weighted by factors representing their risk and potential for default. Securitized debt obligations: A type of asset-backed security and structured credit product constructed from a portfolio of fixed-income assets. Stress capital buffer: A component of our new standardized approach capital conservation buffer, which will be recalibrated annually based on the results of our supervisory stress tests. Subprime: For purposes of lending in our Credit Card business, we generally consider FICO scores of 660 or below, or other equivalent risk scores, to be subprime. For purposes of auto lending in our Consumer Banking business, we generally consider FICO scores of 620 or below to be subprime. Tailoring Rules: In October 2019, the Federal Banking Agencies released final rules that provide for tailored application of certain capital, liquidity and stress-testing requirements across different categories of banking institutions. As a bank holding company with total consolidated assets of at least $250 billion that does not exceed any of the applicable risk-based thresholds, we are a Category III institution under the Tailoring Rules. Tangible common equity: A non-GAAP financial measure. Common equity less goodwill and other intangible assets adjusted for deferred tax liabilities associated with non-tax deductible intangible assets and tax deductible goodwill. Troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”): A TDR is deemed to occur when the contractual terms of a loan agreement are modified by granting a concession to a borrower that is experiencing financial difficulty. Unfunded commitments: Legally binding agreements to provide a defined level of financing until a specified future date. U.K. PPI Reserve: U.K. payment protection insurance customer refund reserve. U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Accounting rules and conventions defining acceptable practices in preparing financial statements in the U.S. U.S. Real Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) Rate :  Is an inflation-adjusted measure that reflects the value of all goods and services produced by an economy in a given year. Variable interest entity (“VIE”): An entity that, by design, either (i) lack sufficient equity to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties; or (ii) have equity investors that do not have the ability to make significant decisions relating to the entity’s operations through voting rights; and/or (iii) do not have the obligation to absorb the expected losses, or do not have the right to receive the residual returns of the  entity. AML: Anti-money laundering ABS: Asset-backed securities AOCI: Accumulated other comprehensive income ARRC: Alternative Reference Rates Committee ASU: Accounting Standards Update ASC: Accounting Standards Codification ATM: Automated teller machine AWS: Amazon Web Services, Inc. BHC: Bank holding company bps: Basis points CAD: Canadian dollar CAP: Compliance Assurance Process CARES: Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review CCP: Central Counterparty Clearinghouse, or Central Clearinghouse CCPA: California Consumer Privacy Act CFTC: Commodity Futures Trading Commission CPRA: California Privacy Rights Act CDE: Community development entities CECL: Current expected credit loss CET1: Common equity Tier 1 capital CFPB: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau CMBS: Commercial mortgage-backed securities CME: Chicago Mercantile Exchange COEP: Capital One (Europe) plc COF: Capital One Financial Corporation COSO: Committee of the Treadway Commission COVID-19: Coronavirus disease of 2019 CRA: Community Reinvestment Act CVA: Credit valuation adjustment DCF: Discounted cash flow DDOS: Distributed Denial of Service DIB: Diversity Inclusion and Belonging DIF: Deposit Insurance Fund DRR: Designated Reserve Ratio DVA: Debit valuation adjustment EGRRCPA: Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act EU: European Union EUR: Euro Fannie Mae: Federal National Mortgage Association FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board FCA: U.K. Financial Conduct Authority FCM: Futures commission merchant FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDICIA: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 FFIEC: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council FHC: Financial Holding Company FHLB: Federal Home Loan Banks FinCEN: Financial Crimes Enforcement Network Fitch: Fitch Ratings FIRREA: Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 FSOC: The Financial Stability Oversight Council Freddie Mac: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation FVC: Fair Value Committee GAAP: Generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. GBP: Pound sterling GDP: U.S. Real Gross Domestic Product GDPR: General Data Protection Regulation Ginnie Mae: Government National Mortgage Association GLBA: Gramm-Leach Bliley Act G-SIB: Global systemically important banks GSE or Agency: Government-sponsored enterprise HQLA: High-Quality Liquid Assets IBA : ICE Benchmark Administration IBOR : Interbank Offered Rate ICE: Intercontinental Exchange IRM: Independent Risk Management IRS: Internal Revenue Service ISDA: International Swaps and Derivatives Association LCH: LCH Group LCR: Liquidity coverage ratio LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate LTV: Loan-to-Value MDL: Multi-district litigation Moody’s: Moody’s Investors Service MSRs: Mortgage servicing rights NSFR: Net stable funding ratio NYSE: New York Stock Exchange OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OTC: Over-the-counter PCA: Prompt corrective action PCAOB: Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCD: Purchased Credit-Deteriorated PCI: Purchased credit-impaired PCCR: Purchased credit card relationship PIPEDA: Personal Information Protection and Electronic Document Act PPI: Payment protection insurance PPP: Paycheck Protection Program RMBS: Residential mortgage-backed securities RSU: Restricted stock unit S&P: Standard & Poor’s SEC: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission SOFR: Secured Overnight Financing Rate TCE: Tangible common equity TDR: Troubled debt restructuring TILA: Truth in Lending Act U.K.: United Kingdom U.K. GDPR: U.K. General Data Protection Regulation U.S.: United States of America USD: United States Dollar VAC: Valuations Advisory Committee VIE: Variable interest entity XBRL: Extensible business reporting language