********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business faces significant risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading prices of our common stock could decline by virtue of these risks. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this report. Risks Relating to Our Business Our results of operations have been adversely affected, and our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in the future, by the global COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally and has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption within the markets in which we operate. The pandemic has adversely affected and is likely to further adversely affect nearly all aspects of our business and markets, including our sales, operations, cash flow and workforce and the operations of our customers, suppliers, vendors and business partners. Among other things, many optical practitioners and retailers, hospitals, medical offices and fertility clinics closed their facilities, restricted access, or delayed or canceled patient visits, exams and elective medical procedures in response to the pandemic, and many customers that have reopened are experiencing reduced patient visits, which has resulted in reduced demand for and sales of our products and services. If the COVID-19 pandemic continues and conditions worsen, our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be materially adversely affected in numerous ways, including, but not limited to, decreased net sales from sales of our products and services due to customer facility closures, restricted access and reduced patient visits, exams and elective medical procedures; disruption in the manufacture and distribution of our products, including increased manufacturing and distribution costs, reduced manufacturing capacity and inadequate inventory levels; increased risk of inventory that may expire; write-offs or obsolescence of inventory, equipment or other assets; disruptions to or increased costs from our raw material and product suppliers and broader supply chain and distribution systems; delays in our clinical trials which could negatively impact our new product pipeline milestones and regulatory clearances, approvals or certifications; extended delays in or defaults on payments of outstanding receivables; insolvency of customers, suppliers, vendors and business partners; an inability to access lending, capital markets and other sources of liquidity when needed on reasonable terms or at all; an inability to comply with financial covenants in our debt agreements; and future restructuring, impairment and other charges. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions impact our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, difficult to predict and largely outside of our control, including, but not limited to, the continued spread, duration and severity of the pandemic outbreak; the occurrence, spread, duration and severity of any subsequent wave or waves of outbreaks, including the emergence and spread of variants of the COVID-19 virus; the impact on our customers and suppliers; the actions taken by the U.S. and foreign governments to contain the pandemic, address its impact or respond to the reduction in global and local economic activity; the occurrence, duration and severity of a global, regional or national recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience materially adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. 32 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our substantial and expanding international operations are subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results. A significant portion of our current operations are conducted and located outside the United States, and our growth strategy involves expanding our existing foreign operations and entering into new foreign jurisdictions. We have significant manufacturing and distribution sites in North America, Latin America and Europe. Over half of our net sales for the fiscal years ended October 31, 2021 and 2020, were derived from the sale of products outside the United States. We believe that sales outside the United States will continue to account for a material portion of our total net sales for the foreseeable future. International operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: • we may find it difficult to manage the effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our ability to operate internationally and for our employees to travel internationally; • we may have difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries; • we may have difficulty gaining market share in countries such as Japan and China because of regulatory restrictions and customer preferences; • we may find it difficult to grow in emerging markets such as China, India, Russia, Brazil and other developing nations due to, among other things, customer acceptance, undeveloped and/or unfamiliar distribution channels, regulatory restrictions and changes, and business knowledge of these new markets; • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions, including the tariffs enacted by the Chinese government on certain U.S. goods, the scope and duration of which remain uncertain; • we may find it difficult to comply with a variety of United States and foreign legal, compliance and regulatory requirements such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, international data security and privacy laws, EU MDR and IVDR; • we may find it difficult to manage a large organization spread throughout various countries; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results; • foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; • failure to comply with United States Department of Commerce and other nations' import-export controls may result in fines and/or penalties; • general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; • natural disasters, pandemics such as COVID-19, war, terrorism, labor disruptions and international conflicts may cause significant economic disruption and political and social instability, resulting in decreased demand for our products, adversely affecting our manufacturing and distribution capabilities, or causing interruptions in our supply chain; • foreign governments may adopt regulations, including those similar to the EU MDR and IVDR or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities, including but not limited to increased enforcement of potentially conflicting and ambiguous anti-bribery laws; • we may have difficulty enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; and • we may be subject to unforeseen economic or political events in certain countries that may have an impact on our customers' ability or preferences to buy our products. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. 33 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Current market conditions and recessionary pressures in one or more of our markets could impact our ability to grow our business. Over the last few years in the United States and globally, market and economic conditions have been challenging, particularly in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Foreign countries, in particular the Euro zone, have experienced recessionary pressures and face continued concerns about the systemic impacts of adverse economic conditions and geopolitical issues. Any negative impact on economic conditions and international markets, continued volatility or deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation or other adverse economic conditions may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our customers. It may limit our ability, and the ability of our customers, to replace maturing liabilities and to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Global markets continued to face threats and uncertainty during fiscal 2021. Uncertain economic and financial market conditions may also adversely affect the financial condition of our customers, suppliers and other business partners. If our customers’ financial conditions are adversely affected, customers may reduce their purchases of our products or we may not be able to collect accounts receivable, each of which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations or financial results. Our global business may be affected by local economic conditions, including inflation, increasing labor costs, recession, and currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may adversely affect the cost to manufacture and provide our products and services and the demand for such products and services. There is no guarantee that we will be able to fully absorb any such additional costs in the prices for our products and services. CooperVision and CooperSurgical are encountering consolidation in their customer bases and emergence of more centralized large customer groups and retail chains. Due to this trend, global and regional key account customers now represent a larger proportion or concentration of our business and any disruption to these relationships may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions that we have made and may make in the future involve numerous risks. We have a history of acquiring businesses and products that have significantly contributed to our growth in recent years. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to consider acquiring complementary technologies, products and businesses. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and an increase in amortization and/or impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. In fiscal 2021, CooperVision acquired a privately held medical device company and a privately-held UK contact lenses manufacturer. In fiscal 2020, CooperVision acquired a privately-held U.S. contact lens manufacturer focusing on ortho-k lenses. In fiscal 2021, CooperSurgical acquired three privately-held medical device companies and one privately-held IVF cryo-storage software solutions company. In fiscal 2020, CooperSurgical acquired a privately-held distributor of IVF medical devices and systems. Risks we could face with respect to these acquisitions include: • failure to successfully obtain the anticipated revenues, margins and earnings benefits; • difficulties in, and expenses related to, the integration of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company and establishment of appropriate accounting controls and reporting procedures and other regulatory compliance procedures, including but not limited to third-party compliance and due diligence; 34 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES • increased leverage and the risk of lack of access to available financing, including financing for the acquisition or refinancing of debt owed by us on a timely basis and on reasonable terms; • risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • potential loss of employees; • an inability to identify and consummate future acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; • diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns; • risks of the acquired company’s noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations; • expenses of any undisclosed or potential liabilities, contingent liabilities or indemnification obligations of the acquired company; • expenses, including restructuring expenses, to shut-down our own locations or terminate our employees; • application of and compliance with new and unfamiliar regulatory frameworks such as pharmaceutical regulation applicable to our PARAGARD IUD; • Failure to successfully obtain or maintain reimbursements under the third-party payor plans, including but not limited to governmental programs, due to complex reporting and payment obligations; • a dilution of earnings per share; and • risks inherent in accounting allocations and the risk that we are required to record significant adjustments to the preliminary fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed within the measurement period. The UK’s withdrawal from the EU may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. We are a multinational company headquartered in the United States with worldwide operations, with significant business operations in Europe, including in the UK. Following a national referendum and enactment of legislation by the government of the UK, the UK formally withdrew from the EU and ratified a trade and cooperation agreement governing its future relationship with the EU. The agreement, which is being applied provisionally from January 1, 2021 until it is ratified by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, addresses trade, economic arrangements, law enforcement, judicial cooperation and a governance framework including procedures for dispute resolution, among other things. Because the agreement merely sets forth a framework in many respects and will require complex additional bilateral negotiations between the UK and the EU as both parties continue to work on the rules for implementation, significant political and economic uncertainty remains about how the precise terms of the relationship between the parties will differ from the terms before withdrawal. These developments, or the perception that any related developments could occur, have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and financial markets, and may significantly reduce global market liquidity, restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets or restrict our access to capital. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings have been and may continue to be subject to increased market volatility. Lack of clarity about future UK laws and regulations as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, tax and customs laws, intellectual property rights, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws, employment laws and transport laws, could decrease foreign direct investment in the UK, increase costs and disrupt supply chains. 35 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We face risks associated with disruption of our manufacturing and distribution operations including possible failure to develop necessary manufacturing processes, or constrained, idle or excess capacity could adversely affect our profitability or competitive position. We manufacture a significant portion of the medical device products we sell. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing or distribution facilities, whether due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related work stoppages, technical or labor difficulties, integration difficulties, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), enforcement action by the FDA or other regulatory body if we are found to be in non-compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) or similar foreign requirements or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, materials such as silicone hydrogel require improvements to our manufacturing processes to make them cost effective. While we have improved our manufacturing capabilities for our silicone hydrogel products, our failure to continue to develop improvements to our manufacturing processes and reduce our cost of goods could significantly impact our ability to compete. Conversely, constrained, excess or idle capacity, which could result from acquisitions, unexpected demand, inaccurate sales forecasting or unexpected manufacturing efficiencies, could significantly impact our profitability, capital investments, customer service levels and near-term financial condition. CooperVision manufactures molded contact lenses, which represent the majority of our contact lens revenues, primarily at our facilities in Costa Rica, Hungary, Puerto Rico, the United Kingdom and the United States, with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. CooperSurgical manufactures the majority of its products in Costa Rica, the United Kingdom and the United States, with other smaller locations also existing in multiple locations around the world. In November 2017, CooperSurgical purchased a manufacturing facility in Costa Rica to consolidate a portion of global manufacturing. We manufacture certain products at only one manufacturing site for certain markets, and certain of our products are approved for manufacturing only at one site. If there were any prolonged disruption in the operations of the approved facility, it could take a significant amount of time to obtain required regulatory approvals, validate a second site and replace lost product, which could result in lost customers and thereby reduce sales, profitability and market share. CooperVision distributes products out of Belgium, Hungary, the United Kingdom and the United States and various smaller international distribution sites. CooperSurgical's products are primarily distributed out of its facilities in the United States and the Netherlands. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing distribution facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, challenges related to system implementation, destruction of or damage to any facility (as a result of natural disaster, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events) or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cybersecurity threats continue to increase in frequency and sophistication; a successful cybersecurity attack could interrupt or disrupt our information technology systems, or those of our third-party service providers, or cause the loss of confidential or protected data which could disrupt our business, force us to incur excessive costs or cause reputational harm. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent across industries and may occur on our systems or those of our third-party service providers or partners. The size and complexity of our information systems make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. Such attacks are increasing in their frequency, levels of persistence, levels of sophistication and intensity, and are being conducted by sophisticated and organized groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we may face increased cybersecurity risks due to our reliance on internet technology and the number of our employees who are working remotely, which may create additional opportunities for 36 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES cybercriminals to exploit vulnerabilities. In addition to unauthorized access to or acquisition of personal data, confidential information, intellectual property or other sensitive information, such attacks could include the deployment of harmful malware and ransomware, and may use a variety of methods, including denial-of-service attacks, social engineering and other means, to attain such unauthorized access or acquisition or otherwise affect service reliability and threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. Like many other companies, we experience attempted cybersecurity actions on a frequent basis, and the frequency of such attempts could increase in the future. While we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent or quickly identify service interruptions or security breaches. The techniques used by cybercriminals change frequently, may not be recognized until launched and can originate from a wide variety of sources, including outside groups such as external service providers, organized crime affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments or agencies. We cannot assure that our data protection efforts and our investment in information technology will prevent significant breakdowns, data leakages or breaches in our systems or those of our third-party services providers or partners. Any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of critical or sensitive confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. We maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. We manage our businesses utilizing complex integrated software and hardware information technology operating systems that are regularly maintained and upgraded; an interruption or disruption to these systems could disrupt our business or force us to incur excessive costs. We utilize complex integrated software and hardware operating systems, including enterprise resource planning and warehouse management systems, to support our business units and we have a continuous improvement strategy in place to keep our systems and overarching technology stable and in line with business needs and growth. Regular upgrades of our computer hardware and software revisions are typical and expected. We employ controlled change management methodologies to plan, test and execute all such system upgrades and improvements, and we believe that we assign adequate staffing and other resources to projects to ensure successful implementation. However, we cannot assure that our systems will meet our future business needs or that upgrades will operate as designed. We cannot assure that there will not be associated excessive costs or disruptions in portions of our business in the course of our maintenance, support and/or upgrade of these systems. We are in the midst of a multiyear process of implementing new enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems at CooperVision and CooperSurgical. Implementing a new ERP system is not only costly but complex and difficult. Implementing a new ERP system can negatively affect not only financial accounting and reporting processes but also external commercial activities such as order receipt and product delivery. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our new ERP system or that we will avoid these and other negative impacts from our implementation efforts. We rely on independent suppliers in our supply chain for raw materials, packaging materials and components, mechanical equipment and some finished goods; we could experience inventory shortages if any of these suppliers encounter a manufacturing or distribution disruption Our businesses utilize various chemicals, packaging materials, components, parts and raw materials which are generally available from more than one source. However, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from sole or primary suppliers to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens, certain medical devices and IVF products. We also source mechanical equipment and in certain instances finished goods from OEM suppliers. Supply of these goods, items and materials is protected by contractual agreements, availability of alternative suppliers and/or safety stocks. However, if current suppliers fail to supply sufficient goods, items or materials to us on a timely basis, or at all for any reason, 37 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES we could experience inventory shortages and disruption in our supply of products. For example, among other situations, some of the primary material used to make our silicone hydrogel contact lens products, including MyDay, Biofinity, Avaira and clariti, are supplied by few sole suppliers, and the failure of a key or sole supplier to timely supply sufficient items and materials necessary for the manufacture of our silicone hydrogel contact lenses could in turn disrupt our supply of those lenses to the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our supply chain and our cost of goods also may be negatively impacted by unanticipated price increases due to factors such as inflation, including wage inflation, or to supply restrictions beyond our control or the control of our suppliers. If we fail to protect our intellectual property adequately, our business could suffer. We consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licensing agreements, to be an integral component of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also may seek to enforce our intellectual property rights on others through litigation. Our claims, even if meritorious, may be found invalid or inapplicable to a party we believe infringes or has misappropriated our intellectual property rights. In addition, litigation can: • be expensive and time consuming to prosecute or defend; • result in a finding that we do not have certain intellectual property rights or that such rights lack sufficient scope or strength; • divert management's attention and resources; or • require us to license our intellectual property. We have applied for patent protection in the United States, the United Kingdom and other foreign jurisdictions relating to certain existing and proposed processes and products. We cannot assure that any of our patent applications will be approved. Patent applications in the United States, the United Kingdom and other foreign jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for a period of time, which may last until patents are issued, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature tends to lag behind actual discoveries by several months, we cannot be certain that we will be the first creator of inventions covered by any patent application we make or the first to file patent applications on such inventions. The patents we own could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others and may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. We also cannot assure that we will have adequate resources to enforce our patents. Both CooperVision and CooperSurgical also rely on proprietary technology which is unpatented. It is possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and assignment agreements, which generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, we cannot assure that these confidentiality agreements will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. 38 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. To maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. We also might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending applications from challenge by third parties. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. The laws of foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and selling competing products, and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products or processes could be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property of others. Our competitors in both the United States and foreign countries, some of which have substantially greater resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, as well as other third parties, may have applied for or obtained, or may in the future apply for and obtain, patents that will prevent, limit or otherwise interfere with our ability to make and sell our existing and planned products. In the contact lens industry, CooperVision, its competitors and other third parties hold patents covering contact lens designs, business methods, processes and materials. Claims that our products, business methods or processes infringe upon the proprietary rights of others often are not asserted until after commencement of commercial sales of products incorporating our technology. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in our industries. For example, CooperVision in the past faced significant patent litigation over its silicone hydrogel contact lens products. Third parties have made, and may make in the future, claims of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology. Any claims, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign or re-engineer our products, if feasible; • divert management's attention and resources; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use a necessary product, component or process. We cannot be certain of the outcome of any litigation. Any royalty or licensing agreement, if required, may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. A successful claim of infringement against us or our contract manufacturers in connection with the use of our technology, in particular if we are unable to manufacture or sell any of our planned products in any major market, could adversely affect our business. 39 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES We could experience losses from product liability claims or legal claims relating to our service offerings, including such claims and other losses resulting from sales of counterfeit and other infringing products. We face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury. We also face the risk that defects in the design or manufacture of our products or sales of counterfeit or other infringing products might necessitate a product recall and other actions by manufacturers, distributors or retailers in order to safeguard the health of consumers and protect the integrity of the subject brand. Additionally, we face the inherent risk of exposure to legal claims, including negligence, relating to our provision of certain service offerings, including our genetic testing services and their accuracy. Consumers may halt or delay purchases of a product or service that is the subject of a claim or recall or has been counterfeited. We handle some risk with third-party carrier policies that are subject to deductibles and limitations. There can be no assurance that we will not experience material losses due to product liability claims or recalls, legal claims relating to our service offerings, or a decline in sales resulting from sales of counterfeit or other infringing products, in the future. If our products are not accepted by the market, we will not be able to sustain or expand our business. Certain of our proposed products have not yet been clinically tested or commercially introduced, and we cannot assure that any of them, assuming they receive necessary regulatory approvals or certifications, will achieve market acceptance or generate operating profits. The development of a market for our products may be influenced by many factors, some of which are out of our control, including: • acceptance of our products by eye care and health care practitioners; • the cost competitiveness of our products; • consumer reluctance to try and use a new product; • regulatory and legislative requirements; • adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payors; • the earlier release of competitive products, such as new silicone hydrogel products, into the market by our competitors; and the emergence of newer and more competitive products. We operate in the highly competitive health care industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully. Each of our businesses operates within a highly competitive environment. In our soft contact lens business, CooperVision faces intense competition from competitors' products, in particular silicone hydrogel contact lenses, and may face increasing competition as other new products enter the market. Our largest competitors in the contact lens business, Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc., Alcon Inc. and Bausch Health Companies Inc. may have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development budgets, larger sales forces, greater market penetration and/or larger manufacturing volumes than CooperVision. They offer competitive products and differentiated materials, plus a variety of other eye care products including lens care products and ophthalmic pharmaceuticals, which may give them a competitive advantage in marketing their lenses. The market for contact lenses is intensely competitive and is characterized by declining sales volumes for older product lines and growing demand for silicone hydrogel-based products. Our ability to respond to these competitive pressures will depend on our ability to decrease our costs and maintain gross margins and operating results and to introduce new products successfully, on a timely basis in the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies and sufficient manufacturing capacity and capabilities for such products. Any significant decrease in our costs per lens will depend, in part, on our ability to increase sales volume and production 40 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES capabilities and our ability to secure adequate supply of materials used in production at reasonable costs. Our failure to respond to competitive pressures in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To a lesser extent, CooperVision also competes with manufacturers of eyeglasses and providers of other forms of vision correction including ophthalmic surgery. There can be no assurance that we will not encounter increased competition in the future, for example with increased product entries from Asia Pacific contact lens manufacturers, or that our competitors' newer contact lens products will not successfully erode CooperVision's contact lens business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The contact lens industry also continues to evolve with respect to the introduction of new distribution and fulfillment models and service technologies which may conflict with CooperVision’s strategy or interfere with its customers’ relationships and loyalty. For example, more contact lenses are being fulfilled directly to the consumer by manufacturers and wholesalers via online platforms, telemedicine is gaining popularity and more vision correction prescriptions are being provided through online refractive exams rather than in office by an eye care practitioner. CooperVision’s failure to adapt to the threats posed by these new and emerging distribution models and Internet driven services may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the women's health market, competitive factors include technological and scientific advances, product quality, access to local markets based on regulatory clearances, price and effective communication of product information to physicians, hospitals, patients and IVF clinics. CooperSurgical competes with a number of manufacturers in each of its family health care market areas, some of which have substantially greater financial and personnel resources and sell a much broader range of products, which may give them an advantage in marketing competitive products. New medical and technological developments may reduce the need for our products. Technological developments in the eye care, family and women's health care, and diagnostics testing industries, such as new surgical procedures or medical devices, and genetic testing technology may limit demand for our products and services. Corneal refractive surgical procedures such as Lasik surgery and the development of new pharmaceutical products may decrease the demand for our optical products. If these new advances provide a practical alternative to traditional vision correction, the demand for contact lenses and eyeglasses may materially decrease. We cannot assure that medical advances and technological developments will not have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Product innovations are important in the industry in which we operate, and we face the risk of product obsolescence if we are unable to develop new products or gain regulatory approvals or certifications or if our competitors introduce new products. Product innovations are important in the contact lens market in which CooperVision competes and in the areas of the health care industry in which CooperSurgical competes. CooperVision, both internally and externally with third parties, invests in new product development, including the development of silicone hydrogel-based contact lenses. While much of CooperVision’s research and development activities are performed internally, it also uses external research and development investment in collaborations and joint development with third parties. CooperSurgical has historically purchased, leveraged or licensed the technology developments of others. CooperSurgical also has invested in expanding the internal research and development function with the goal of organic growth and to complement our acquisitions strategy. Research and development time commitments, higher feasibility risk with longer term projects, greater dependence on, and reduced control over, third-party deliverables, the cost of obtaining necessary regulatory approval or certification and other costs related to product innovations can be substantial. 41 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES There can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain necessary regulatory approvals, certifications or clearances for our new products or that our new products will successfully compete in the marketplace and, as a result, justify the expense involved in their development and regulatory approval or certification. In addition, our competitors may have developed or may in the future develop new products or technologies, such as contact lenses with anti-microbial or anti-allergenic features, or “smart” contact lenses which incorporate electronics that could lead to the obsolescence of one or more of our products. Competitors may also introduce new uses for contact lenses, such as for drug delivery or the control of myopia. Failure to develop new product offerings and technological changes and to offer products that provide performance that is at least comparable to competing products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to environmental matters. Our facilities are subject to a broad range of United States federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and requirements, including those governing discharges to the air and water, the handling or disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes, remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances at our facilities and offsite disposal locations and occupational safety and health. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with such laws and requirements. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations, or the enforcement thereof, or the discovery of contamination at our facilities, may give rise to additional compliance or remediation costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such laws and requirements are constantly changing, are different in every jurisdiction and can impose substantial fines and sanctions for violations. As a manufacturer of various products, we are exposed to some risk of claims with respect to environmental matters, and there can be no assurance that material costs or liabilities will not be incurred in connection with any such claims. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the European Union such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products our CooperSurgical division manufactures. These and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan, China and various states of the U.S. may require us to re-design certain products to ensure compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. Environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) issues, including those related to climate change and sustainability, may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and damage our reputation. There is an increasing focus from certain investors, customers, consumers, employees and other stakeholders concerning ESG matters. Additionally, public interest and legislative pressure related to public companies’ ESG practices continue to grow. If our ESG practices fail to meet regulatory requirements or investor, customer, consumer, employee or other stakeholders' evolving expectations and standards for responsible corporate citizenship in areas including environmental stewardship, support for local communities, Board of Director and employee diversity, human capital management, employee health and safety practices, product quality, supply chain management, corporate governance and transparency, our reputation, brand and employee retention may be negatively impacted, and our customers and suppliers may be unwilling to continue to do business with us. Customers, consumers, investors and other stakeholders are increasingly focusing on environmental issues, including climate change, energy and water use, plastic waste and other sustainability concerns. Concern over climate change or plastics and packaging materials, in particular, may result in new or increased legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate impacts to the environment. Changing 42 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES customer and consumer preferences or increased regulatory requirements may result in increased demands or requirements regarding plastics and packaging materials, including single-use and non-recyclable plastic products and packaging, other components of our products and their environmental impact on sustainability, or increased customer and consumer concerns or perceptions (whether accurate or inaccurate) regarding the effects of substances present in certain of our products. Complying with these demands or requirements could cause us to incur additional manufacturing, operating or product development costs. If we do not adapt to or comply with new regulations, or fail to meet evolving investor, industry or stakeholder expectations and concerns regarding ESG issues, investors may reconsider their capital investment in our Company, and customers and consumers may choose to stop purchasing our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business or financial condition. If we do not retain our key personnel and attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business could suffer. If we fail to recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new customers, develop new products and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. The success of our business is heavily dependent on the leadership of our key management personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to recruit, develop and retain and motivate highly skilled sales, marketing, engineering and scientific personnel. Competition for these persons in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. Provisions of our governing documents and Delaware law, may have anti-takeover effects. Certain provisions of our Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws may inhibit changes in control of the Company not approved by our Board of Directors. These provisions include advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. We also have the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have anti-takeover effects. Risks Relating to Government Regulation of Manufacture and Sale of Our Products and Services. The costs of complying with the requirements of federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personal information, including health related information and the potential liability associated with failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Numerous state and federal laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, confidentiality, security, availability and integrity of individually identifiable information, including protected health information (PHI). For example, HIPAA establishes national privacy and security standards for protection of PHI by covered entities, such as our genetics testing subsidiaries, and the business associates with whom such entities contract for services, including another one of our subsidiaries, Eye Care Prime LLC, which offers value-added software solutions for eye care professionals. HIPAA requires both covered entities and business associates to develop and maintain policies and procedures for PHI that is used or disclosed, and to adopt administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect PHI. When we are acting as a business associate, our clients that are covered entities are mandated by HIPAA to enter into written agreements with us - known as business associate agreements - that require us to safeguard PHI in accordance with HIPAA. Our genetics testing subsidiaries are likewise required to enter into business associate agreements with any of their business associates. 43 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Mandatory penalties for HIPAA violations can be significant. A single breach incident can result in violations of multiple standards. If a person knowingly or intentionally obtains or discloses PHI in violation of HIPAA requirements, criminal penalties may also be imposed. We maintain safeguards that we believe are reasonable and appropriate to protect the privacy and security of PHI and other personally identifiable information consistent with applicable law and our contractual obligations; however, our systems may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, viruses, hackers, and other potential sources of security breaches. In addition, we may not be able to prevent incidences of inappropriate use or unauthorized access to PHI by our employees or contractors. Any such breaches could result in exposure to liability under federal and state laws and/or under our contractual arrangements and could adversely impact our business. Even when HIPAA does not apply, according to the FTC, violating consumers’ privacy rights or failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers’ personal information secure may constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act. The FTC expects a company’s data security measures to be reasonable and appropriate in light of the sensitivity and volume of consumer information it holds, the size and complexity of its business, and the cost of available tools to improve security and reduce vulnerabilities. Further, California enacted the CCPA, on June 28, 2018, which went into effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA gives California residents expanded rights to access and delete their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. Although there are limited exemptions for health-related information, including clinical trial data, the CCPA may increase our compliance costs and potential liability. Some observers have noted that the CCPA could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the United States, which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. Similar laws have been proposed in other states and at the federal level, and if passed, such laws may have potentially conflicting requirements that would make compliance challenging. We are also subject to laws and regulations in countries other than United States covering data privacy and the protection of health-related and other personal information. EU and EEA member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations, which impose significant compliance obligations. For example, the GDPR went into effect on May 25, 2018, and imposes stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data of individuals within the EEA, including, for example, expanded disclosures about how personal information is to be used, limitations on retention of information, increased requirements pertaining to health data and pseudonymized (i.e., key-coded) data, mandatory data breach notification requirements, handling data subject access requests and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. In addition, countries of the EEA may impose further obligations relating to the processing of genetic, biometric or health data, which could further add to our compliance costs and limit how we process this information. In addition, the GDPR increases the scrutiny of transfers of personal data from clinical trial sites located in the EEA to the United States and other jurisdictions that the European Commission does not recognize as having “adequate” data protection laws; in July 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union limited how organizations could lawfully transfer personal data from the EEA to the United States by invalidating the EU-US Privacy Shield and imposing further restrictions on use of the standard contractual clauses, which could increase our costs and our ability to efficiently process personal data from the EEA. Indeed, while the CJEU upheld the adequacy of the standard contractual clauses (a standard form of contract approved by the European Commission as an adequate personal data transfer mechanism, and potential alternative to the Privacy Shield), it made clear that reliance on them alone may not necessarily be sufficient in all circumstances. Use of the standard contractual clauses must now be assessed on a case-by-case basis taking into account the legal regime 44 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES applicable in the destination country, in particular applicable surveillance laws and rights of individuals and additional measures and/or contractual provisions may need to be put in place, however, the nature of these additional measures is currently uncertain. The CJEU went on to state that if a competent supervisory authority believes that the standard contractual clauses cannot be complied with in the destination country and the required level of protection cannot be secured by other means, such supervisory authority is under an obligation to suspend or prohibit that transfer. The European Commission has published revised standard contractual clauses for data transfers from the EEA: the revised clauses must be used for relevant new data transfers from September 27, 2021; existing standard contractual clauses arrangements must be migrated to the revised clauses by December 27, 2022. We will be required to implement the revised standard contractual clauses, in relation to relevant existing contracts and certain additional contracts and arrangements, within the relevant time frames. There is some uncertainty around whether the revised clauses can be used for all types of data transfers, particularly whether they can be relied on for data transfers to non-EEA entities subject to the GDPR. Compliance with U.S. and foreign privacy and security laws, rules and regulations could require us to take on more onerous obligations in our contracts, require us to engage in costly compliance exercises, restrict our ability to collect, use and disclose data, or in some cases, impact our or our partners’ or suppliers’ ability to operate in certain jurisdictions. Each of these constantly evolving laws can be subject to varying interpretations. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with privacy or security laws, policies, legal obligations or industry standards or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information may result in governmental enforcement actions and investigations including by European Data Protection Authorities, fines and penalties, litigation and/or adverse publicity, including by consumer advocacy groups, and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. For example, Companies that must comply with the GDPR face increased compliance obligations and risk, including more robust regulatory enforcement of data protection requirements and potential fines for noncompliance of up to €20 million or 4% of the annual global revenues of the noncompliant company, whichever is greater. Additionally, following the UK’s withdrawal from the EEA and the EU, and the expiry of the transition period, companies will have to comply with the GDPR and the GDPR as incorporated into the UK national law, the latter regime having the ability to separately fine up to the greater of £17.5 million or 4% of annual global turnover. The European Commission has adopted an adequacy decision in favor of the UK, enabling data transfers from EU member states to the UK without additional safeguards. However, the UK adequacy decision will automatically expire in June 2025 unless the European Commission re-assesses and renews/extends that decision, and remains under review by the Commission during this period. The relationship between the UK and the EU in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, and it is unclear how UK data protection laws and regulations will develop in the medium to longer term, and how data transfers to and from the UK will be regulated in the long term, which exposes us to further compliance risk. Such failures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. If the third parties we work with violate applicable laws, contractual obligations or suffer a security breach, such violations may also put us in breach of our obligations under privacy laws and regulations and could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in legislation and government regulation of the health care industry both in the United States and internationally, as well as third-party payors' efforts to control the costs of health care could materially adversely affect our business. The ACA made extensive changes to the delivery of health care in the United States. Among the provisions of the ACA, of greatest importance to the medical device industry and pharmaceutical industry are the following: • Establishment of the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; 45 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES • Payment system reforms including a national pilot program on payment bundling to encourage hospitals, physicians and other providers to improve the coordination, quality and efficiency of certain health care services through bundled payment models; • Creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board which has authority to recommend certain changes to reduce Medicare spending and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if Congress doesn't act on the recommendations; • Establishment of a Center for Medicare Innovation at CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending; and • An increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively. These measures could result in decreased net revenues or increased expenses from our fertility, office and surgical products and decrease potential returns from our development efforts. There have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the ACA in the future. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. The Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, will remain in effect until 2030, with the temporary suspension from May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021, unless additional action is taken by Congress. The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers. In addition, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, among other things, repealed the formula by which Medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments began in 2019 that are based on various performance measures and physicians’ participation in alternative payment models such as accountable care organizations. We expect that additional state and federal health care reform measures will be adopted in the future, including those initiatives affecting coverage and reimbursement for our products, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for health care products and services, which could adversely affect the growth of the market for our products or demand for our products, or result in additional pricing pressures. Also, any adoption of health care reform proposals on a state-by-state basis could require us to develop state-specific marketing and sales approaches. We cannot predict the effect such reforms or the prospect of their enactment may have on our business. In addition, third-party payors, whether governmental or commercial, whether inside the United States or abroad, increasingly attempt to contain or reduce the costs of health care. These cost-control methods include prospective payment systems, capitated rates, group purchasing, redesign of benefits, requiring pre-authorizations or second opinions prior to certain medical procedures, encouragement of healthier lifestyles and exploration of more cost-effective methods of delivering health care. Although cost controls or other requirements imposed by third-party payors have not historically had a significant effect on contact lens prices or distribution practices, this could change in the future and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may enroll as in-network providers and suppliers with certain payors. Although, becoming an in-network provider or enrolling as a supplier means that we have agreed with these payors to provide certain of our tests at negotiated rates, it does not obligate any physicians to order our tests or guarantee that we will receive reimbursement for our tests from these or any other payors at adequate levels. Thus, these payor relationships, or any similar relationships we may establish in the future, may not result in 46 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES acceptable levels of reimbursement for our tests or meaningful increases in our physician customer base. We cannot predict whether, under what circumstances, or at what payment levels payors will cover and reimburse for our tests. If we fail to establish and maintain broad coverage and reimbursement for our tests, our ability to generate increased revenue and grow our test volume and customer base could be limited and our future prospects and our business could suffer. Laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to various federal, state and foreign laws pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including anti-kickback, physician self-referral false claims and physician payment transparency laws and regulations. These laws may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we conduct our operations, including our commercial laboratory operations and how we research, market, sell and distribute any products for which we obtain marketing approval. Such laws include: • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons or entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or certain rebates), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, in return for, either the referral of an individual or the purchase, lease, or order, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease, or order of any good, facility, item or service, for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation; • the federal physician self-referral prohibitions, commonly known as the Stark Law, which generally prohibit entities from billing a patient or the Medicare or Medicaid programs for certain designated health services, including clinical laboratory services, when the physician ordering the service, or any member of such physician’s immediate family, has a financial interest, such as an ownership or investment interest in or compensation arrangement with us, unless the arrangement meets an exception to the prohibition. These prohibitions apply regardless of any intent by the parties to induce or reward referrals or the reasons for the financial relationship and the referral; • the federal false claims laws, including the civil False Claims Act, and civil monetary penalties laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment or approval that are false or fraudulent, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim, or knowingly making or causing to be made a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or Stark Law constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act; • the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which imposes criminal and civil liability for, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, or knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement, in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation; • the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act, which requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the 47 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CMS, information related to payments and other “transfers of value” made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by such healthcare professionals and their immediate family members. Beginning in 2022, applicable manufacturers also will be required to report such information regarding payments and transfers of value provided during the previous year to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse anesthetists and certified nurse-midwives; and • analogous state and foreign laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers and self-pay patients; some state laws that require biotechnology companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government and may require drug and device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; some state laws that require biotechnology companies to report information on the pricing of certain drug products; and some state and local laws that require the registration of sales representatives. In addition, federal government price reporting laws, among other things, require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs. Participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Administration health programs and TRICARE. Similarly, if the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we do business are found to be non-compliant with applicable laws, they may be subject to sanctions, which could indirectly have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of the complex and far-reaching nature of these laws, there can be no assurance that we would not be required to alter one or more of our practices to be in compliance with these laws. Any violations of these laws or regulations could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changes in these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to further change our business practices or subject our existing business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative or regulatory reforms in the United States or the EU may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearances, approvals or certifications for our products or to manufacture, market or distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulation of medical devices. In addition, the FDA may change its clearance and approval policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, or take other actions, which may prevent or delay approval or clearance of our future products under development or impact our ability to modify our currently cleared products on a timely basis. Over the last several years, the FDA has proposed reforms to its 510(k) clearance process, and such proposals could include increased requirements for clinical data and a longer review period, or could make it more difficult for manufacturers to utilize the 510(k) clearance process for their products. 48 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new statutes, regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of any future products or make it more difficult to obtain clearance or approval for, manufacture, market or distribute our products. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require additional testing prior to obtaining clearance or approval; changes to manufacturing methods; recall, replacement or discontinuance of our products; or additional record keeping. In addition, the EU landscape concerning medical devices (including IVDs) is evolving. A new set of two EU regulations have been adopted on April 5, 2017. On May 25, 2017, the EU MDR entered into force, which repeals and replaces the EU Medical Devices Directive and the Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive. As to the EU IVDR, it will become applicable five years after publication (on May 26, 2022). However, on October 14, 2021, the European Commission proposed a “progressive” roll-out of the EU IVDR to prevent disruption in the supply of IVDs. Consequently, if the European Parliament and Council adopt the proposed regulation, the EU IVDR will fully apply on May 26, 2022 but there will be a tiered system extending the grace period for many devices (depending on their risk classification) before they have to be fully compliant with the regulation. Both regulations have been adopted to establish a uniform, transparent, predictable and sustainable regulatory framework across the EU for medical devices (including IVDs) and ensure a high level of safety and health while supporting innovation. The new regulations seek to: • strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; • establish explicit provisions on manufacturers’ responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; • establish explicit provisions on importers’ and distributors’ obligations and responsibilities; • impose an obligation to identify a responsible person who is ultimately responsible for all aspects of compliance with the requirements of the new regulation; • improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through the introduction of a unique identification number, to increase the ability of manufacturers and regulatory authorities to trace specific devices through the supply chain and to facilitate the prompt and efficient recall of medical devices that have been found to present a safety risk; • set up a central database (Eudamed) to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the EU; and • strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices that may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market. These modifications may have an effect on the way we intend to develop our business in the EU and EEA. For example, as a result of the transition towards the new regimes, notified body review times have lengthened, and product introductions could be delayed or canceled. Additionally, only a few notified bodies have been designated for IVDR certification, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. The EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) came into effect on January 1, 2021. The TCA does not specifically refer to medical devices. However, as a result of Brexit, the EU MDR will not be implemented in the United-Kingdom, and previous legislation that mirrored the EU MDR in the UK law has been revoked. The regulatory regime for medical devices in Great Britain (England, Scotland and Wales) will continue to be based on the requirements derived from current EU legislation, and Great Britain may choose to retain regulatory flexibility or align with the EU MDR going forward. CE markings 49 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES will continue to be recognized in the United-Kingdom, and certificates issued by EU-recognized notified bodies will be valid in Great Britain, until June 30, 2023. For medical devices placed on the market in Great Britain after this period, the UK Conformity Assessment (UKCA) marking will be mandatory. In contrast, UKCA marking and certificates issued by UK notified bodies will not be recognized on the EU market. The TCA does provide for cooperation and exchange of information in the area of product safety and compliance, including market surveillance, enforcement activities and measures, standardization related activities, exchanges of officials, and coordinated product recalls (or other similar actions). For medical devices that are locally manufactured but use components from other countries, the “rules of origin” criteria will need to be reviewed. Depending on which countries products will be ultimately sold in, manufacturers may start seeking alternative sources for components if this would allow them to benefit from no tariffs. The rules for placing medical devices on the Northern Ireland market will differ from those in Great Britain. These modifications may have an effect on the way we intend to conduct our business in these countries. Our medical device products are subject to reporting requirements and recalls, even after receiving regulatory clearance, approval or certification, which could harm our reputation, business and financial results. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including the FDA's QSR regulations, which require manufacturers to follow, among other things, design, testing, production, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or “off-label” uses and impose other restrictions on labeling; and medical device reporting regulations that require us to report to FDA or similar governmental bodies in other countries if our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunction in a way that would be reasonably likely to contribute to death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The FDA and similar governmental bodies in other countries have the authority to require the recall of our products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Medical device manufacturers, such as CooperVision and CooperSurgical, may, under their own initiative, recall a product if a reasonable possibility of serious injury or any material deficiency in a device is found, or withdraw a product to improve device performance or for other reasons. The FDA requires that certain classifications of recalls be reported to the FDA within 10 working days after the recall is initiated. Recalls of any of our products may divert managerial and financial resources and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recall could harm our reputation with customers and consumers which could reduce the sales of our products. In addition, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies may implement enforcement actions in connection with a recall which could impair our product offerings and be harmful to our business and financial results. If our manufacturing operations fail to comply with applicable regulations, our manufacturing could be delayed or disrupted, our products could be subject to recall, and sales and profitability could suffer. Our manufacturing operations and processes are required to comply with numerous federal, state and foreign regulatory requirements, including the FDA's cGMP for medical devices, known as the QSR regulations, which govern the procedures related to the design, testing, production processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage, importing, exporting and shipping of our products. We also are subject to state requirements and licenses applicable to manufacturers of medical devices. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our manufacturing facilities and records for periodic unscheduled inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities and comparable agencies in other countries. Failure to comply with QSR requirements and other applicable domestic or international regulatory requirements or to respond to any adverse inspectional observations or product safety issues could result in disruption of our operations and manufacturing delays in addition to, among other things, warning letters, significant fines, 50 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES injunctions, suspension of approvals, seizures, recalls or import holds of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. As a result, any failure to comply with applicable requirements could adversely affect our product sales and profitability. Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements or to receive regulatory clearance, approval or certification for our products or operations could adversely affect our business. Our products and operations are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA, and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. In the United States, the FDA regulates virtually all aspects of medical device and pharmaceutical design, development, testing, manufacture, safety, labeling (including, for example, unique device identifier regulations), storage, recordkeeping, reporting, marketing, promotion, advertising and distribution, as well as product import and export. Our failure to comply with FDA regulations could lead to the imposition of administrative or judicial sanctions, including injunctions, fines, warning letters, suspensions or the loss of regulatory approvals, product recalls, termination of distribution or product seizures. In the most egregious cases, criminal sanctions or closure of our manufacturing facilities are possible. Our medical devices and pharmaceutical products require clearance or approval by the FDA before they can be commercially distributed in the United States and may require similar approvals by foreign regulatory agencies before distribution in foreign jurisdictions. Medical devices and drug products may only be marketed for the indications for which they are approved or cleared. The process of obtaining, renewing and maintaining regulatory clearances and approvals to market a medical device, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming. There can be no assurance that such clearances and approvals will be granted on a timely basis, if at all, and significant delays in the introduction of any new products or product enhancements may occur, which could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. In addition, the FDA and authorities in foreign jurisdictions may change their policies, adopt additional regulations or revise existing regulations, each of which could prevent or delay premarket approval or clearance of our products, increase the cost of compliance, impose additional regulatory requirements on us, or otherwise impact our ability to market our currently approved or cleared products. Modifications and enhancements to medical devices also require a new FDA clearance or approval if they could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness or would constitute a major change in its intended use, design or manufacture. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer's decision. We have made modifications and enhancements to our medical devices that we do not believe require a new clearance or application, but we cannot confirm that the FDA will agree with our decisions. If the FDA requires us to seek clearance or approval for a modification of a previously cleared product for which we have concluded that new clearances or approvals are unnecessary, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and competitive position. We also cannot assure that we will be successful in obtaining clearances or approvals for our modifications, if required. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our product candidates. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, the value of our Company and our operating results may be adversely affected. The FDA’s and other regulatory authorities’ policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent, limit or delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. If we are slow or unable to adapt to changes in existing requirements or the adoption of new requirements or policies, or if we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we may lose any marketing approval 51 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES that we may have obtained and we may not achieve or sustain profitability, which would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We also cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative or executive action, either in the United States or abroad. In order to sell our products in the EU, our products must respectively comply with general safety and performance requirements of the EU MDR and essential requirements of the IVDD. Compliance with these requirements is a prerequisite to be able to affix the European Conformity (CE) Mark to our products, without which they cannot be sold or marketed in the EU. All medical devices placed on the market in the EU must meet the general safety and performance requirements or the essential requirements laid down in the Annexes to the EU MDR and IVDD including that a medical device must be designed and manufactured in such a way that, during normal conditions of use, it is suitable for its intended purpose. Medical devices must be safe and effective and must not compromise the clinical condition or safety of patients, or the safety and health of users and, where applicable, other persons, provided that any risks which may be associated with their use constitute acceptable risks when weighed against the benefits to the patient and are compatible with a high level of protection of health and safety, taking into account the generally acknowledged state of the art. To demonstrate compliance with the essential requirements we must undergo a conformity assessment procedure, which varies according to the type of medical device and its (risk) classification. Except for low-risk medical devices (Class I) or general IVDs, where the manufacturer can self-assess the conformity of its products with the essential or general safety and performance requirements (except for any parts which relate to sterility, metrology or reuse aspects of a medical device), a conformity assessment procedure requires the intervention of a notified body. Notified bodies are independent organizations designated by EU member states to assess the conformity of devices before being placed on the market. A notified body would typically audit and examine a product’s technical dossiers and the manufacturers’ quality system (notified body must presume that quality systems which implement the relevant harmonized standards—ISO 13485:2016 for Quality Management Systems—conform to these requirements). If satisfied that the relevant product conforms to the essential or general safety and performance requirements, the notified body issues a certificate of conformity, which the manufacturer uses as a basis for its own declaration of conformity. The manufacturer may then apply the CE Mark to the device, which allows the device to be placed on the market throughout the EU. If we fail to remain in compliance with applicable EU laws, directives or regulations, we would be unable to continue to affix the CE Mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling them within the EU and EEA. The EU regulatory landscape concerning medical devices (including IVDs) is evolving and the new requirements may have a significant effect on the way we conduct our business in the EU and the EEA (see Risk Factor - " Legislative or regulatory reforms in the United States or the EU may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearances, approvals or certifications for our products or to manufacture, market or distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained "). From January 1, 2021 onwards, the MHRA becomes the sovereign regulatory authority responsible for Great Britain (England, Scotland and Wales) medical device market according to the requirements provided in the Medical Devices Regulations 2002 (SI 2002 No 618, as amended) that sought to give effect to the three pre-existing EU directives governing active implantable medical devices, general medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices whereas Northern Ireland continues to be governed by EU rules according to the Northern Ireland Protocol. Following the end of the Brexit transitional period on January 1, 2021, new regulations require medical devices to be registered with the MHRA (but manufacturers will be given a grace period of four to 12 months to comply with the new registration process) before being placed on the Great Britain market. The MHRA will only register devices where the manufacturer or their UK Responsible Person has a registered place of business in the UK. Manufacturers based outside the UK will need to appoint a UK Responsible Person that has a registered place of business in the UK to register devices with the MHRA in line with the grace periods. By July 1, 2023, in Great Britain, all medical devices will require a UKCA Mark but CE Marks issued by 52 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES EU notified bodies will remain valid until this time. Manufacturers may choose to use the UKCA Mark on a voluntary basis until June 30, 2023. However, UKCA marking will not be recognized in the EU. The rules for placing medical devices on the market in Northern Ireland, which is part of the UK, differ from those in the rest of the UK. Compliance with this legislation is a prerequisite to be able to affix the UKCA Mark to our products, without which they cannot be sold or marketed in Great Britain. Development and marketing of our products are subject to strict governmental regulation by foreign regulatory agencies, and failure to receive, or delay in receiving, foreign qualifications or certifications could have a material adverse effect on our business. In many of the foreign countries in which we market our products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other things, product standards, packaging requirements, labeling requirements, import restrictions, tariff regulations, the reporting of certain payments to health care practitioners in certain markets (for example, the French anti-gift legislation), duties and tax requirements. Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in such countries are similar to those of the FDA. In many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. To date, we have not experienced difficulty in complying with these regulations. However, our failure to receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign qualifications could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased regulatory scrutiny of genetic testing may adversely affect our business through increased costs and risks associated with gaining marketing approvals or certifications and potential decreased demand for our genetic testing services. We offer certain genetic testing services to help identify the likelihood of pregnancy as well as identify possible disorders or diseases of a child prior to birth. Regulatory and legislative proposals addressing oversight of genetic testing have been introduced in the United States, and we expect that new proposals will be introduced from time to time both in the United States and in foreign countries in the future. Although the FDA has statutory authority to assure that medical devices, including IVDs, are safe and effective for their intended uses, the FDA has historically exercised its enforcement discretion and not enforced applicable provisions of the FDCA and regulations with respect to laboratory developed tests (LDTs). We believe our tests fall within the definition of an LDT. As a result, we believe our tests are not currently subject to the FDA’s enforcement of its medical device regulations and the applicable FDCA provisions. However, if there are changes in the FDA’s policy, or if the FDA disagrees that our marketed tests are LDTs or that we are marketing our tests outside the scope of the FDA’s current policy of enforcement discretion, we may become subject to extensive regulatory requirements and may be required to stop selling our existing tests or launching any other tests we may develop and to conduct additional clinical trials or take other actions prior to continuing to market our tests. This could significantly increase the costs and expenses of conducting, or otherwise harm, our business. Legislative proposals addressing the FDA’s oversight of LDT have been introduced by Congress in the past and new legislative proposals may be introduced from time to time in the future. The likelihood that Congress will pass such legislation and the extent to which such legislation may affect the FDA’s ability to enforce its medical device regulations with respect to certain LDT is difficult to predict at this time. If the FDA ultimately begins to enforce its medical device requirements with respect to LDT, our genetic tests may be subject to additional regulatory requirements imposed by the FDA, the nature and extent of which would depend upon applicable final guidance or regulation by the FDA or instruction by Congress. If the FDA imposes significant changes to the regulation of LDT it could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. 53 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Any new FDA enforcement policies affecting LDT or new legislation, regulations such as the EU IVDR regulation may result in increased regulatory burdens on our ability to continue marketing our genetic products and to develop and introduce new products in the future, which could reduce our revenue or increase our costs and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, changes in the way the EU regulates LDTs could result in additional expenses for offering our current and any future tests or possibly delay or suspend development or commercialization of such tests. In the EU, LDTs are exempt from the regulations that govern medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices under certain conditions. The IVDD currently governs the exemptions applicable to LDTs. However, the EU regulatory landscape is evolving, and when the EU IVDR becomes applicable on May 26, 2022, the general safety and performance requirements set out in Annex I will also be applicable to devices manufactured and used only within health institutions. The exemptions provided under the EU IVDR for LDTs remain to be further interpreted and clarified. If our tests do not qualify for an exemption, we may be subject to the full application of the EU IVDR with respect to some or all of our existing, as well as future, tests, and we would be required to expend additional time and resources to complying with the requirements of the EU IVDR. If we fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local and foreign laboratory licensing requirements, we could lose the ability to perform our genetic tests or experience disruptions to our business. We are subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (CLIA), UK Human Fertilization & Embryology Association (HFEA) regulating IVF, a federal law regulating clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. Our clinical laboratories must be certified under CLIA and ISO 15189 in order for us to perform testing on human specimens. In addition, our proprietary tests must also be recognized as part of our accredited programs under CLIA so that we can offer them in our laboratory. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the United States by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. The law also requires us to maintain a state laboratory license to conduct testing in that state. Our laboratories are located in Japan, the United Kingdom and United States, and we must maintain the requisite licenses in each jurisdiction. Any sanction imposed under CLIA, its implementing regulations, or state or foreign laws or regulations governing licensure, or our failure to renew a CLIA certificate, a state license or accreditation, could have a material and adverse effect on our diagnostic testing business, operating results and financial condition. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) also has the authority to impose a wide range of sanctions, including revocation of the CLIA certification along with a bar on the ownership or operation of a CLIA-certified laboratory by any owners or operators of the deficient laboratory. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or required state licensure, we would not be able to operate our clinical laboratory and conduct our tests, in full or in particular states, which would adversely impact our diagnostic testing business, operating results, and financial condition. Pricing pressure from our competitors, customers and changes in third-party coverage and reimbursement may adversely affect demand for our products and negatively impact our operating results. Competition in our industry has increased as a result of new market entrants, new technologies and as more established companies have intensified competitive pricing pressure. As a result of these competitive forces, we believe there will continue to be pricing pressure in the future. Because our CooperSurgical products are generally purchased by hospitals and surgical centers, OB/GYN medical 54 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES offices and fertility clinics, and billed to various third-party payors, changes in the purchasing behavior of such customers or the amount such payors are willing to reimburse our customers for procedures using our products, including as a result of healthcare reform initiatives, could create additional pricing pressure on us. In addition to these competitive forces, we continue to see pricing pressure as our customers introduce new pricing structures into their contracts and agreements, including fixed price formulas, capitated pricing and structured pricing intended to contain healthcare costs. Such trends may adversely affect demand for our products and may drive down the prices we are able to charge for our products, both of which would negatively affect our operating results. Disruptions at the FDA and other government agencies or notified bodies caused by funding shortages or global health concerns could hinder their ability to hire, retain or deploy key leadership and other personnel, or otherwise prevent new or modified products from being developed, cleared or approved or commercialized in a timely manner or at all, which could negatively impact our business. The ability of the FDA, foreign agencies and notified bodies to review and clear, approve or certify new products can be affected by a variety of factors, including government budget and funding levels, statutory, regulatory, and policy changes, the FDA’s ability to hire and retain key personnel and accept the payment of user fees, and other events that may otherwise affect the FDA’s ability to perform routine functions. Average review times at the FDA have fluctuated in recent years as a result. In addition, government funding of other government agencies that fund research and development activities is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Disruptions at the FDA and other agencies may also slow the time necessary for new drugs and medical devices or modifications to cleared or approved drugs and medical devices to be reviewed and/or approved by necessary government agencies, which would adversely affect our business. For example, over the last several years, including for 35 days beginning on December 22, 2018, the U.S. government has shut down several times and certain regulatory agencies, such as the FDA, have had to furlough critical employees and stop critical activities. Separately, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, on March 10, 2020 the FDA announced its intention to postpone most inspections of foreign manufacturing facilities, and on March 18, 2020, the FDA temporarily postponed routine surveillance inspections of domestic manufacturing facilities. Subsequently, on July 10, 2020, the FDA announced its intention to resume certain on-site inspections of domestic manufacturing facilities subject to a risk-based prioritization system. The FDA intends to use this risk-based assessment system to identify the categories of regulatory activity that can occur within a given geographic area, ranging from mission critical inspections to resumption of all regulatory activities. On May 5, 2021, the FDA announced its intention to review its inspectional approaches and to establish an agency-wide FDA Inspectional Affairs Council that will plan and coordinate inspectional activities. Regulatory authorities outside the United States may adopt similar restrictions or other policy measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. If a prolonged government shutdown occurs, or if global health concerns continue to prevent the FDA or other regulatory authorities from conducting their regular inspections, reviews, or other regulatory activities, it could significantly impact the ability of the FDA or other regulatory authorities to timely review and process our regulatory submissions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the EU, notified bodies must be officially designated to certify products and services in accordance with the EU MDR and IVDR. Only a few notified bodies have been designated so far, but the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly slowed down their designation process. Without IVDR designation, notified bodies may not yet start certifying devices in accordance with the new Regulation. As only a few notified bodies have been IVDR-designated, they are facing a heavy workload and their review times have lengthened. Even though a number of notified bodies have been MDR-designated, they are also facing a similar situation. This situation could impact the way we conduct our business in the EU and the EEA. 55 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Ethical, legal and social concerns related to the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our tests. Genetic testing has raised ethical, legal and social issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit or regulate the use of genetic information or genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Similarly, these concerns may lead patients to refuse to use, or physicians to be reluctant to order, genetic tests even if permissible. These and other ethical, legal and social concerns may limit market acceptance and adoption of our tests or reduce the potential markets for our tests, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Tax Increases in our effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Determination of the effective tax rate and evaluation of tax positions is uncertain with rapidly changing enactment, interpretation, and enforcement of tax laws in the US and foreign jurisdictions. When tax matters arise, several years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could increase the effective tax rate, which would have an adverse effect on our operating results. Any resolution of a tax matter may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates or lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by changes in valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations of those laws. We are also subject to the examination of our tax filings by US and foreign tax authorities and the outcome of these examinations could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We operate globally and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results. We are subject to income taxes in the US and foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate due to changes in the mix of earnings and losses in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates. Our tax expense could also be impacted by changes in non-deductible expenses, changes in excess tax benefits of stock-based compensation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and our ability to utilize them, the applicability of withholding taxes and effects from acquisitions. We are subject to tax examinations in multiple jurisdictions. While we regularly evaluate new information that may change our judgment resulting in recognition, derecognition or change in measurement of a tax position taken, there can be no assurance that the final determination of any examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial position. Our tax provision could also be impacted by changes in accounting guidance, and changes in US or foreign tax laws. In addition, government agencies in foreign jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business and the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One example is “base erosion and profit shifting,” where profits are claimed to be earned for tax purposes in low-tax jurisdictions, or payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. The OECD has released several components of its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of international rules for fighting base erosion and profit shifting. As a result, the tax laws in the US and 56 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES other jurisdictions in which we do business could change and any such change could materially and adversely affect our business. We may also be subject to additional tax liabilities and penalties due to changes in non-income based taxes resulting from changes in federal, state or foreign tax laws, changes in taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions, results of tax examinations, settlements or judicial decisions, changes in accounting principles, changes to the business operations, including acquisitions, as well as the evaluation of new information that results in a change to a tax position taken in a prior period. Risks Relating to Interest and Foreign Exchange Rates, Debt and Equity Exchange rate fluctuations and foreign currency hedges could adversely affect our financial results. As a result of our international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial position. Our most significant currency exposures are the British pound sterling, euro and Japanese yen. We expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. To the extent we are unable to materially offset non-functional currency flows, exchange rate fluctuations could have a positive or negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into U.S. dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings and can make it more difficult for our shareholders to understand the relative strengths or weaknesses of the underlying business on a period-over-period comparative basis. Currently we do not enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce our net exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency values relative to our non-functional currency obligations or balances, and although we may enter into these types of agreements in the future, they would not eliminate that risk entirely. We are vulnerable to interest rate risk with respect to our debt. We are subject to interest rate risk in connection with the issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt. In order to maintain a desired mix of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt, from time to time we may use interest rate swap agreements to fix a portion of our variable-rate debt as further described in Note 14. Financial Derivatives and Hedging of the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may not be successful in structuring such swap agreements to manage our risks effectively, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), announced in July 2017 that it will no longer persuade or require banks to submit rates for LIBOR after 2021. In March 2021, the FCA confirmed its intention to stop requiring banks to submit rates required to calculate LIBOR after 2021. However, for U.S. dollar-denominated (USD) LIBOR, only one-week and two-month USD LIBOR will cease to be published after 2021, and all remaining USD LIBOR tenors will continue being published until June 2023. We have multiple debt facilities which bear interest at a variable rate based on the Eurodollar LIBOR rate in effect from time to time. A change or transition away from LIBOR as a common reference rate in the global financial market could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our management continues to monitor the status and discussions regarding LIBOR. We do not expect a material impact on our financial statements related to this transition. 57 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We have now and expect to continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. Our indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; • result in greater interest rate risk and volatility; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds; and • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt, including our obligation to repay our credit facilities under certain circumstances, or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. Our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit plan costs. We sponsor a defined benefit plan for certain employees in the United States. This defined benefit plan is funded with trust assets invested in a diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, early retirement rates, investment returns, discount rates and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plan and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plan. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Note numbers refer to “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for fiscal 2021 compared with fiscal 2020. We discuss our cash flows and current financial condition under “Capital Resources and Liquidity.” For a discussion related to fiscal 2020 compared with fiscal 2019, please refer to Item 7 of Part II, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended October 31, 2020, which was filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on December 11, 2020, and is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov and our Investor Relations website at investor.coopercos.com. Within the tables presented, percentages are calculated based on the underlying whole-dollar amounts and, therefore, may not recalculate exactly from the rounded numbers used for disclosure purposes. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The succeeding sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) may include certain financial measures that are not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These measures, which are referred to as non-GAAP measures, are listed below: • Free Cash Flow - Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. • Constant currency - Constant currency is defined as excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. For a discussion of these measures and the reasons management believes they are useful to investors, refer to “Summary of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. To the extent applicable, this MD&A includes reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, and therefore, may not be comparable among companies. COVID-19 Considerations The World Health Organization categorized the Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a severe global health crisis, along with economic and societal disruptions and uncertainties, which have negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally. As a result of healthcare systems responding to the demands of managing the pandemic, governments around the world imposing measures designed to reduce the transmission of the COVID-19 virus, and individuals responding to the concerns of contracting the COVID-19 virus, many optical practitioners and retailers, hospitals, medical offices and fertility clinics closed their facilities, restricted access, or delayed or canceled patient visits, exams and elective medical procedures, and many customers that have reopened are experiencing reduced patient visits. These factors have had, and in the future may have, an adverse effect on our sales, operating results and cash flows. 66 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations We have taken an active role in addressing the ongoing pandemic’s impact on our employees, suppliers, distribution channels, operations and customers, including taking precautionary measures, such as implementing contingency plans, and making operational adjustments as necessary. We have taken measures to help ensure the safety of our personnel in all our facilities, and we have endeavored and continue to follow recommended actions of government and health authorities to protect our employees worldwide. As of the date of this filing, we have not experienced any significant disruption at our manufacturing facilities. We have had no significant disruption in our access to necessary raw materials and other supplies or with our distribution network; however, we have experienced higher unabsorbed fixed overhead costs, labor inefficiencies, higher cost of production and higher freight charges as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our manufacturing and distribution operations have responded to the impacts related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and we have been able to continue to supply our products around the world without interruption. In the future, we may decide or need to implement additional precautionary measures or operational adjustments as we deem prudent to meet consumer demand or to help further ensure employee safety. We believe that the actions we are taking have enabled us to keep our employees safe and our supply chain intact and will help us emerge from this global pandemic operationally sound and well positioned for long-term growth. The extent to which the global COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions impact our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition will depend on future developments. At this time, future developments are highly uncertain, difficult to predict and largely outside of our control. These include, but are not limited to, the spread, duration and severity of the pandemic outbreak and any subsequent waves of additional outbreaks, including the emergence and spread of variants of the COVID-19 virus, actions taken by governments to contain the pandemic, address its impact or respond to the reduction in global and local economic activity, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. We will continue to closely monitor the developments relating to the COVID-19 pandemic and the responses from governments and private sector participants and their respective impact on our Company and on our customers, suppliers, vendors and business partners. For more information on the risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, refer to Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" herein. Outlook Overall, we remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for the worldwide contact lens and general health care markets. However, the impact, risks and uncertainty relating to the global COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions, as further described in the “COVID-19 Considerations” section above and in the “Risk Factors” section in Part I, Item 1A of this filing, have adversely affected our sales, cash flow and current performance and are likely to further adversely affect our future sales, cash flow and performance. Additionally, other events affecting the economy as a whole, including but not limited to the uncertainty and instability of global markets driven by foreign currency volatility, inflation, changes in tax legislation, debt concerns, the uncertainty following the United Kingdom (UK)'s withdrawal from the EU, changes to existing and new regulations, global trade barriers including additional tariffs and the trend of consolidations within the health care industry could impact our current performance and continue to represent a risk to our future performance. CooperVision - We compete in the worldwide contact lens market with our spherical, toric, multifocal, toric multifocal and myopia management contact lenses offered in a variety of materials including using silicone hydrogel Aquaform ® technology, PC Technology™ and ActivControl ® technology. We believe that there will be lower contact lens wearer dropout rates as technology improves and enhances the wearing experience through a combination of improved designs and materials and the growth of preferred 67 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations modalities such as single-use and monthly wearing options. CooperVision also competes in the myopia management and specialty eye care markets with products such as orthokeratology (ortho-k) and scleral lenses. In November 2019, CooperVision received United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for its MiSight ® 1 day lens, which is the first and only FDA-approved product indicated to slow the progression of myopia in children with treatment initiated between the ages of 8-12 and became available in the United States during fiscal 2020. In August 2021, CooperVision received Chinese National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approval for its MiSight ® 1 day lens for use in China. CooperVision is focused on greater worldwide market penetration using recently introduced products, and we continue to expand our presence in existing and emerging markets, including through acquisitions. CooperVision acquired the following entities during fiscal 2021: • A privately-held UK contact lens manufacturer on April 26, 2021 • A privately-held medical device company on January 19, 2021 CooperVision acquired the following entity during fiscal 2020: • A privately-held US contact lens manufacturer focusing on ortho-k lenses on August 7, 2020 Our ability to compete successfully with a full range of silicone hydrogel products is an important factor to achieving our desired future levels of sales growth and profitability. CooperVision manufactures and markets a wide variety of silicone hydrogel contact lenses. Our single-use silicone hydrogel product franchises, clariti ® and MyDay ® , remain a focus as we expect increasing demand for these products as well as future single-use products as the global contact lens market continues to shift to this modality. Outside of single-use, the Biofinity ® and Avaira Vitality ® product families comprise our focus in the FRP, or frequent replacement product, market which encompasses the 2-week and monthly modalities. Included in this segment are unique products such as Biofinity Energys ® , which helps individuals with digital eye fatigue. CooperSurgical - Our CooperSurgical business competes in the general health care market with a commitment to advancing the health of women, babies and families through its diversified portfolio of products and services focusing on women's health and fertility. CooperSurgical has established its market presence and distribution system by developing products and acquiring companies, products and services that complement its business model. CooperSurgical acquired the following entities during fiscal 2021: • A privately-held medical device company that develops single-use illuminating medical devices on May 3, 2021 • A privately-held medical device company on March 1, 2021 • A privately-held medical device company on February 1, 2021 • A privately-held in vitro fertilization (IVF) cryo-storage software solutions company on December 31, 2020 CooperSurgical acquired the following entity during fiscal 2020: • A privately-held distributor of IVF medical devices and systems on December 13, 2019 On November 6, 2021, subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021, CooperSurgical entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) to acquire Generate Life Sciences, a privately held leading provider of donor egg and sperm for fertility treatments, fertility cryopreservation services and newborn stem cell (cord blood and cord tissue) storage. The aggregate consideration is 68 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations $1.605 billion in cash, subject to adjustment as set forth in the Merger Agreement. The transaction is anticipated to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and is subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval. See Note 15. Subsequent Events of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Capital Resources - At October 31, 2021, we had $95.9 million in unrestricted cash, primarily held outside the United States, and $742.6 million available under our 2020 Revolving Credit Facility. Debt outstanding at October 31, 2021 primarily consisted of: • $850.0 million term loan entered into on April 1, 2020 • $546.1 million drawn under our 2020 Revolving Credit Facility entered into on April 1, 2020 See Note 5. Debt of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. On November 2, 2021, subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021, we entered into a 364-day, $840.0 million, term loan agreement by and among us, the lenders party thereto and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative agent, which matures on November 1, 2022. We used part of the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under the 2020 Revolving Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. See Note 15. Subsequent Events of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Assets Held for Sale On February 2, 2021, CooperVision entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell 50% of the equity interest in a wholly-owned subsidiary that was acquired by CooperVision on January 19, 2021. The closing of this transaction is subject to certain closing conditions including required regulatory approvals. We intend to operate the previously wholly-owned subsidiary as a joint venture with the purchaser of the 50% interest once the transaction is closed. We concluded the substantive terms of the joint venture during the third quarter of fiscal 2021, and as of July 31, 2021, the assets and liabilities of this disposal group were reclassified as held for sale. On August 1, 2021, CooperVision entered into a stockholders agreement, which outlines the terms regarding the operation and management of the joint venture. As of October 31, 2021, we were in the process of finalizing the joint venture related ancillary agreements, and the disposal group continues to be classified as held for sale. We did not record any impairment in fiscal 2021, and this disposal did not qualify as a discontinued operation. See Note 3. Acquisitions and Assets Held for Sale of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Transition from LIBOR The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), announced in July 2017 that it will no longer persuade or require banks to submit rates for LIBOR after 2021. In March 2021, the FCA confirmed its intention to stop requiring banks to submit rates required to calculate LIBOR after 2021. However, for U.S. dollar-denominated (USD) LIBOR, only one-week and two-month USD LIBOR will cease to be published after 2021, and all remaining USD LIBOR tenors will continue being published until June 2023. Further, in March 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting . This guidance provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions affected by reference rate reform if certain criteria are met. We have material contracts that are indexed to LIBOR and are continuing to monitor this activity and evaluate the related risk. We are 69 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continuing to evaluate the scope of impacted contracts and the potential impact. We are also monitoring the developments regarding alternative rates and may amend certain contracts to accommodate those rates if the contract does not already specify a replacement rate. While the notional value of agreements potentially indexed to LIBOR is material, we do not expect a material impact on our financial statements related to this transition. We believe that current cash, cash equivalents and future cash flow from operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital needs, capital expenditures and contractual obligations for at least 12 months from the issuance date of the financial statements included in this annual report. To the extent additional funds are necessary to meet our liquidity needs such as that for acquisitions, share repurchases, cash dividends or other activities as we execute our business strategy, we anticipate that additional funds will be obtained through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, additional equity financings or a combination of these potential sources of funds; however, such financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. 70 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 2021 Compared with 2020 Highlights: 2021 vs. 2020 • Gross margin increased to 67% of net sales compared with 63% in fiscal 2020 • Operating income increased by 62% to $505.8 million from $311.8 million • Interest expense decreased to $23.1 million from $36.8 million due to lower average debt balances and lower interest rates • Diluted earnings per share increased by 1,131% to $59.16 from $4.81 • Operating cash flow increased by 52% to $738.6 million from $486.6 million. Selected Statistical Information – Percentage of Net Sales CooperVision Net Sales The contact lens market has two major product categories: • Spherical lenses including lenses that correct near- and farsightedness uncomplicated by more complex visual defects; and • Toric and multifocal lenses including lenses that, in addition to correcting near- and farsightedness, address more complex visual defects such as astigmatism and presbyopia by adding optical properties of cylinder and axis, which correct for irregularities in the shape of the cornea. 71 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CooperVision Net Sales by Category In the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021: • Toric and multifocal lenses grew primarily through the success of Biofinity toric and multifocal and MyDay toric. • Single-use sphere lenses growth was primarily driven by MyDay, clariti and MiSight lenses. • Non single-use sphere lenses growth was primarily driven by Biofinity and ortho-k lenses. • "Other" products primarily include lens care which represented approximately 2% of net sales in fiscal 2021 and 2020. • Total silicone hydrogel products increased by 21%, representing 76% of net sales in fiscal 2021 compared to 74% in fiscal 2020. • Foreign exchange rates positively impacted sales by approximately $58.9 million and had a negative impact of $2.4 million in fiscal 2020. In fiscal 2021, net sales increased by 14% in constant currency over the prior year. • Sales growth was primarily driven by an increase in the volume of lenses sold across our core portfolio due to a recovery in demand from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Average realized prices by product did not materially influence sales growth. • We expect to continue seeing downward pressure and volatility in certain markets related to net sales if the COVID-19 pandemic continues, as optical retailers and healthcare centers continue to restrict access, and social distancing measures continue. 72 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CooperVision Net Sales by Geography CooperVision competes in the worldwide soft contact lens market and services in three primary regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific. CooperVision's growth in net sales across all regions was primarily attributable to market gains of silicone hydrogel contact lenses and favorable foreign currency impacts. Refer to CooperVision Net Sales by Category above for further discussion. CooperSurgical Net Sales by Category CooperSurgical supplies the family health care market with a diversified portfolio of products and services. Our office and surgical offerings include products that facilitate surgical and non-surgical procedures that are commonly performed primarily by Obstetricians/Gynecologists (OB/GYN) in hospitals, surgical centers, fertility clinics and medical offices. Fertility offerings include highly specialized products and services that target the IVF process, including diagnostics testing with a goal to make fertility treatment safer, more efficient and convenient. The chart below shows the percentage of net sales of office and surgical products and fertility. 73 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In th e fiscal year ended October 31, 2021: • Office and surgical products increased compared to the prior year due to an increase in PARAGARD ® sales compared to the prior year. Further, there was an increase from other office and surgical products such as Uterine Manipulators, Retractors, Closure products, Point-of-Care products and sales from our recent acquisitions, Illuminate and Fetal Pillow ® . • Fertility net sales increased compared to the prior year mainly due to an increase in revenue from fertility consumables, equipment sales, preimplantation genetic testing and sales from our recent acquisition, Embryo Options. • Foreign exchange rates positively impacted sales by approximately $6.2 million and had a negative impact of $2.1 million in the prior year. In fiscal 2021, net sales increased by 30% in constant currency over the prior year. • Sales growth was primarily driven by stronger demand for our products and services as a result of our customers continuing to reopen their health care facilities and medical offices. • We expect to continue seeing downward pressure and volatility in certain markets related to net sales if the COVID-19 pandemic continues, as hospitals and healthcare centers continue to restrict access, and social distancing measures continue. Gross Margin Consolidated Gross Margin increased in fiscal 2021 to 67% compared to 63% of fiscal 2020 primarily driven by favorable product mix and increased sales due to a recovery in demand from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Fiscal 2021 included $29.4 million of costs primarily related to integration and other manufacturing related costs. Fiscal 2020 included $90.1 million of costs primarily related to the COVID-19 pandemic and other manufacturing related costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expense (SGA) CooperVision's SGA increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in distribution costs, general and administrative costs and advertising and marketing activities primarily related to myopia management. CooperVision's SGA in fiscal 2021 included $63.9 million of costs primarily related to the increase in fair value of the contingent consideration of $56.8 million as described in Note 3. Acquisitions and Assets Held for Sale of the Consolidated Financial Statements. CooperVision's SGA in fiscal 2020 included $6.5 million of costs primarily related to acquisition and integration activities. CooperSurgical's SGA increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in selling expenses and advertising and marketing activities. CooperSurgical's SGA in fiscal 2021 included $19.3 million of costs primarily related to the increase in fair value of the contingent consideration of $9.3 million as described in Note 3. Acquisitions and Assets Held for Sale of the Consolidated Financial Statements and acquisition and integration expenses. CooperSurgical's SGA in fiscal 2020 included $19.8 million of costs primarily related to integration expenses and Medical Devices Regulation (MDR) costs. Corporate SGA decreased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to savings from lower professional fees and travel expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 74 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Research and Development Expense (R&D) CooperVision's R&D expense increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to myopia management programs and timing of R&D projects. As a percentage of sales, CooperVision's R&D expense remained relatively flat. CooperVision's R&D activities are primarily focused on the development of contact lenses, manufacturing technology and process enhancements. CooperSurgical's R&D expense decreased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to timing of R&D projects and changes in headcount. CooperSurgical has not paused research programs during the COVID-19 pandemic and has maintained its spend on innovations and increased its spend on key regulatory investment areas to support our long-term objectives. As a percentage of sales, CooperSurgical's R&D expense decreased primarily due to an increase in net sales. CooperSurgical's R&D activities are focused on upgrading existing and developing new products ranging from diagnostics, surgical devices to fertility instruments and solutions. Amortization Expense CooperVision's and CooperSurgical's amortization expense increased in absolute dollars in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets newly acquired through acquisitions. As a percentage of sales, CooperSurgical's amortization expense decreased, primarily due to an increase in net sales. Operating Income CooperVision's operating income increased as a percentage of net sales and in absolute dollars in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to an increase in net sales partially offset by a $56.8 million expense related to the increase in fair value of the contingent consideration as described in Note 3. Acquisitions and Assets Held for Sale of the Consolidated Financial Statements. CooperSurgical's operating income increased as a percentage of net sales and in absolute dollars in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to an increase in net sales and a decrease in R&D expenses. 75 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Corporate operating loss decreased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to savings from lower professional fees and travel expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. On a consolidated basis, operating income increased as a percentage of net sales and in absolute dollars in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to the increase in consolidated net sales. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased as a percentage of net sales and in absolute dollars during fiscal 2021 compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower average debt balances and lower interest rates. Other (Income) Expense, Net On January 19, 2021, CooperVision acquired all of the remaining equity interests of a privately-held medical device company that develops spectacle lenses for myopia management. The fair value remeasurement of our previous equity investment immediately before the acquisition resulted in a gain of $11.5 million recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Foreign exchange loss primarily resulted from the revaluation and settlement of foreign currency-denominated balances. Other income increased in fiscal 2021, primarily due to an increase in defined benefit plan related income and a decrease in losses on minority investments during the year. Provision for Income Taxes The effective tax rates for fiscal 2021 and 2020 were (499.1)% and 10.6%, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to an intra-group transfer of intellectual property, as discussed below, and remeasurement of the related deferred tax assets caused by the UK enactment of a 25% corporate tax rate. The effective tax rate otherwise increased due to changes in the geographical composition of pre-tax earnings, partially offset by changes in foreign earnings subject to US tax. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was lower than the US federal statutory tax rate primarily due to the intra-group transfer, the remeasurement of deferred tax assets, and earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates partially offset by foreign earnings subject to US tax. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 was lower than the US federal statutory rate primarily due to foreign earnings in jurisdictions with lower tax rates partially offset by foreign earnings subject to US tax. In November 2020, we completed an intra-group transfer of certain intellectual property and related assets of the CooperVision business to a UK subsidiary as part of a group restructuring to establish headquarters operations in the UK. Determining fair value involved significant judgment related to future revenue growth, operating margins and discount rates. Income before income taxes resulting from this transfer is eliminated upon consolidation. The transfer resulted in a step-up of the UK tax-deductible basis in the 76 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations intellectual property and goodwill, creating a temporary difference between the book basis and the tax basis of these assets. As a result, we recognized a deferred tax asset of $1,987.9 million, with a corresponding income tax benefit, during the three months ended January 31, 2021. See Note 6. Income Taxes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Share-Based Compensation Plans We grant various share-based compensation awards, including stock options, performance shares and restricted stock units. The share-based compensation and related income tax benefit recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal 2021 was $44.7 million and $5.6 million, respectively, compared to $38.6 million and $4.8 million, respectively, in fiscal 2020. As of October 31, 2021, there was $94.3 million of total unrecognized share-based compensation cost related to non-vested awards. See Note 9. Stock Plans of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We estimate the fair value of each stock option award on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which requires management to make estimates regarding expected option life, stock price volatility and other assumptions. The use of different assumptions could lead to a different estimate of fair value. The expected life of the stock option is based on the observed and expected time to post-vesting forfeiture and/or exercise. Groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. If our assumption for the expected life increased by one year, the fair value of an individual option granted in fiscal 2021 would have increased by approximately $9.60. To determine the stock price volatility, management considers implied volatility from publicly-traded options on the Company's stock at the date of grant, historical volatility and other factors. If our assumption for stock price volatility increased by one percentage point, the fair value of an individual option granted in fiscal 2021 would have increased by approximately $2.62. Employee Stock Purchase Plan On March 18, 2019, the Company received stockholder approval for the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The first offering period began on November 4, 2019 and offerings are generally made on a quarterly basis. The purpose of the ESPP is to provide eligible employees of the Company with the opportunity to acquire shares of common stock at 85% of the market price on the last business day of each offering period by means of accumulated payroll deductions. Payroll deductions will be limited to 15% of the employee’s eligible compensation, not to exceed $21.3 thousand in any one calendar year. The ESPP initially authorized the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of common stock. These shares will be made available from shares of common stock reacquired by the Company as Treasury Stock. During fiscal 2021 and 2020, we issued 17,575 and 11,641 shares to our employees under the ESPP, respectively. At October 31, 2021, the number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the ESPP is 970,784 shares. Total ESPP Share-based compensation recognized during fiscal 2021 and 2020 was $1.0 million and $0.7 million. 77 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY 2021 Highlights • Operating cash flow of $738.6 million compared to $486.6 million in fiscal 2020 • Expenditures for purchases of property, plant and equipment of $214.4 million compared to $310.4 million in fiscal 2020 • Cash payments for acquisitions and others of $235.9 million compared to $54.1 million in fiscal 2020 • Total debt, net of debt issuance cost, at $1.5 billion at the end of fiscal 2021 compared to $1.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2020 • Cash provided by operations of $738.6 million offset by capital expenditures of $214.4 million resulted in positive free cash flow of $524.2 million, up 198% compared to the prior year Comparative Statistics Working Capital The increase in working capital at October 31, 2021 from the end of fiscal 2020 was primarily due to: • decrease in short-term debt of $326.4 million primarily due to repayment of the outstanding balance of the 2020 Term Loan at maturity; • increase in assets held-for-sale of $89.2 million. Refer to Note 3. Acquisitions and Assets Held for Sale for additional information; • increase in trade accounts receivable of $79.9 million primarily due to higher sales and timing of collections; • increase in prepaid expense and other current assets of $26.8 million, • increase in inventories of $15.2 million due to higher sales; • decrease in accounts payable of $14.6 million due to timing of payments, partially offset by: • increase in other current liabilities of $34.9 million; • increase in employee compensation and benefits of $29.7 million; and • decrease in cash and cash equivalents of $20.0 million. At October 31, 2021, our inventory months on hand were 6.8 compared to 6.6 at October 31, 2020. The $15.2 million increase in inventories was primarily due to higher sales, and the buildup of inventory for future product launches. 78 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our days sales outstanding (DSO) was 64 days at October 31, 2021 compared to 60 days at October 31, 2020. The increase in DSO from October 31, 2020 to October 31, 2021 was primarily due to timing of collections. Operating Cash Flow Cash provided by operating activities increased by $252.0 million from $486.6 million in fiscal 2020 to $738.6 million in fiscal 2021. This increase in cash flow provided by operating activities primarily consists of: • increase in net income of $2,706.3 million from a net income of $238.4 million in fiscal 2020 to $2,944.7 million in fiscal 2021; • $68.4 million increase in the net changes in accrued liabilities partially due to impact from adoption of ASC 842, Leases in prior year period and higher customer rebate accruals in current period as a result of higher sales; • $66.1 million increase in the net changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. Refer to Note 3. Acquisitions and Assets Held for Sale for further information; • $53.1 million increase in the net changes in inventories primarily due to higher sales; • $22.4 million increase in the net changes in income tax payable; • $22.2 million increase in net changes in depreciation and amortization, from $287.1 million in fiscal 2020 to $309.3 million in fiscal 2021, partially offset by; • $2501.3 million decrease in the net changes in deferred income taxes. Refer to Note 6. Income Taxes for additional information; • $84.0 million decrease in the net changes in trade receivables primarily due to timing of collections; • $39.2 million decrease in the net changes in accounts payable primarily due to timing of payments; • $28.0 million decrease in the net changes in prepayments and other assets primarily due to the capitalized cloud computing costs and increase in prepaid inventory; and • $27.5 million decrease in impairment and loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, and other. Investing Cash Flow Cash used in investing activities increased by $85.8 million to $450.3 million in fiscal 2021 from $364.5 million in fiscal 2020, primarily due to: • increase of $181.8 million in payments made for acquisitions in fiscal 2021 compared to the prior year period, partially offset by; • decrease of $96.0 million in capital expenditures. Financing Cash Flow Cash used in financing activities increased by $215.9 million to $311.4 million in fiscal 2021 from $95.5 million in fiscal 2020, primarily due to: 79 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations • $1,777.9 million decrease in proceeds from long-term debt, primarily due to funds received from the 2020 Credit Agreement (as defined below); • $314.7 million increase in net repayments of short-term debt, primarily due to the repayments of the 2020 Term Loan Agreement (as defined below), partially offset by; • $1,819.9 million decrease in repayments of long-term debt, primarily related to repayments of funds from the 2020 Credit Agreement (as defined below) in fiscal 2021, and termination of the 2020 Term Loan Agreement (as defined below), the 2017 Term Loan Agreement and the 2016 Credit Agreement in fiscal 2020. On April 1, 2020, the Company entered into a Revolving Credit and Term Loan Agreement (the 2020 Credit Agreement), among the Company and KeyBank National Association, as administrative agent. The 2020 Credit Agreement provides for (a) a multicurrency revolving credit facility (the 2020 Revolving Credit Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $1.29 billion and (b) a term loan facility (the 2020 Term Loan Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $850.0 million, each of which, unless terminated earlier, mature on April 1, 2025. In addition, the Company has the ability from time to time to request an increase to the size of the revolving credit facility or establish one or more new term loans under the term loan facility in an aggregate amount up to $1.605 billion, subject to the discretionary participation of the lenders. On October 16, 2020, the Company entered into a 364-day, $350.0 million, term loan agreement (the 2020 Term Loan Agreement) by and among the Company, the lenders party thereto and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative agent, which matured on October 15, 2021. At maturity, outstanding amounts under this agreement were fully repaid using borrowings under the 2020 Revolving Credit Facility. On November 2, 2021, subsequent to the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021, the Company entered into a 364-day, $840.0 million, term loan agreement by and among the Company, the lenders party thereto and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as administrative agent, which matures on November 1, 2022. The Company used part of the funds to partially repay outstanding borrowings under the 2020 Revolving Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. See Note 15. Subsequent Events of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The following is a summary of the maximum commitments and the net amounts available to us under different credit facilities as of October 31, 2021: The 2020 Credit Agreement contains customary restrictive covenants, as well as financial covenants that require the Company to maintain a certain Total Leverage Ratio and Interest Coverage Ratio. As defined, in the 2020 Credit Agreement, we are required to maintain an Interest Coverage Ratio of at least 3.00 to 1.00, and a Total Leverage Ratio of no higher than 3.75 to 1.00. At October 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the Interest Coverage Ratio at 43.29 to 1.00 and the Total Leverage Ratio at 1.38 to 1.00. The Company, after considering the potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, expects to remain in compliance with its financial maintenance covenant and meet its debt service obligations for at least the twelve months following the date of issuance of these financial statements. See Note 5. Debt of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 80 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Considering recent market conditions and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic crisis, we have re-evaluated our operating cash flows and cash requirements and continue to believe that current cash, cash equivalents, future cash flow from operating activities and cash available under our 2020 Credit Agreement will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including working capital needs, capital expenditures and contractual obligations for at least 12 months from the issuance date of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this quarterly report. To the extent additional funds are necessary to meet our liquidity needs such as that for acquisitions, share repurchases, cash dividends or other activities as we execute our business strategy, we anticipate that additional funds will be obtained through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, additional equity financings or a combination of these potential sources of funds; however, such financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Share Repurchases In December 2011, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the 2012 Share Repurchase Program and through subsequent amendments, the most recent in March 2017, the total repurchase authorization was increased from $500.0 million to $1.0 billion of the Company's common stock. The program has no expiration date and may be discontinued at any time. Purchases under the 2012 Share Repurchase Program are subject to a review of the circumstances in place at the time and may be made from time to time as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The Company's share repurchases during the fiscal years ended October 31, 2021 and 2020 are as follows: At October 31, 2021, $334.8 million remained authorized for repurchase under the program. Dividends In fiscal 2021 and 2020, the Company paid a semiannual dividend of 3 cents per share: $1.5 million or 3 cents per share on February 9, 2021 to stockholders of record on January 22, 2021; $1.5 million or 3 cents per share on August 11, 2021 to stockholders of record on July 27, 2021; $1.5 million or 3 cents per share on February 10, 2020 to stockholders of record on January 23, 2020; $1.5 million or 3 cents per share on August 7, 2020 to stockholders of record on July 23, 2020. 81 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS As of October 31, 2021, we had the following contractual obligations and commercial commitments: (1) As of October 31, 2021, we had $112.2 million of income tax liabilities related to the one-time transition tax that resulted from the enactment of the 2017 US Tax Act, which is payable in annual installments through fiscal 2026. The installment for fiscal 2021 is classified as a current income tax payable on our consolidated balance sheet. We are unable to reliably estimate the timing of future payments related to uncertain tax positions and have excluded $39.2 million of long-term income taxes payable from the table above. See Note 6. Income Taxes of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) Purchase obligations consist of agreements to purchase goods and services that are enforceable and legally binding and includes obligations for inventory, capital expenditures and other operating expense commitments. (3) The expected future benefit payments for our Retirement Income Plan through 2031 are disclosed in Note 10. Employee Benefits of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summary of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The non-GAAP financial measures that may be included in this MD&A and the reasons management believes they are useful to investors are described below. These measures should be considered supplemental in nature and are not intended to be a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these measures may not be the same as similarly named measures presented by other companies. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes free cash flow is useful for investors as an additional measure of liquidity because it represents cash that is available to grow the business, make strategic acquisitions, repay debt, buyback common stock or fund the dividend. We use free cash flow internally to understand, manage, make operating decisions and evaluate our business. In addition, we use free cash flow to help plan and forecast future periods. 82 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Constant currency is defined as excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. In order to assist with the assessment of how our underlying businesses performed, we compare the percentage change in net sales from one period to another, excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. To present this information, current period revenue for entities reporting in currencies other than the United States dollar are converted into United States dollars at the average foreign exchange rates for the corresponding period in the prior year. Accounting Pronouncements Information regarding new accounting pronouncements is included in Note 1. Accounting Policies of the Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates and Critical Accounting Policies Management estimates and judgments are an integral part of financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the critical accounting policies described in this section address the more significant estimates required of management when preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP. We consider an accounting estimate critical if changes in the estimate may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We believe that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and resulting balances are reasonable; however, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustment to these balances in future periods. The World Health Organization categorized the COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a severe global health crisis, along with economic and societal disruptions and uncertainties, which have negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally. As a result of healthcare systems responding to the demands of managing the pandemic, governments around the world imposing measures designed to reduce the transmission of the COVID-19 virus, and individuals responding to the concerns of contracting the COVID-19 virus, many optical practitioners and retailers, hospitals, medical offices and fertility clinics closed their facilities, restricted access, or delayed or canceled patient visits, exams and elective medical procedures, and many customers that have reopened are experiencing reduced patient visits. These factors have had, and in the future may have, an adverse effect on our sales, operating results and cash flows. The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of net sales and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates particularly as it relates to estimates reliant on forecasts and other assumptions reasonably available to the Company and the uncertain future impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic disruptions impact our business and financial results will depend on future developments including, but not limited to, the continued spread, duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic; the occurrence, spread, duration and severity of any subsequent wave or waves of outbreaks, including the emergence and spread of variants of the COVID-19 virus; the actions taken by the U.S. and foreign governments to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, address its impact or respond to the reduction in global and local economic activity; the occurrence, duration and severity of a global, regional or national recession, depression or other sustained adverse market event; the impact of the developments described above on our customers and suppliers; and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. The accounting matters assessed included, but were not limited to: • allowance for doubtful accounts and credit losses • the carrying value of inventory 83 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations • the carrying value of goodwill and other long-lived assets There was not a material impact to the above estimates in our Consolidated Financial Statements for fiscal 2021 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We continually monitor and evaluate the estimates used as additional information becomes available. Adjustments will be made to these provisions periodically to reflect new facts and circumstances that may indicate that historical experience may not be indicative of current and/or future results. Our future assessment of the magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as other factors, could result in material changes to the estimates and material impacts to our Consolidated Financial Statements in future reporting periods. Our critical accounting policies include: • Revenue recognition - We recognize revenue from product sales when obligations under the terms of a contract with the customer are satisfied; generally, this occurs with the transfer of control of the goods to customers and/or when services are rendered. Our payment terms are typically between 30 to 120 days. Provisions for certain rebates, sales incentives, volume discounts, contractual pricing allowances and product returns are accounted for as variable consideration and recorded as a reduction in sales. Product discounts, including certain rebates, sales incentives, and volume discounts are granted based on terms of the arrangement with direct distribution customers and at times the indirect end consumer. We evaluate contractual terms, historical experience, and perform internal analysis to estimate total product discounts at the time revenue is recognized. Our PARAGARD program is subject to Medicaid rebates, which are estimated at the time of sale based upon the difference between current retail pricing and contractual Medicaid pricing and an estimate of the number of units that will be sold to Medicaid patients, which is informed by historical trends of claim history. Sales returns are estimated and recorded based on historical sales return data. Promotional programs, such as cooperative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the same period as related sales. Reasonably likely changes to assumptions used to calculate the accruals for rebates, sales incentives, volume discounts, contractual pricing allowances and product returns are not anticipated to have a material effect on the financial statements. We currently disclose the impact of changes to assumptions in the quarterly or annual filing in which there is a material financial statement impact. • Valuation of goodwill - We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually during the fiscal third quarter and when an event occurs or circumstances change such that it is reasonably possible that impairment may exist. We account for goodwill, evaluate and test goodwill balances for impairment in accordance with related accounting standards. We test goodwill impairment in accordance with ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment . We perform a qualitative assessment to test each reporting unit's goodwill for impairment. Qualitative factors considered in this assessment include industry and market considerations, overall financial performance and other relevant events and factors affecting each reporting unit. Based on our qualitative assessment, if we determine that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not to be less than its carrying amount, the fair value of a reporting unit will be compared with its carrying amount and an impairment charge will be recognized for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit. A reporting unit is the level of reporting at which goodwill is tested for impairment. Goodwill impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment. If our common stock price trades below book value per share, there are changes in market conditions or a future downturn in our business, or a future goodwill impairment test indicates an impairment of our goodwill, we may have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill that 84 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations could be material and could adversely affect our results of operations in the period recognized and also adversely affect our total assets and stockholders' equity. • Business combinations - We routinely consummate business combinations. Results of operations for acquired companies are included in our consolidated results of operations from the date of acquisition. We recognize separately from goodwill, the identifiable assets acquired, including acquired in-process research and development, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date fair values as defined by accounting standards related to fair value measurements. Key assumptions routinely utilized in allocation of purchase price to intangible assets include projected financial information such as revenue projections for companies acquired. As of the acquisition date, goodwill is measured as the excess of consideration given, over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Direct acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. • Income taxes - We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and for tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we must estimate our income tax expense for each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires significant management judgments and involves estimating our current tax exposures in each jurisdiction including the impact, if any, of additional taxes resulting from tax examinations as well as judging the recoverability of deferred tax assets. To the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our estimation of future taxable income in each jurisdiction, a valuation allowance is established. Tax exposures can involve complex issues and may require an extended period to resolve. Frequent changes in tax laws in each jurisdiction complicate future estimates. To determine the tax rate, we use the full-year income and the related income tax expense in each jurisdiction. We update the estimated effective tax rate for the effect of significant unusual items as they are identified. Changes in the geographic mix or estimated level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective tax rate, and such changes could be material. We file income tax returns in all jurisdictions in which we operate. We record a liability for uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns that we have determined are not more-likely-than-not realizable. Our financial statements reflect expected future tax consequences of such positions presuming the taxing authorities' full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts. These tax reserves have been established based on management's assessment as to the potential exposure attributable to our uncertain tax positions as well as interest and penalties attributable to these uncertain tax positions. All tax reserves are analyzed quarterly and adjustments are made as events occur that result in changes in judgment. 85 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Trademarks Aquaform ® , Avaira ® , Avaira Vitality ® , Biofinity ® , Biofinity Energys ® , MyDay ® , MiSight ® , ActivControl ® , Proclear ® and Biomedics ® are registered trademarks of The Cooper Companies, Inc., its affiliates and/or subsidiaries. PC Technology™ and FIPS™ are trademarks of The Cooper Companies, Inc., its affiliates and/or subsidiaries. The clariti ® mark is a registered trademark of The Cooper Companies, Inc., its affiliates and/or subsidiaries worldwide except in the United States where the use of clariti ® is licensed. PARAGARD ® , Mara ® and Fetal Pillow ® are registered trademarks of CooperSurgical, Inc. 86 THE COOPER COMPANIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES