********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. These Risk Factors should be carefully reviewed in conjunction with Management ' s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in of this Report. 8 Business and Operating Risks We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our U.S. and Canadian operations. Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our U.S. and Canadian operations, which comprised 87% and 84% of net sales and operating income in 2023. Within the U.S., we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 27% of U.S. net sales in 2023. Our California market, in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other domestic markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our U.S. operations, particularly in California, and our Canadian operations could arise from, among other things: slow growth or declines in comparable warehouse sales (comparable sales); negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; failing to meet targets for warehouse openings; cannibalizing existing locations with new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets, including higher levels of unemployment and depressed home values; and failing to consistently provide high quality and innovative new products. We may be unsuccessful implementing our growth strategy, including expanding our business in existing markets and new markets, and integrating acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property and build or lease new warehouses and depots. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses and depots, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses or depots at specific sites and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations, may impact our ability to find suitable locations and increase the cost of sites and of constructing, leasing and operating warehouses and depots. We also may have difficulty negotiating leases or purchase agreements on acceptable terms. In addition, certain jurisdictions have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would prevent or restrict the operation or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us. Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors may affect our ability to timely build or lease and operate new warehouses and depots, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and profitability. We seek to expand in existing markets to attain a greater overall market share. A new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and adversely affect their comparable sales performance, member traffic, and profitability. We intend to continue to open warehouses in new markets. Associated risks include difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators, our lesser familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. Entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. We cannot ensure that new warehouses and new e-commerce websites will be profitable and future profitability could be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. We have made and may continue to make investments and acquisitions to improve the speed, accuracy and efficiency of our supply chains and delivery channels. The effectiveness of these investments can be less predictable than opening new locations and might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired rates of return. Our failure to maintain membership growth, loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Membership loyalty and growth are essential to our business. The extent to which we achieve growth in our membership base, increase the penetration of Executive membership, and sustain high renewal rates materially influences our profitability. Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact comparable sales, diminish member trust, and reduce renewal rates and, accordingly, net sales and membership fee revenue, negatively impacting our results of operations. We sell many products under our Kirkland Signature brand. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of these products is essential to developing and maintaining member loyalty. These products also generally carry higher margins than national brand products and represent a growing portion of our overall sales. If the Kirkland Signature brand experiences a loss of member acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margin results could be adversely affected. Disruptions in merchandise distribution or processing, packaging, manufacturing, and other facilities could adversely affect sales and member satisfaction. We depend on the orderly operation of the merchandise receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. We also rely upon processing, packaging, manufacturing and other facilities to support our business, which includes the production of certain private-label items. Although we believe that our operations are efficient, disruptions due to fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, pandemics or other extreme weather conditions or catastrophic events, labor issues or other shipping problems may result in delays in the production and delivery of merchandise to our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our members. Our e-commerce operations depend heavily on third-party and in-house logistics providers and is negatively affected when these providers are unable to provide services in a timely fashion. We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services that our members will desire. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to identify timely or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to environmental, social and governance practices) and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns, or we may experience out-of-stock positions and delivery delays, which could result in higher costs, both of which would reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on net sales, gross margin and operating income. Availability and performance of our information technology (IT) systems are vital to our business. Failure to successfully execute IT projects and have IT systems available to our business would adversely impact our operations. IT systems play a crucial role in conducting our business. These systems are utilized to process a very high volume of transactions, conduct payment transactions, track and value our inventory and produce reports critical for making business decisions. Failure or disruption of these systems could have an adverse impact on our ability to buy products and services from our suppliers, produce goods in our manufacturing plants, move the products in an efficient manner to our warehouses and sell products to our members. We are undertaking large technology and IT transformation projects. The failure of these projects could adversely impact our business plans and potentially impair our day to day business operations. Given the high volume of transactions we process, it is important that we build strong digital resiliency to prevent disruption from events such as power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, viruses, internal or external security breaches, errors by employees, and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes. Any debilitating failure of our critical IT systems, 10 data centers and backup systems would require significant investments in resources to restore IT services and may cause serious impairment in our business operations including loss of business services, increased cost of moving merchandise and failure to provide service to our members. We are currently making substantial investments in maintaining and enhancing our digital resiliency and failure or delay in these projects could be costly and harmful to our business. Failure to deliver IT transformation efforts efficiently and effectively could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Insufficient IT capacity could also impact our capacity for timely, complete and accurate financial and non-financial reporting required by law. We are required to maintain the privacy and security of personal and business information amidst multiplying threat landscapes and in compliance with privacy and data protection regulations globally. Failure to do so could damage our business, including our reputation with members, suppliers and employees, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and become subject to litigation and regulatory action. Increased security threats and more sophisticated cyber misconduct pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. We rely upon IT systems and networks, some of which are managed by or belong to third parties, including suppliers, partners, vendors, and service providers. Additionally, we collect, store and process sensitive information relating to our business, members, employees, and other third parties. Operating these IT systems and networks, and processing and maintaining this data, in a secure manner, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Increased remote work has also increased the possible attack surfaces. Attempts to gain unauthorized access to systems, networks and data, both ours and third parties with whom we work, are increasing in frequency and sophistication, and in some cases, these attempts are successful. Cybersecurity attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crimes and advanced persistent threats. Phishing attacks have emerged as particularly prominent, including as vectors for ransomware attacks, which have increased in breadth and frequency. While we train our employees as part of our security efforts, that training cannot be completely effective. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our data. Our IT systems and networks, or those managed by third parties such as cloud providers or suppliers that otherwise host or have access to confidential information, periodically have vulnerabilities, which may go unnoticed for a period of time. Our logging capabilities, or the logging capabilities of third parties, are also not always complete or sufficiently detailed, affecting our ability to fully investigate and understand the scope of security events. While our cybersecurity and compliance efforts seek to mitigate such risks, there can be no guarantee that the actions and controls we and our third-party service providers have implemented and are implementing, will be sufficient to protect our systems, information or other property. The potential impacts of a cybersecurity attack include reputational damage, litigation, government enforcement actions, penalties, disruption to systems and operations, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, corruption of data, diminution in the value of our investment in IT systems and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. This could adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition and, critically in light of our business model, loss of member confidence. Further, the insurance coverage we maintain and indemnification arrangements with third parties may be inadequate to cover claims, costs, and liabilities relating to cybersecurity incidents. In addition, data we collect, store and process is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, California Consumer Privacy Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and other privacy and cybersecurity laws across the various states and around the globe, which may carry significant potential penalties for noncompliance. We are subject to payment-related risks. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including select credit and debit cards, cash and checks, co-brand cardholder rebates, Executive member 2% reward certificates, and our shop card. As we offer 11 new payment options to our members, we may be subject to additional rules, regulations, compliance requirements, and higher fraud losses. For certain payment methods, we pay interchange and other related acceptance fees, along with additional transaction processing fees. We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services for credit and debit cards and our shop card. It could disrupt our business if these parties become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to fee increases by these service providers. We must comply with evolving payment card association and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers. For example, we are subject to Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which contain compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. If our internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card re-issuance costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept card payments from our members, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our failure to offer payment methods desired by our members could create a competitive disadvantage. We might sell products that cause illness or injury to our members, harm to our reputation, and expose us to litigation. If our merchandise, including food and prepared food products for human consumption, drugs, children ' s products, pet products and durable goods, do not meet or are perceived not to meet applicable safety or labeling standards or our members ' expectations, we could experience lost sales, increased costs, litigation or reputational harm. The sale of these items involves the risk of illness or injury to our members. Such illnesses or injuries could result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation phases, or faulty design. Our suppliers are generally contractually required to comply with product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with safety and other standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption or use of our products will not cause illness or injury or that we will not be subject to claims, lawsuits, or government investigations relating to such matters, resulting in costly product recalls and other liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential members and our corporate and brand image, and these effects could be long-term. If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omnichannel experience for our members, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing member expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our members are increasingly using mobile phones, tablets, computers, and other devices to shop and to interact with us through social media. We are making investments in our websites and mobile applications. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant member-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our employees, including members of our senior management and other key operations, IT, merchandising and administrative personnel. Failure to identify and implement a succession plan for senior management could negatively impact our business. We must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to 12 numerous internal and external factors, including regulatory changes, prevailing wage rates, union relations and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by our insurance. Claims for employee health care benefits, workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage, directors’ and officers’ liability, vehicle liability, inventory loss, and other exposures are funded predominantly through self-insurance. Insurance coverage is maintained for certain risks to limit exposures arising from very large losses. The types and amounts of insurance may vary from time to time based on our decisions with respect to risk retention and regulatory requirements. Significant claims or events, regulatory changes, a substantial rise in costs of health care or costs to maintain our insurance or the failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain specific coverages for catastrophic property losses, we still bear a significant portion of the risk of losses incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption. Such losses could materially impact our cash flows and results of operations. Market and Other External Risks We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, sites, products and services and in other important respects with a wide range of local, regional and national wholesalers and retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries, including other warehouse-club operators, supermarkets, supercenters, online retailers, gasoline stations, hard discounters, department and specialty stores and operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise. Such retailers and warehouse club operators compete vigorously and in a variety of ways, including pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, store hours, and the attractiveness and ease of use of websites and mobile applications. The evolution of retailing in online and mobile channels has improved the ability of customers to comparison shop, which has enhanced competition. Some competitors have greater financial resources and technology capabilities, better access to merchandise, and greater market penetration than we do. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, changes in the retail markets or customer expectations could result in lost market share and negatively affect our financial results. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Higher energy and gasoline costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, foreign-currency exchange rates, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes and uncertainties related to government fiscal, monetary and tax policies including changes in interest rates, tax rates, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions, sovereign debt crises, pandemics and other health crises, and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services, require a change in product mix, or impact the cost of or ability to purchase inventory. Additionally, trade-related actions in various countries, particularly China and the United States, have affected the costs of some of our merchandise. The degree of our exposure is dependent on (among other things) the type of goods, rates imposed, and timing of the tariffs. The impact to our net sales and gross margin is influenced in part by our merchandising and pricing strategies in response to potential cost increases. Higher tariffs could adversely impact our results. 13 Prices of certain commodities, including gasoline and consumable goods used in manufacturing and our warehouse retail operations, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, inflationary pressures, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, taxes and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices and our ability and desire to pass them through to our members may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors could also increase our merchandise costs and selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial results. General economic conditions can also be affected by events like the outbreak of hostilities, including but not limited to the Ukraine conflict, or acts of terrorism. Inflationary factors such as increases in merchandise costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adjust prices to sufficiently offset the effect of cost increases without negatively impacting consumer demand. Suppliers may be unable to timely supply us with quality merchandise at competitive prices or may fail to adhere to our high standards, resulting in adverse effects on our business, merchandise inventories, sales, and profit margins. We depend heavily on our ability to purchase quality merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. As the quantities we require continue to grow, we have no assurances of continued supply, appropriate pricing or access to new products, and any supplier has the ability to change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to out-of-stock positions causing a loss of sales and profits. We buy from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers and importers. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key suppliers could negatively affect us. We may not be able to develop relationships with new suppliers, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive. Because of our efforts to adhere to high-quality standards for which available supply may be limited, particularly for certain food items, the large volumes we demand may not be consistently available. Our efforts to secure supply could lead to commitments that prove to be unsuccessful in the short and long-term. Our suppliers (and those they depend upon for materials and services) are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, public health emergencies, supply constraints and general economic and political conditions and other risks similar to those we face that could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise. One or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, packaging, legal, regulatory, labor, environmental or animal welfare standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might not be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure could lead to recalls and litigation and otherwise damage our reputation and our brands, increase costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. During 2023, our international operations, including Canada, generated 27% and 34% of our net sales and operating income. Our international operations have accounted for an increasing portion of our warehouses, and we plan to continue international growth. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we translate the financial statements of our international operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. Future fluctuations in exchange rates that are unfavorable to us may adversely affect the financial performance of our Canadian and Other International operations and have a corresponding adverse period-over-period effect on our results of operations. As we continue to expand internationally, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may increase. A portion of the products we purchase is paid for in a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods are sold. Currency fluctuations may increase our merchandise costs and may not be passed on to members and thus may adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, or other catastrophic events could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, including those impacted by climate change, such as hurricanes, typhoons, floods, earthquakes, wildfires, droughts; acts of terrorism or violence, including active shooter situations; and energy shortages; particularly in California or Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to our properties, limitations on store operating hours, less frequent visits by members to physical locations, the temporary closure of warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office facilities, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, disruptions to our IT systems, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local or overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods to or from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our warehouses or depots, and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to procure products. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pandemics and other health crises, including COVID-19, could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in many respects. The emergence, severity, magnitude and duration of global or regional health crises are uncertain and difficult to predict. A pandemic, such as COVID-19, could affect certain business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, availability of labor, access to inventory, supply chain operations, our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among other things. Other factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: • The severity and duration of pandemics; • Evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures; • Changes in labor markets affecting us and our suppliers; • Unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time and other resources to the pandemic response; • The pace of post-pandemic recovery; • The long-term impact of the pandemic on our business, including consumer behaviors; and • Disruption and volatility within the financial and credit markets. Factors associated with climate change could adversely affect our business. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity in our distribution and warehouse operations. Government regulations limiting carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental restrictions may increase compliance and merchandise costs, and other regulation affecting energy inputs could materially affect our profitability. As the economy transitions to lower carbon intensity we cannot guarantee that we will make adequate investments or successfully implement strategies that will effectively achieve our climate-related goals, which could lead to negative perceptions among members and other stakeholders and result in reputational harm. Climate change, extreme weather conditions, wildfires, droughts and rising sea levels could affect our ability to procure commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience. We also sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be impacted by concerns about climate change and increased regulations. More stringent fuel economy standards, changing public policies aimed at increasing the adoption of zero-emission and alternative fuel vehicles and other regulations related to climate change, and evolving consumer preferences will affect our future operations and will adversely impact certain elements of our profitability and require significant capital expenditures. 15 Failure to meet financial market expectations could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. We believe that the price of our stock currently reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our warehouse and e-commerce comparable sales growth rates, membership renewal rates, new member sign-ups, gross margin, earnings, earnings per share, new warehouse openings, or dividend or stock repurchase policies could cause the price of our stock to decline. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. At the end of 2023, we operated 270 warehouses outside of the U.S. (31% of all warehouse locations), and we plan to continue expanding our international operations. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many similar to those we face in the U.S., certain of which are beyond our control. These factors include political and economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations, policy changes, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may impact international operations include foreign trade (including tariffs and trade sanctions), monetary and fiscal policies and the laws and regulations of the U.S. and foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities in locations which have been historically less stable than the U.S. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences, and difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. New reporting obligations globally are increasing the cost and complexity of doing business. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations we apply to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including self-insurance liabilities, are highly complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in rules or interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance and have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and otherwise. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately and to prepare financial statements within required time periods could be adversely affected, which could subject us to litigation or investigations requiring management resources and payment of legal and other expenses, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements and adversely impact our stock price. Uncertainties around our developing systems concerning controls for non-financial reporting also create risks. Changes in tax rates, new U.S. or foreign tax legislation, and exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection and remittance obligations in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, at any point in time, we may be under examination for value 16 added, sales-based, payroll, product, import or other non-income taxes. We may recognize additional tax expense, be subject to additional tax liabilities, or incur losses and penalties, due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, assessments by authorities and interpretations related to tax, including tax rules in various jurisdictions. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, changes in the enacted tax rates or adverse outcomes in tax audits, including transfer pricing disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in or failure to comply with regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and other environmental matters (such as recycling and extended producer responsibility requirements) could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide and increasingly broad array of federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and other environmental matters. Failure to comply with these laws could result in harm to our members, employees or others, significant costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operations at our facilities require the treatment and disposal of wastewater, stormwater and agricultural and food processing wastes, the use and maintenance of refrigeration systems, including ammonia-based chillers, noise, odor and dust management, the operation of mechanized processing equipment, and other operations that potentially could affect the environment and public health and safety. Failure to comply with current and future environmental, health and safety standards could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, illness or injury of our employees, and claims or lawsuits related to such illnesses or injuries, and temporary closures or limits on the operations of facilities. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits and some of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires compliance with many laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings and lead to damage awards, fines, penalties, and remediation costs. We are or may become involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, including grand jury investigations, government and agency investigations, and consumer, employment, tort, unclaimed property laws, and other litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these proceedings, audits, unclaimed property laws, and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management ' s attention and resources.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations of VICI Properties Inc. and VICI Properties L.P. for the year ended December 31, 2022 should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our business and growth strategies, statements regarding the industry outlook and our expectations regarding the future performance of our business contained herein are forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” You should also review the section in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by such forward-looking statements . OVERVIEW We are an owner and acquirer of experiential real estate assets across leading gaming, hospitality, entertainment and leisure destinations. Our geographically diverse portfolio currently consists of 49 gaming facilities in the United States and Canada, including Caesars Palace Las Vegas, MGM Grand and the Venetian Resort, three of the most iconic entertainment facilities on the Las Vegas Strip. Our entertainment facilities are leased to leading brands that seek to drive consumer loyalty and value with guests through superior services, experiences, products and continuous innovation. Across over 124 million square feet, our well-maintained properties are curren tly located across urban, destination and drive-to markets in fifteen states and Canada, contain approximately 59,300 hotel rooms and feature over 450 restaurants, bars, nightclubs, and sportsbooks. Our portfolio also includes certain real estate debt investments, most of which we have originated for strategic reasons in connection with transactions that either do or may provide the potential to convert our investment into the ownership of certain of the underlying real estate in the future. In addition, we own approximately 34 acres of undeveloped or underdeveloped land on and adjacent to the Las Vegas Strip that is leased to Caesars, which we may look to monetize as appropriate. We also own four championship golf courses located near certain of our properties, two of which are in close proximity to the Las Vegas Strip. We conduct our operations as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on our taxable income to the extent that we annually distribute all of our net taxable income to stockholders and maintain our qualification as a REIT. We believe our election of REIT status, combined with the income generation from the Lease Agreements and loans, will enhance our ability to make distributions to our stockholders, providing investors with current income as well as long-term growth, subject to market conditions and the national and international macroeconomic environment. We conduct our real property business through our operating partnership, VICI OP, and our golf course business through a TRS, VICI Golf. Key 2022 Highlights Operating Results • Collected 100% of rent in cash. • Total revenues increased 72.3% year-over-year to $2,600.7 million. • Net income attributable to common stockholders increased 10.2% year-over-year to  $1,117.6 million, and net income attributable to common stockholders per diluted share decreased 27.7% to $1.27, primarily due to the impact of our CECL allowance and an increased weighted average share count. • AFFO increased 61.7% year-over-year to $1,693.8 million and AFFO per diluted share increased 6.1% to $1.93. Significant Achievements • Announced and originated over $4.5 billion in transaction activity, including: ◦ the acquisition of Blackstone Real Estate Investment Trust, Inc.’s (“BREIT”) interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV for $2,758.8 million, inclusive of our assumption of BREIT’s pro-rata share of the $3.0 billion CMBS debt, which upon closing on January 9, 2023 added $151.6 million of annualized rent to our portfolio; ◦ the acquisition of the Fitz Casino & Hotel and WaterView Casino & Hotel from Foundation Gaming for $293.4 million, which upon closing on December 22, 2022 added $24.3 million of annualized rent to our portfolio; 48 ◦ the acquisition of Rocky Gap Casino Resort for $203.9 million, which remains pending and subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval, and upon closing will add $15.5 million of annualized rent to our portfolio through the Century Master Lease; and ◦ the origination of the following loans (each as defined below): (i) Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan, (ii) Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, (iii) Great Wolf Northeast Loan, (iv) Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, (v) Great Wolf South Florida Loan, (vi) Cabot Citrus Farms Loan and (vii) BigShots Loan, for aggregate total commitments of $1,223.9 million and weighted average interest rate of 8.98%. • Completed the previously announced MGP Transactions, which upon closing on April 29, 2022, added $1,012.2 million of annualized rent to our portfolio. • Completed the previously announced Venetian Acquisition, which upon closing on February 23, 2022, added $250.0 million of annualized rent to our portfolio. • Added to the S&P 500 Index on June 8, 2022. • Announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend to $0.39 per share (or $1.56 per share on an annualized basis), representing a 8.3% increase compared to our previous quarterly dividend. • Completed an equity offering with an aggregate offering value of $580.0 million and sold 21,617,592 shares under our ATM Program for aggregate offering value of $715.9 million, all of which were subject to forward sale agreements and which were settled in January 2023 for aggregate net proceeds of $1,272.3 million. • Completed an inaugural $5.0 billion offering of investment grade senior unsecured notes and entered into $3.0 billion of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements and treasury locks to hedge a portion of the interest rate exposure, resulting in a weighted average interest rate of 4.51% with respect to the April 2022 Notes. • Entered into the Credit Facilities, including a $2.5 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, and terminated our previous Secured Revolving Credit Facility. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES Acquisition Activity • MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, we closed on the previously announced acquisition of the remaining 49.9% interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV (previously referred to as the “BREIT JV”) from BREIT (the “MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition”) for cash consideration of $1,261.9 million. We also assumed BREIT’s $1,497.0 million pro rata share of an aggregate $3.0 billion of property-level debt, which matures in 2032 and bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.558% per annum through March 2030. The cash consideration was funded through a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from the settlement of the November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements and ATM Forward Sale Agreements (each as defined in ). The MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease currently has annual rent of $303.8 million, all of which will be reflected in our Financial Statements following the closing of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition (and will have annual rent of approximately $310.0 million upon commencement of the next rental escalation on March 1, 2023). The MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease has a remaining initial lease term of approximately 27 years (expiring in 2050), with two ten-year tenant renewal options. Rent under the lease agreement escalates annually at 2.0% through 2035 (year 15 of the initial lease term) and thereafter at the greater of 2.0% or CPI (subject to a 3.0% ceiling). • PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction. Subsequent to year-end, on January 6, 2023, we acquired the real estate assets of PURE Casino Edmonton, PURE Casino Yellowhead, PURE Casino Calgary, and PURE Casino Lethbridge, all of which are located in Alberta, Canada, from PURE Canadian Gaming for an aggregate purchase price of approximately C$271.9 million (approximately US$200.8 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) (the “PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction”). We financed the PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction with a combination of cash on hand and by drawing down C$140.0 million (approximately US$103.4 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) under our Revolving Credit Facility. Simultaneous with the acquisition, we entered into the PURE Master Lease, which has an initial annual rent of approximately C$21.8 million (approximately US$16.1 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition), an initial term of 25 years, with four 5-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 1.25% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 1.5% and Canadian CPI, capped at 2.5%, beginning in lease year four) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue (excluding gaming equipment). The tenant’s obligations under the PURE Master Lease are guaranteed by the parent entity of PURE Canadian Gaming. 49 • Foundation Gaming Transaction. On December 22, 2022, we acquired the real estate assets of the Fitz Casino & Hotel, located in Tunica, Mississippi, and the WaterView Casino & Hotel, located in Vicksburg, Mississippi, from Foundation Gaming for an aggregate purchase price of $293.4 million (the “Foundation Gaming Transaction”). We financed the Foundation Gaming Transaction with cash on hand. Simultaneous with the acquisition, we entered into the Foundation Master Lease, which has an initial annual rent of $24.3 million, an initial term of 15 years, with four 5-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 1.0% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 1.5% and CPI, capped at 3%, beginning in lease year four) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue (excluding gaming equipment) over a rolling three-year period. The tenants’ obligations under the Foundation Master Lease are guaranteed by the parent entity, Foundation Gaming. • Rocky Gap Casino Transaction. On August 24, 2022, we and Century Casinos entered into definitive agreements to acquire Rocky Gap Casino, located in Flintstone, Maryland, from Golden Entertainment, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $260.0 million. Pursuant to the transaction agreements, we will acquire an interest in the land and buildings associated with Rocky Gap Casino for approximately $203.9 million and Century Casinos will acquire the operating assets of the property for approximately $56.1 million. Simultaneous with the closing of the transaction, the Century Master Lease will be amended to include Rocky Gap Casino and annual rent will increase by $15.5 million. Additionally, the terms of the Century Master Lease will be extended such that, upon closing of the transaction, the lease will have a full 15-year initial base lease term remaining, with four 5-year tenant renewal options. The tenants’ obligations under the Century Master Lease will continue to be guaranteed by Century Casinos. The transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions and is expected to close in mid-2023. • MGP Transactions. On April 29, 2022, we closed on the previously announced MGP Transactions governed by the MGP Master Transaction Agreement, pursuant to which we acquired MGP for total consideration of $11.6 billion, plus the assumption of approximately $5.7 billion principal amount of debt, inclusive of our 50.1% share of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV CMBS debt. Upon closing, the MGP Transactions added $1,012.2 million of annualized rent to our portfolio from 15 Class A entertainment casino resort properties spread across nine regions and comprising 36,000 hotel rooms, 3.6 million square feet of meeting and convention space and hundreds of food, beverage and entertainment venues. Under the terms of the MGP Master Transaction Agreement, each outstanding MGP Class A common share was converted into 1.366 (the “Exchange Ratio”) shares of VICI common stock. The fixed Exchange Ratio represented an agreed upon price of $43.00 per share of MGP Class A common shares based on VICI’s trailing 5-day volume weighted average price of $31.47 as of July 30, 2021. MGM received $43.00 per unit in cash for the redemption of the majority of its MGP OP units that it held for total cash consideration of approximately $4.404 billion and also retained approximately 12.2 million units in VICI OP. The MGP Class B share that was held by MGM was cancelled and ceased to exist at the effective time of the Mergers. Simultaneous with the closing of the Mergers on April 29, 2022, we entered into the MGM Master Lease. The MGM Master Lease has an initial term of 25 years, with three 10-year tenant renewal options and has an initial total annual rent of $860.0 million. Rent under the MGM Master Lease escalates at a rate of 2.0% per annum for the first 10 years and thereafter at the greater of 2.0% per annum or the increase in CPI, subject to a 3.0% cap. The total annual rent under the MGM Master Lease was reduced by $90.0 million upon the close of MGM’s sale of the operations of the Mirage to Hard Rock and entrance into the Mirage Lease on December 19, 2022, and further reduced by $40.0 million upon the close of MGM’s sale of the operations of Gold Strike on February 15, 2023 (which takes the total annual rent under the MGM Master Lease to $730.0 million), each as described below. Additionally, we retained a 50.1% ownership stake in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV, which owns the real estate assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay. The MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease provides for current total annual base rent of approximately $303.8 million, of which approximately $152.2 million was attributable to our investment in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV as of December 31, 2022, and an initial term of thirty years with two 10-year tenant renewal options. Rent under the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease escalates at a rate of 2.0% per annum for the first 15 years and thereafter at the greater of 2.0% per annum or CPI, subject to a 3.0% cap. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, we closed on the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition and accordingly own 100% of the interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV. On a combined basis, as of January 9, 2023, we receive approximately $1,073.8 million of annual rent under th e MGM Master Lease and MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease . Refer to “ MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition ” above for further details. The tenant’s obligations under the MGM Master Lease and the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay Lease continue to be guaranteed by MGM. • Venetian Acquisition. On February 23, 2022, we closed on the previously announced transaction to acquire all of the land and real estate assets associated with the Venetian Resort from Las Vegas Sands Corp. (“LVS”) for $4.0 billion in cash, and the Venetian Tenant acquired the operating assets of the Venetian Resort for $2.25 billion, of which $1.2 billion is in the form of a secured term loan from LVS and the remainder was paid in cash. We funded the Venetian 50 Acquisition with (i) $3.2 billion in net proceeds from the physical settlement of the March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and the September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements, (ii) an initial draw on the Revolving Credit Facility of $600.0 million, and (iii) cash on hand. Simultaneous with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition, we entered into the Venetian Lease with the Venetian Tenant. The Venetian Lease has an initial total annual rent of $250.0 million and an initial term of 30 years, with two ten-year tenant renewal options. The annual rent is subject to escalation equal to the greater of 2.0% and the increase in the CPI, capped at 3.0%, beginning in the earlier of (i) the beginning of the third lease year, and (ii) the month following the month in which the net revenue generated by the Venetian Resort returns to its 2019 level (the year immediately prior to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic) on a trailing twelve-month basis. In connection with the Venetian Acquisition, we entered into a Partner Property Growth Fund Agreement (“Venetian PGF”) with the Venetian Tenant. Under the Venetian PGF, we agreed to provide up to $1.0 billion for various development and construction projects affecting the Venetian Resort to be identified by the Venetian Tenant and that satisfy certain criteria more particularly set forth in the Venetian PGF, in consideration of additional incremental rent to be paid by the Venetian Tenant under the Venetian Lease and calculated in accordance with a formula set forth in the Venetian PGF. In addition, LVS agreed with the Venetian Tenant pursuant to an agreement (the “Contingent Lease Support Agreement”) entered into simultaneously with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition to provide lease payment support designed to guarantee the Venetian Tenant’s rent obligations under the Venetian Lease through 2023, subject to early termination if EBITDAR (as defined in such agreement) generated by the Venetian Resort in 2022 equals or exceeds $550.0 million, or a tenant change of control occurs. We were a third-party beneficiary of the Contingent Lease Support Agreement and had certain enforcement rights pursuant thereto. The EBITDAR generated by the operations of the Venetian Resort exceeded $550.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and, accordingly, the Contingent Lease Support Agreement early terminated in accordance with its terms. Loan Origination Activity • Great Wolf Northeast Loan. On December 30, 2022, we entered into a loan with Great Wolf, under which we agreed to provide up to $287.9 million of senior secured financing (the “Great Wolf Northeast Loan”) the proceeds of which will be used to fund the development of a Great Wolf Lodge in Mashantucket, Connecticut, a 549-room indoor family resort water park project adjacent to the Foxwoods Resort Casino. The Great Wolf Northeast Loan has an initial term of three years with two 12-month extension options, subject to certain conditions and is expected to be funded by us with cash on hand in accordance with a construction draw schedule. • Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan. On December 23, 2022, we entered into definitive agreements pursuant to which we have agreed to provide up to $350.0 million in mezzanine loan financing (the “Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan”) to a partnership between Fontainebleau Development, LLC, a builder, owner, and operator of luxury hospitality, commercial and retail properties, and Koch Real Estate Investments, the real estate investment arm of Koch Industries, to complete the construction of Fontainebleau Las Vegas, a 67-story hotel, gaming, meeting, and entertainment destination coming to the north end of the Las Vegas Strip. The investment was, and will continue to be, funded by us in accordance with a construction draw schedule. Fontainebleau Las Vegas is expected to open in the fourth quarter of 2023. • Canyon Ranch Austin Loan. On October 7, 2022, we entered into a delayed draw term loan facility (the “Canyon Ranch Austin Loan”) with Canyon Ranch, a leading pioneer in global wellness, under which we agreed to provide up to $200.0 million of secured financing to fund the development of Canyon Ranch Austin in Austin, Texas. We also entered into a call right agreement pursuant to which we will have the right to acquire the real estate assets of Canyon Ranch Austin for up to 24 months following stabilization (with the loan balance being settled in connection with the exercise of such call right), which transaction will be structured as a sale leaseback (with the simultaneous entry into a triple-net lease with Canyon Ranch that will have an initial term of 25 years, with eight 5-year tenant renewal options). In addition, we entered into a purchase option agreement, pursuant to which (i) we have an option to acquire the real estate assets associated with the existing Canyon Ranch Tucson and Canyon Ranch Lenox properties, which transactions will be structured as a sale leaseback, in each case solely to the extent Canyon Ranch elects to sell either or both of such properties in a sale leaseback structure for a specific period of time, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we entered into a right of first offer agreement on future financing opportunities for Canyon Ranch and certain of its affiliates with respect to the funding of certain facilities (including Canyon Ranch Austin, Canyon Ranch Tucson and Canyon Ranch Lenox, and any other fee owned Canyon Ranch branded wellness resort), until the date that is the earlier of five years from commencement of the Canyon Ranch Austin lease (to the extent applicable) and the date that neither VICI nor any of its affiliates are landlord under such lease, subject to certain specified terms, conditions and exceptions. 51 • Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan. On August 30, 2022, we entered into a loan with Great Wolf under which we agreed to provide up to $127.0 million of mezzanine financing (the “Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan”), the proceeds of which will be used to fund the development of Great Wolf Lodge Gulf Coast Texas, a more than $200.0 million, 532-room indoor water park resort project in Webster, TX. The Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan has an initial term of three years with two 12-month extension options, subject to certain conditions and is funded by us with cash on hand in accordance with a construction draw schedule. • Great Wolf South Florida Loan. On July 1, 2022, we entered into a loan with Great Wolf under which we agreed to provide up to $59.0 million of mezzanine financing (the “Great Wolf South Florida Loan”), the proceeds of which will be used to fund the development of Great Wolf Lodge South Florida, a more than $250.0 million, 500-room indoor water park resort project in Collier County, FL. The Great Wolf South Florida Loan has an initial term of four years with one 12-month extension option subject to certain conditions and is funded with cash on hand in accordance with a construction draw schedule. • Cabot Citrus Farms Loan. On June 6, 2022, we entered into a $120.0 million delayed draw term loan (the “Cabot Citrus Farms Loan”) with Cabot, a developer, owner and operator of world-class destination golf resorts and communities, the proceeds of which will be used to fund Cabot’s property-wide transformation of Cabot Citrus Farms in Brooksville, Florida, with the addition of a new clubhouse, luxury lodging, health and wellness facilities and a vibrant village center. We also entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement, pursuant to which upon substantial completion of the asset we will convert a portion of the Cabot Citrus Farms Loan into the ownership of certain Cabot Citrus Farms real estate assets and simultaneously enter into a triple-net lease with Cabot that will have an initial term of 25 years, with five 5-year tenant renewal options. • BigShots Loan. On April 7, 2022, we entered into a loan with BigShots Golf (“BigShots Golf”), a subsidiary of ClubCorp Holdings, Inc. (“ClubCorp”), an Apollo fund portfolio company, under which we agreed to provide up to $80.0 million of mortgage financing for the construction of certain new BigShots Golf facilities throughout the United States. In addition, we entered into a right of first offer and a call right agreement, pursuant to which (i) we have a call right to acquire the real estate assets associated with any BigShots Golf facility financed by us, which transaction will be structured as a sale leaseback, and (ii) for so long as the BigShots Loan remains outstanding and we continue to hold a majority interest therein, subject to additional terms and conditions, we will have a right of first offer on any multi-site mortgage, mezzanine, preferred equity, or other similar financing that is treated as debt to be obtained by BigShots Golf (or any of its affiliates) in connection with the development of BigShots Golf facilities. Existing Portfolio Activity • Gold Strike Lease. Subsequent to year-end, on February 15, 2023, in connection with MGM’s sale of the operations of Gold Strike, we entered into the Gold Strike Lease with CNB related to the land and real estate assets of Gold Strike, and entered into an amendment to the MGM Master Lease in order to account for the divestiture of the operations of Golf Strike. The Gold Strike Lease has initial annual base rent of $40.0 million with other economic terms substantially similar to the MGM Master Lease, including a base term of 25 years with three 10-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 2.0% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 2.0% and CPI, capped at 3.0%, beginning in lease year 11) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue. The Gold Strike Lease is guaranteed by CNB. Upon the closing of the sale of Gold Strike, the MGM Master Lease was amended to account for MGM’s divestiture of the Gold Strike operations and resulted in a reduction of the annual base rent under the MGM Master Lease by $40.0 million. • Mirage Lease. On December 19, 2022, in connection with MGM’s sale of the operations of the Mirage Hotel & Casino (the “Mirage”) to Hard Rock, we entered into the Mirage Lease and entered into an amendment to the MGM Master Lease relating to the sale of the Mirage. The Mirage Lease has an initial annual base rent of $90.0 million with other economic terms substantially similar to the MGM Master Lease, including a base term of 25 years with three 10-year tenant renewal options, escalation of 2.0% per annum (with escalation of the greater of 2.0% and CPI, capped at 3.0%, beginning in lease year 11) and minimum capital expenditure requirements of 1.0% of annual net revenue. Upon the closing of the sale of the Mirage, the MGM Master Lease was amended to account for MGM’s divestiture of the Mirage operations and resulted in a reduction of the annual base rent under the MGM Master Lease by $90.0 million. Additionally, subject to certain conditions, we may fund up to $1.5 billion of Hard Rock’s redevelopment plan for the Mirage through our Partner Property Growth Fund if Hard Rock elects to seek third-party financing for such redevelopment. The specific terms of the potential funding remain subject to ongoing discussion in connection with Hard Rock’s broader planning of the potential redevelopment, as well as the negotiation of definitive documentation between us and Hard Rock, and there are no assurances that the redevelopment of the Hard Rock-Mirage will occur on the contemplated terms, including through our financing, or at all. 52 • Century Casinos Expansion. On December 1, 2022, we amended the Century Master Lease to provide approximately $51.9 million in capital through our Partner Property Growth Fund for the construction of a land-based casino with an adjacent 38-room hotel tower at Century Casino Caruthersville. Pursuant to the amendment to the Century Master Lease, we will own the real estate improvements associated with these projects and annual rent under the Century Master Lease will increase by approximately $4.2 million following completion of the projects. Other Portfolio Activity • Cabot Golf Course Management Agreement. On October 1, 2022, we entered into a management agreement with CDN Golf, an affiliate of Cabot, a developer, owner and operator of world-class destination golf resorts and communities, pursuant to which CDN Golf manages our four Golf Courses. Pursuant to the management agreement, CDN Golf has assumed all day-to-day operations of the Golf Courses and the employees at each of the Golf Courses are employees of CDN Golf. We continue to own the Golf Courses within our TRS, VICI Golf. The management agreement has a term of 20 years with two five-year renewal options upon mutual agreement of Cabot and us, subject to certain early termination rights. Financing and Capital Markets Activity • January 2023 Offering. Subsequent to year-end, on January 12, 2023, we completed a primary offering of 30,302,500 shares of common stock (inclusive of 3,952,500 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common stock) at a public offering price of $33.00 per share for an aggregate offering value of $1,000.0 million, resulting in net proceeds, after deduction of the underwriting discount and expenses, of $964.4 million. The shares are subject to forward sale agreements (the “January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements”), which require settlement by January 16, 2024. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates and remain subject to settlement in accordance with the terms of the January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements. • November Block Trade. On November 3, 2022, we completed an offering of 18,975,000 shares of common stock (inclusive of 2,475,000 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common stock), which the underwriters agreed to purchase from us at a price of $30.57 per share for an aggregate offering value of $580.0 million, all of which are subject to forward sale agreements (the “November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements”) to be settled by November 6, 2023. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates. Subsequent to year-end, on January 6, 2023, we physically settled the November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $575.6 million, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. • At-The-Market Offering Programs. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we sold an aggregate of 21,617,592 shares under the ATM Program (as defined in ), all of which were subject to forward sale agreements, for estimated aggregate total proceeds of $715.9 million based on the initial forward sale price with respect to each forward sale agreement. We did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock under the ATM Program, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates. Subsequent to year-end, in January 2023, we physically settled all the forward shares issued under the ATM Program in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $696.7 million, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. • Issuance of Exchange Notes. In connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, the VICI Issuers issued $4,110.0 million in aggregate principal amount of Exchange Notes in exchange for the validly tendered and not validly withdrawn MGP OP Notes pursuant to the settlement of the Exchange Offers and Consent Solicitations (each, as defined in ). The Exchange Notes were issued with the same interest rate, maturity date and redemption terms as the corresponding series of MGP OP Notes. Following the issuance of the Exchange Notes pursuant to the settlement of the Exchange Offers and Consent Solicitations, $90.0 million in aggregate principal amount of MGP OP Notes remained outstanding. See for additional information. • Issuance of April 2022 Notes. In connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, VICI LP issued (i) $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.375% 2025 Notes, (ii) $1,250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.750% 2028 Notes, (iii) $1,000.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.950% 2030 Notes, (iv) $1,500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.125% 2032 Notes, and (v) $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.625% 2052 Notes, in each case under a supplemental indenture dated as of April 29, 2022, between VICI LP and the Trustee (as defined in ). We used the net proceeds of the offering to (i) fund the consideration for the redemption of a majority of the VICI OP Units received by MGM in the Partnership Merger for $4,404.0 million in cash in connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, and (ii) pay down 53 the outstanding $600.0 million balance on our Revolving Credit Facility. The weighted average interest rate for the senior notes issued in the April 2022 Notes offering is 5.00%, and the adjusted weighted average interest rate, after taking into account the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks, is 4.51%. • Settlement of September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements. On February 18, 2022, we physically settled the September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and the March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements (each as defined in ) in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $3.2 billion, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the Venetian Acquisition. • Entry into New Unsecured Credit Agreement. On February 8, 2022, we entered into the Credit Facilities pursuant to the Credit Agreement, comprised of (i) the Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of $2.5 billion scheduled to mature on March 31, 2026 and (ii) the Delayed Draw Term Loan in the amount of $1.0 billion scheduled to mature on March 31, 2025. Concurrently, we terminated our Secured Revolving Credit Facility (including the first priority lien on substantially all of VICI PropCo’s and its existing and subsequently acquired wholly owned material domestic restricted subsidiaries’ material assets) and our 2017 Credit Agreement (as defined in ). The Delayed Draw Term Loan was available to be drawn up to 12 months following the effective date and on February 8, 2023, the Delayed Draw Term Loan facility expired undrawn in accordance with its terms. The Revolving Credit Facility includes the option to increase the revolving loan commitments by up to $1.0 billion in the aggregate to the extent that any one or more lenders (from the syndicate or otherwise) agree to provide such additional credit extensions. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest at VICI LP’s option at a rate based on SOFR (including a credit spread adjustment) plus a margin ranging from 0.775% to 1.325% or a base rate plus a margin ranging from 0.00% to 0.325%, in each case, with the actual margin determined according to VICI LP’s debt ratings. On July 15, 2022, the Credit Agreement was amended pursuant to a First Amendment among VICI LP and the lenders party to the Credit Agreement, in order to permit borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility in certain foreign currencies in an aggregate principal amount of up to the equivalent of $1.25 billion. • Entry into Forward-Starting Interest Rate Swap Agreements and U.S. Treasury Rate Locks. From December 2021 through April 2022, we entered into five forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $2,500.0 million and two U.S. Treasury Rate Lock agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $500.0 million. The interest rate swap agreements and treasury locks were intended to reduce the variability in the forecasted interest expense related to the fixed-rate debt we expected to incur in connection with closing the MGP Transactions. In connection with the April 2022 Notes offering, we settled the outstanding forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks for net proceeds of $206.8 million. Since the forward-starting swaps and treasury locks were hedging the interest rate risk on the April 2022 Notes, the unrealized gain in Accumulated other comprehensive income is being amortized over the term of the respective derivative instruments, which matches that of the underlying note, as a reduction in interest expense. KEY TRENDS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS Tenant and Industry Performance Our tenants and the guarantors of their respective obligations, as applicable, under the Lease Agreements are leading gaming operators across the United States and Canada. Rental payments under t he Lease Agreements comprise, and are expected to continue to comprise, a substantial majority of our revenues. Accordingly, we are dependent on, among other things, our tenants’ and, as applicable, their respective guarantors’, financial performance, the performance of the gaming industry and the health of the economies in the areas where our properties are located for the foreseeable future, and an event that has a material adverse effect on any of our tenant’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations or prospects could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects. In addition, the financial performance of our tenants and their respective guarantors also has a direct impact on our financial results in a given reporting period due to the impact of ASC 326 “Credit Losses” (“ASC 326”), which requires us to estimate and record non-cash expected credit losses related to our investments, including changes on a quarterly basis, that are recorded in our Statement of Operations and impact our reported net income. The change in non-cash allowance for credit losses for a given period is dependent upon, among other things, our tenants’ and guarantors’ financial performance. For more information regarding ASC 326, refer to included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 54 Business Strategy Our business prospects and future growth will be significantly influenced by the success of our business strategy, and the timing, availability and terms of financing of any acquisitions and investments that we may complete, as well as broader macroeconomic and other conditions that affect our tenants’ operating and financial performance, including those described herein.  Further, the pricing of any acquisitions or other investments we may consummate and the terms of any leases that we may enter into will significantly impact our future results. Competition to enter into transactions, including sale leaseback transactions, with attractive properties and desirable tenants is intense, and we can provide no assurance that any future acquisitions, investments or leases will be on terms as favorable to us as those relating to recent or historical transactions. Impact of the Macroeconomic Environment We anticipate that we would seek to finance our future growth with a combination of debt and equity, although no assurance can be given that we would be able to issue equity and/or debt in such amounts on favorable terms, or at all, or that we would not determine to incur more debt on a relative basis at the relevant time due to market conditions or otherwise. Recent macroeconomic volatility has introduced significant uncertainty and heightened risk for businesses, including us and our tenants, as a result of the current inflationary environment, including the impact of rising interest rates and increased cost of capital. Our tenants also face additional challenges, including potential changes in consumer confidence levels, behavior and spending and increased operational expenses, such as with respect to labor or energy costs. As a triple-net lessor, increased operational expenses at our leased properties are borne by our tenants and do not directly impact their rent obligations (other than with respect to underlying inflation as applied to the CPI-based escalators described below) or other obligations under our Lease Agreements. However, the current environment, including rising interest rates and market volatility, impacts our business in certain respects, such as by increasing interest expense with respect to any borrowings under our Credit Facility, increasing volatility of our share price with respect to sales of common stock, and, with respect to potential transactions, evaluating asset and property values in discussions with potential counterparties and obtaining transaction financing on attractive terms, all of which could increase our cost of capital and negatively impact our growth prospects. With respect to our Lease Agreements, which generally provide for annual rent escalation based on a specified percentage increase and/or increases in CPI, we expect that increasing inflation will result in additional rent increases over time under our CPI-based lease provisions (subject to any applicable caps or periods in which such provisions do not apply). However, these rent increases may not match increasing inflation during periods when inflation rates are greater than the applicable CPI-based caps. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic Since the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, among broader public health, societal and global impacts, the pandemic has negatively impacted the economy, including the real estate industry and certain experiential sectors, and contributed to volatility and uncertainty in financial markets. Although our tenants’ operations at our leased properties are generally no longer subject to significant operating restrictions, with performance in many cases at or above pre-pandemic levels, they may continue to face challenges in operating their businesses due to the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, such as complying with any future operating restrictions, ensuring sufficient staffing and service levels, sustaining customer engagement and maintaining improved operating margins and financial performance. Overall Implications of Such Material Trends on Our Business As a triple-net lessor, we believe we are generally in a strong creditor position and structurally insulated from operational and performance impacts of our tenants, both positive and negative. However, the full extent to which the trends set forth herein adversely affect our tenants and/or ultimately impact us depends on future developments that cannot be predicted with confidence, including our tenants’ financial performance, the direct and indirect effects of such trends discussed herein (including among other things, rising interest rates, inflation, economic recessions, consumer confidence levels and general conditions in the capital and credit markets) and the impact of any future measures taken in response to such trends on our tenants. For more information, refer to “ ” included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 55 DISCUSSION OF OPERATING RESULTS Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 56 Revenue For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, our revenue was comprised of the following items: Leasing Revenue The following table details the components of our income from sales-type lease and lease financing receivables: ____________________ (1) Represents the MGM Master Lease, Harrah’s Call Properties (as defined in ), the JACK Master Lease and the Foundation Master Lease, all of which were sale leaseback transactions. In accordance with ASC 842, since the lease agreements were determined to meet the definition of a sales-type lease and control of the asset is not considered to have transferred to us, such lease agreements are accounted for as financings under ASC 310. (2) Amounts represent the non-cash adjustment to income from sales-type leases, direct financing leases and lease financing receivables in order to recognize income on an effective interest basis at a constant rate of return over the term of the leases. Leasing revenue is generated from rent from our Lease Agreements. Total leasing revenue increased $1,050.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Total contractual leasing revenue increased $832.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increases were primarily driven by the addition of the MGM Master Lease, Venetian Lease and Foundation Master Lease to our portfolio in 2022, as well as the annual rent escalators from certain of our other Lease Agreements. Income From Loans Income from loans increased $3.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was driven by the addition and/or subsequent funding, as applicable, of the Great Wolf Northeast Loan, Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan, Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, Great Wolf South Florida Loan, Cabot Citrus Farms Loan and Great Wolf Maryland loan to our real estate investment portfolio, partially offset by the repayment of the $70.0 million term loan with JACK Entertainment in October 2021 . Other Income Other income increased $31.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was driven primarily by the additional income and offsetting expense as a result of the assumption of certain sub-leases in connection with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition and MGP Transactions. The Lease Agreements require the tenants to pay all costs associated with such ground and use sub-leases and provide for their direct payment to the landlord. Golf Revenues Revenues from golf operations increased $5.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The change was primarily driven by an increase in rounds played at the Golf Courses and an increase in the contractual fees paid to us by Caesars for the use of our Golf Courses, pursuant to a golf course use agreement. 57 Operating Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, our operating expenses were comprised of the following items: General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $15.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in compensation, including stock-based compensation and the addition of new employees to the corporate team and additional expenses related to the significant growth of our business in 2022. Other Expenses Other expenses increased $31.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was driven primarily by the additional income and offsetting expense as a result of the assumption of certain sub-leases in connection with the Venetian Acquisition and MGP Transactions. The Lease Agreements require the tenants to pay all costs associated with such ground and use sub-leases and provide for their direct payment to the landlord. Golf Expenses Expenses from golf operations increased $1.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The change was primarily driven by increased costs related to the number of rounds of golf played across our Golf Courses. In addition, $3.2 million and $3.1 million of depreciation expense was incurred primarily by the golf business during the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Change in Allowance for Credit Losses During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recognized an $834.5 million increase in our allowance for credit losses, or CECL allowance, primarily driven by initial CECL allowances on our acquisition activity during such period in the amount of $573.6 million , representing 68.7% of the total CECL allowance for the year ended December 31, 2022. The initial CECL allowances were in relation to (i) the closing of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022, which included the (a) classification of the MGM Master Lease as a lease financing receivable and (b) the sales-type sub-lease agreements that we assumed in connection with the closing of the MGP Transactions, (ii) the closing of the Venetian Acquisition on February 23, 2022, which included (a) the classification of the Venetian Lease as a sales-type lease, (b) the estimated future funding commitments under the Venetian PGF and (c) the sales-type sub-lease agreements that we assumed in connection with the closing of the Venetian Acquisition, and (iii) the future funding commitments from the origination of the BigShots Loan, the Cabot Citrus Farms Loan, the Great Wolf South Florida Loan, the Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, the Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, the Great Wolf Northeast Loan and the Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan. Additional increases were attributable to (i) changes in the macroeconomic model used to scenario condition our reasonable and supportable period, or R&S Period, probability of default, or PD, due to uncertain and potentially negative future market conditions, (ii) an increase in the R&S Period PD of our tenants and their parent guarantors (as applicable) as a result of market volatility during the quarter and (iii) an increase in the R&S Period PD and loss given default, or LGD, as a result of standard annual updates that were made to the inputs and assumptions in the model that we utilize to estimate our CECL allowance. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the long-term reasonable and supportable period probability of default, or Long-Term Period PD, due to an upgrade of the credit rating of the senior secured debt used to determine the Long-Term Period PD for one of our tenants and as a result of standard annual updates that were made to the Long-Term Period PD default study that we utilize to estimate our CECL allowance. 58 During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a $19.6 million decrease in our allowance for credit losses primarily driven by (i) the decrease in the R&S Period PD of our tenants or borrowers and their parent guarantors as a result of an improvement in their economic outlook due to the reopening of all of their gaming operations and relative performance of such operations during 2021, (ii) the decrease in the Long-Term Period PD due to an upgrade of the credit rating of the senior secured debt used to determine the Long-Term Period PD for one of our tenants during 2021 and (iii) the decrease in the R&S Period PD and loss given default as a result of standard annual updates that were made to the inputs and assumptions in the model that we utilize to estimate our CECL allowance. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in the existing amortized cost balances subject to the CECL allowance . Refer to for further details. Transaction and Acquisition Expenses Transaction and acquisition costs increased $12.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 driven primarily by increases in costs incurred for the MGP Transactions and Venetian Acquisition during the period that are not capitalized under GAAP. Such balances also includes costs incurred for investments that we are no longer pursuing, the amounts of  which fluctuate depending on volume and timing of such non-pursuit. Non-Operating Income and Expenses For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, our non-operating income and expenses were comprised of the following items: Income from Unconsolidated Affiliate Income from unconsolidated affiliate during the year ended December 31, 2022 represents our 50.1% share of the income of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV for the period of ownership, which interest was acquired as part of the MGP Transactions on April 29, 2022. The income from unconsolidated affiliate includes the amortization of certain basis differences arising from the differences between our purchase price and the underlying carrying value of the joint venture. As the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV interest was acquired by us on April 29, 2022, no such income was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2021. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, we purchased BREIT’s 49.9% share of interest in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV and, accordingly, we will consolidate the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV entity in future periods, upon which such income will be presented on a consolidated basis as part of our leasing income. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $147.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily related to the increase in debt from the (i) issuance of the April 2022 Notes, (ii) issuance of the Exchange Notes and (iii) assumption of the MGP OP Notes, the combination of which resulted in an additional $9.2 billion in notional amount of debt at a weighted average interest rate of 4.70%, net of the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks. Further increases were related to (i) the amortization of the commitment fees associated with the bridge facilities entered into in connection with the acquisition of the Venetian Resort and the MGP Transactions, (ii) the commitment fees on the Revolving Credit Facility and the Delayed Draw Term Loan, and (iii) additional interest on the $600.0 million draw on the Revolving Credit Facility in February 2022 (which was repaid in full on April 29, 2022). The increases were partially offset by the full repayment of the Term Loan B Facility in September 2021 and certain non-recurring activity during the year ended December 31, 2021, which included (i) the $64.2 million payment in connection with the early settlement of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements and (ii) the amortization of the commitment fees associated with the Venetian Acquisition Bridge Facility and the MGP Transactions Bridge Facility. Additionally, the weighted average annualized interest rate of our debt, net of the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks, increased to 4.39% during the year ended December 31, 2022 from 4.04% during the year ended December 31, 2021 as a result of a higher weighted average effective interest rate on the April 2022 Notes, Exchange Notes and MGP OP Notes as compared to our outstanding debt during such prior period. 59 Interest Income Interest income increased $9.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by a significant increase in the interest rates and income earned on our excess cash and short-term investments, coupled with an overall increase in our cash on hand throughout the current year as compared to the prior year. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $15.6 million resulting from the write-off of the unamortized deferred financing fees in connection with the full repayment of our Term Loan B Facility in September 2021. No such loss was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, see “ ” of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022 and incorporated by reference herein. RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES We present VICI’s Funds From Operations (“FFO”), FFO per share, Adjusted Funds From Operations (“AFFO”), AFFO per share, and Adjusted EBITDA, which are not required by, or presented in accordance with, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). These are non-GAAP financial measures and should not be construed as alternatives to net income or as an indicator of operating performance (as determined in accordance with GAAP). We believe FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA provide a meaningful perspective of the underlying operating performance of VICI’s business. FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that is considered a supplemental measure for the real estate industry and a supplement to GAAP measures. Consistent with the definition used by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT), we define FFO as VICI’s net income (or loss) attributable to common stockholders (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding (i) gains (or losses) from sales of certain real estate assets, (ii) depreciation and amortization related to real estate, (iii) gains and losses from change in control, (iv) impairment write-downs of certain real estate assets and investments in entities when the impairment is directly attributable to decreases in the value of depreciable real estate held by the entity and (v) VICI’s proportionate share of such adjustments from its investment in unconsolidated affiliate. AFFO is a non-GAAP financial measure that we use as a supplemental operating measure to evaluate VICI’s performance. We calculate VICI’s AFFO by adding or subtracting from FFO non-cash leasing and financing adjustments, non-cash change in allowance for credit losses, non-cash stock-based compensation expense, transaction costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of real estate investments, amortization of debt issuance costs and original issue discount, other non-cash interest expense, non-real estate depreciation (which is comprised of the depreciation related to our golf course operations), capital expenditures (which are comprised of additions to property, plant and equipment related to our golf course operations), impairment charges related to non-depreciable real estate, gains (or losses) on debt extinguishment and interest rate swap settlements, other non-recurring non-cash transactions, our proportionate share of non-cash adjustments from our investment in unconsolidated affiliate (including the amortization of any basis differences) with respect to certain of the foregoing and non-cash adjustments attributable to non-controlling interest with respect to certain of the foregoing. We calculate VICI’s Adjusted EBITDA by adding or subtracting from AFFO contractual interest expense (including the impact of the forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury locks) and interest income (collectively, interest expense, net), income tax expense and our proportionate share of such adjustments from VICI’s investment in unconsolidated affiliate. These non-GAAP financial measures: (i) do not represent VICI’s cash flow from operations as defined by GAAP; (ii) should not be considered as an alternative to VICI’s net income as a measure of operating performance or to cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities; and (iii) are not alternatives to VICI’s cash flow as a measure of liquidity. In addition, these measures should not be viewed as measures of liquidity, nor do they measure our ability to fund all of our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions to our stockholders, to fund capital improvements, or to make interest payments on our indebtedness. Investors are also cautioned that FFO, FFO per share, AFFO, AFFO per share and Adjusted EBITDA, as presented, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other real estate companies, including REITs, due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definitions. Our presentation of these measures does not replace the presentation of VICI’s financial results in accordance with GAAP. 60 Reconciliation of VICI’s Net Income to FFO, FFO per Share, AFFO, AFFO per Share and Adjusted EBITDA ____________________ (1) Includes swap breakage costs of approximately $64.2 million incurred by VICI PropCo on September 15, 2021 in connection with the early settlement of the outstanding interest rate swap agreements. 61 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity As of December 31, 2022, our available cash and cash equivalents balance, short-term investments and capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility were as follows: ____________________ (1) In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility includes the option to increase the revolving loan commitments by up to $1.0 billion to the extent that any one or more lenders (from the syndicate or otherwise) agree to provide such additional credit extensions. (2) Subsequent to year-end, on January 3, 2023, we drew on the Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of C$140.0 million (approximately US$103.4 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) to fund a portion of the purchase price of the PURE Canadian Gaming Acquisition. (3) Subsequent to year-end, in January 2023 we physically settled the November 2022 Forward Sale Agreements and the then outstanding shares under the ATM Forward Sale Agreements in exchange for total net proceeds of approximately $1,272.2 million, which were used to pay for a portion of the purchase price of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Interest Acquisition. (4) Subsequent to year-end, on January 12, 2023, we completed a primary offering of 30,302,500 shares of common stock (inclusive of 3,952,500 shares sold pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional common stock) at a public offering price of $33.00 per share for an aggregate offering value of $1,000.0 million, Such amount is not included in the table above and we did not initially receive any proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock in the offering, which were sold to the underwriters by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates and remain subject to settlement in accordance with the terms of the January 2023 Forward Sale Agreements. (5) Amounts exclude the capacity under the Delayed Draw Term Loan as the ability to use the commitments expired on February 8, 2023, and no amounts were drawn upon prior to expiration. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity to meet our material cash requirements, including our contractual obligations and commitments as well as our additional funding requirements, primarily through currently available cash and cash equivalents, cash received under our Lease Agreements, existing borrowings from banks, including our undrawn capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, and proceeds from future issuances of debt and equity securities (including issuances under any future “at-the-market” program) for the next 12 months and in future periods. All of the Lease Agreements call for an initial term of between fifteen and thirty years with additional tenant renewal options and are designed to provide us with a reliable and predictable long-term revenue stream. Our cash flows from operations and our ability to access capital resources could be adversely affected due to uncertain economic factors and volatility in the financial and credit markets, including as a result of the current inflationary environment, sustained rising interest rates, equity market volatility, changes in consumer behavior and spending and the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, we can provide no assurances that our tenants will not default on their leases or fail to make full rental payments if their businesses become challenged due to, among other things, current or future adverse economic conditions. See “Overview — Impact of Material Trends on our Business” above for additional detail.  In the event our tenants are unable to make all of their contractual rent payments as provided by the Lease Agreements, we believe we have sufficient liquidity from the other sources discussed above to meet all of our contractual obligations for a significant period of time. Additionally, we do not have any debt maturities until May 2024. For more information, refer to the risk factors incorporated by reference into . Our ability to raise funds through the issuance of debt and equity securities and access to other third-party sources of capital in the future will be dependent on, among other things, general economic conditions, general market conditions for REITs and investment grade issuers, market perceptions, the trading price of our stock and uncertainties related to the macroeconomic environment. We will continue to analyze which sources of capital are most advantageous to us at any particular point in time, but financing available through the capital markets may not be consistently available on terms we deem attractive, or at all. 62 Material Cash Requirements Contractual Obligations Our short-term obligations consist primarily of regular interest payments on our debt obligations, dividends to our common stockholders, distributions to the VICI OP Unit holders, normal recurring operating expenses, recurring expenditures for corporate and administrative needs, certain lease and other contractual commitments related to our golf operations and certain non-recurring expenditures. For more information on our material contractual commitments, refer to . Our long-term obligations consist primarily of principal payments on our outstanding debt obligations and future funding commitments under our lease and loan agreements. As of December 31, 2022, we had $15.5 billion of debt obligations outstanding (inclusive of $1.5 billion of secured debt representing our 50.1% pro-rata interest of the $3.0 billion property-level debt secured by the MGM Grand Las Vegas and Mandalay Bay held in the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV), none of which are maturing in the next twelve months. For a summary of principal debt balances and their maturity dates and principal terms, refer to . For a summary of our future funding commitments under our loan portfolio, refer to . Pursuant to our Lease Agreements, capital expenditures, insurance and taxes for our properties are the responsibility of the tenants. Minimum capital expenditure spending requirements of the tenants pursuant to the Lease Agreements are described in . Information concerning our material contractual obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts such as our indebtedness, future funding commitments under our loans and Partner Property Growth Fund and future contractual operating commitments (such as future lease payments under our corporate lease) are included in the following table as of December 31, 2022, including material subsequent events. Amounts in this table omit, among other things, non-contractual commitments and items such as dividends and recurring or non-recurring operating expenses and other expenditures, including acquisitions and other investments: ________________________________________ (1) As of December 31, 2022, our 50.1% pro-rata share of the $3.0 billion MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay CMBS JV debt was part of the balance of our Investment in unconsolidated affiliate on our Balance Sheets. Subsequent to year-end, on January 9, 2023, upon closing of the MGM Grand/Mandalay Bay JV Acquisition and consolidating the operations in the first quarter of 2023 the balance of the $3.0 billion debt, net of the fair value adjustment, will be presented in Debt, net on our Balance Sheets. The property-level debt has a principal balance of $3.0 billion, bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.558% per annum through March 2030, and matures in 2032. (2) Subsequent to year-end, on January 3, 2023, we drew on the Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of C$140.0 million (approximately US$103.4 million based on the exchange rate at the time of the acquisition) to fund a portion of the purchase price of the PURE Canadian Gaming Transaction. (3) The allocation of our future funding commitments is based on a construction draw schedule, commitment funding date, expiration date or other information, as applicable; however, we may be obligated to fund these commitments earlier than such applicable date. 63 Additional Funding Requirements In addition to the contractual obligations and commitments set forth in the table above, we have and may enter into additional agreements that commit us to potentially acquire properties in the future, fund future property improvements or otherwise provide capital to our tenants, borrowers and other counterparties, including through our put-call agreements and Partner Property Growth Fund. As of December 31, 2022, we had $1.0 billion of potential future funding commitments under our Partner Property Growth Fund agreements, the use of which are at the sole discretion of our tenants and will be dependent upon independent decisions made by our tenants with respect to any capital improvement projects and the source of funds for such projects, as well as the total funding ultimately provided under such arrangements. Cash Flow Analysis The table below summarizes our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities increased $1,047.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase is primarily driven by an increase in cash rental payments from the addition of the MGM Master Lease, Venetian Lease and Foundation Master Lease to our real estate portfolio, the annual rent escalators on our Caesars Lease and certain of our other Lease Agreements, the proceeds from settlement of our forward-starting derivative instruments in connection with the April 2022 Notes offering and an increase in loan income as a result of an increase in the principal balance of our loan portfolio. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased $9,345.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities included: • Net payments of $4,574.5 million in relation to the closing of the MGP Transactions, including $4,404.0 million in connection with the redemption of the majority of the MGP OP units held by MGM, $90.0 million in connection with the repayment of the outstanding MGP revolving credit facility and acquisition costs; • Payments for the Venetian Acquisition and the funding of the Partner Property Growth Fund investment for Century Casino Caruthersville for a total cost of $4,017.9 million, including acquisition costs; • Payments for the Foundation Gaming Transaction for a total cost of $296.7 million, including acquisition costs; • Investment in short-term investments, net of maturities, of $217.3 million; • Disbursements to fund portions of the Fontainebleau Las Vegas Loan, Canyon Ranch Austin Loan, Great Wolf Gulf Coast Texas Loan, Great Wolf South Florida Loan, Cabot Citrus Farms Loan, BigShots Loan and Great Wolf Maryland loan, in the aggregate amount of $193.7 million; and • Capitalized transaction costs of $7.7 million . During the year ended December 31, 2021, the primary sources and uses of cash from investing activities included: • Proceeds from the repayment of a certain loan with JACK Entertainment and receipt of deferred fees of $70.4 million; • Payments to fund a portion of the Great Wolf Maryland loan totaling $33.6 million; • Proceeds from net maturities of short-term investments of $20.0 million; 64 • Proceeds from the sale of Louisiana Downs and certain parcels of vacant land in the aggregate amount of $13.3 million; • Final disbursement for the funding of a new gaming patio amenity at JACK Thistledown Racino o f $6.0 million ; and • Capitalized transaction costs of $20.7 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased $7,344.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities included: • Gross proceeds of $5,000.0 million from the April 2002 Notes offering; • Net proceeds of $3,219.1 million from the sale of an aggregate 119,000,000 shares of our common stock pursuant to the full physical settlement of the September 2021 Forward Sale Agreements and March 2021 Forward Sale Agreements; • Dividend payments of $1,219.1 million; • Initial draw and repayment of $600.0 million on our Revolving Credit Facility; • Debt issuance costs of $146.2 million; • Distributions of $17.7 million to non-controlling interests; and • Repurchase of shares of common stock for tax withholding in connection with the vesting of employee stock compensation of $6.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the primary sources and uses of cash from financing activities included: • Net proceeds from the sale of an aggregate of $2,385.8 million of our common stock from our September 2021 equity offering and pursuant to the full physical settlement of the June 2020 Forward Sale Agreement; • Full repayment of the $2,100.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of our Term Loan B Facility; • Dividend payments of $758.8 million; • Debt issuance costs of $31.1 million; and • Distributions of $8.3 million to non-controlling interest. Debt For a summary of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2022, refer to . For a summary of our financing activities in 2022 refer to “Summary of Significant 2022 Activity - Financing and Capital Markets Activity” above . Covenants Our debt obligations are subject to certain customary financial and operating covenants that restrict our ability to incur additional debt, sell certain asset and restrict certain payments, among other things. In addition, these covenants are subject to a number of important exceptions and qualifications, including, with respect to the restricted payments covenant, the ability to make unlimited restricted payments to maintain our REIT status. At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all required debt-related covenants, including financial covenants. 65 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP which requires us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting estimates, which are those that have a significant level of estimation uncertainty, requiring our most difficult, subjective and complex judgments, and significantly impacts the Balance Sheet and Statement of Operations in the reporting period. Actual results may differ from the estimates. Refer to for a full discussion of our accounting policies. Purchase Accounting Our property acquisitions are accounted for under ASC 805 - Business Combinations (“ASC 805”), which requires that we allocate the purchase price of our properties to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as applicable. Our acquired properties generally meet the definition of an asset acquisition under ASC 805-50 and we typically allocate the cost of real estate acquired, inclusive of capitalizable transaction costs, to (i) land, (ii) building and improvements and (iii) site improvements, based in each case on their relative estimated fair values using industry standard practices such as market comparables and the cost approach. In an acquisition of multiple properties, we must also allocate the purchase price among the properties, and in certain cases investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which is based on the (a) asset quality and location, (b) property and lease-level operating performance and (c) supply and demand dynamics of each property’s respective market. In addition, any assumed mortgages are recorded at their estimated fair values. Such allocations use significant estimates which can impact the determination of the accounting as a business combination or asset acquisition and the allocation to the differing components of an acquisition. Management uses industry standard practices to estimate the value assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition, including the value assigned to each property, the liabilities assumed, as applicable, and the land and building property components within each property. Although management believes its estimate of both the value assigned to each property and to the land and building property components within each property is reasonable, no assurance can be given that such amounts will be correct. In particular, a change in the estimates could have a material impact on the business combination determination and the timing and amount of income recognized over the life of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Lease Accounting We account for our investments in leases under ASC 842 “Leases” (“ASC 842”), which requires significant estimates and judgments by management in its application. Upon lease inception or lease modification, we assess the lease classification of both the land and building components of the property to determine whether each component should be classified as a direct financing, sales-type or operating lease. The determination of lease classification requires the calculation of the rate implicit in the lease, which is driven by significant estimates, including the estimation of both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition (as further described in “—Purchase Accounting” above) and the estimation of the unguaranteed residual value of such components at the end of the non-cancelable lease term. If the lease component is determined to be a direct financing or sales-type lease, revenue is recognized over the life of the lease using the rate implicit in the lease. Management uses industry standard practices to estimate both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition and the unguaranteed residual value of such components, including comparable sales and replacement cost analyses. Although management believes its estimate of both the value assigned to the land and building property components upon acquisition and the unguaranteed residual value of such components is reasonable, no assurance can be given that such amounts will be correct. In particular a change in the estimates could have a material impact on the lease classification determination and the timing and amount of income recognized over the life of the lease. Allowance for Credit Losses ASC 326 requires that we measure and record current expected credit losses (“CECL”) for the majority of our investments, the scope of which includes our Investments in leases - sales-type, Investments in leases - financing receivables and Investments in loans. We have elected to use a discounted cash flow model to estimate the Allowance for credit losses, or CECL allowance. This model requires us to develop cash flows which project estimated credit losses over the life of the lease or loan and discount these cash flows at the asset’s effective interest rate. We then record a CECL allowance equal to the difference between the amortized cost basis of the asset and the present value of the expected credit loss cash flows. Expected losses within our cash flows are determined by estimating the probability of default (“PD”) and loss given default (“LGD”) of our tenants and their parent guarantors over the life of each individual lease or financial asset. The PD and LGD are estimated during a reasonable and supportable period for which we believe we are able to estimate future economic conditions 66 (the “R&S Period”) and a long-term period for which we revert to long-term historical averages (the “Long-Term Period”). We are unable to use our historical data to estimate losses as we have no loss history to date. Given the length of our leases, the Long-Term Period PD and LGD are the most material and significant drivers of the CECL allowance. The PD and LGD for the Long-Term Period are estimated using the average historical default rates and historical loss rates, respectively, of public companies over the past 40 years that have similar credit profiles or characteristics to our tenants and their parent guarantors. We have engaged a nationally recognized data analytics firm to assist us with estimating both the PD and LGD of our tenants and their parent guarantors. Changes to the Long-Term Period PD and LGD are generally driven by (i) updated studies from the nationally recognized data analytics firm we employ to assist us with calculating the allowance and (ii) changes in the credit rating assigned to our tenants and their parent guarantors. The following table illustrates the impact on the CECL allowance of our investment portfolio as a result of a 10% increase and decrease in the weighted average percentages used to estimate Long-Term PD and LGD of all of our tenants and their parent guarantors: Although management believes its estimate of the Long-Term PD and LGD described above is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the Long-Term PD and LGD for our tenants, or other drivers of the CECL allowance, will be correct. Any significant variation of Long-Term PD or LGD from management’s expectations could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results.