********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. These Risk Factors should be carefully reviewed in conjunction with Management ' s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in of this Report. Business and Operating Risks We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our U.S. and Canadian operations. Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our U.S. and Canadian operations, which comprised 86% and 85% of net sales and operating income in 2024. Within the U.S., we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 27% of U.S. net sales in 2024. Our California market, in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other domestic markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our U.S. operations, particularly in California, and our Canadian operations could arise from, among other things: slow growth or declines in comparable warehouse sales (comparable sales); negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; failing to meet targets for warehouse openings; cannibalizing existing locations with new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets, including higher levels of unemployment and depressed home values; and failing to consistently provide high quality and innovative new products. We may be unsuccessful implementing our growth strategy, including expanding our business in existing markets and new markets, and integrating acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property and build or lease new warehouses and depots. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses and depots, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses or depots at specific sites and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations, may impact our ability to find suitable locations and increase the cost of sites and of constructing, leasing and operating warehouses and depots. We also may have difficulty negotiating leases or purchase agreements on acceptable terms. In addition, certain jurisdictions have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would prevent or restrict the operation or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us. Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors may affect our ability to timely build or lease and operate new warehouses and depots, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and profitability. We seek to expand in existing markets to attain a greater overall market share. A new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and adversely affect their comparable sales performance, member traffic, and profitability. We intend to continue to open warehouses in new markets. Associated risks include difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators, our lesser familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. Entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. We cannot ensure that new warehouses and new e-commerce sites will be profitable and future profitability could be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. 9 We have made and may continue to make investments and acquisitions to improve the speed, accuracy and efficiency of our supply chains and delivery channels. The effectiveness of these investments can be less predictable than opening new locations and might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired rates of return. Our failure to maintain membership growth, loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our results of operations. Membership loyalty and growth are essential to our business. The extent to which we achieve growth in our membership base, increase the penetration of Executive membership, and sustain high renewal rates materially influences our profitability. Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact comparable sales, diminish member trust, and reduce renewal rates and, accordingly, net sales and membership fee revenue, negatively impacting our results of operations. We sell many products under our Kirkland Signature brand. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of these products is essential to developing and maintaining member loyalty. These products also generally carry higher margins than national brand products and represent a growing portion of our overall sales. If the Kirkland Signature brand experiences a loss of member acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margin results could be adversely affected. Disruptions in merchandise distribution or processing, packaging, manufacturing, and other facilities could adversely affect sales and member satisfaction. We depend on the orderly operation of the merchandise receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. We also rely upon processing, packaging, manufacturing and other facilities to support our business, which includes the production of certain private-label items. Although we believe that our operations are efficient, disruptions due to extreme weather, pandemics or other catastrophic events, labor issues, work stoppage, or other shipping problems may result in delays in the production and delivery of merchandise to and the operation of our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our members. Our e-commerce operations depend heavily on logistics providers, both internal and external, and are negatively affected when services are unable to be provided in a timely fashion. We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer tastes and preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services that our members will desire. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to identify timely or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns including those related to resource efficiency, environmental protection, human rights, and the transition to a low-carbon economy could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. We sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be impacted by concerns and regulation about climate change. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns, or we may experience out-of-stock positions and delivery delays, which could result in higher costs, both of which would reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on net sales, gross margin and operating income. Availability and performance of our IT systems are vital to our business. Failure to successfully execute IT projects and have IT systems available to our business would adversely impact our operations. 10 IT systems play a crucial role in conducting our business. These systems are utilized to process a very high volume of transactions, conduct payment transactions, track and value our inventory and produce reports critical for making business decisions. Failure or disruption of these systems could have an adverse impact on our ability to buy products and services from our suppliers, produce goods in our manufacturing plants, move the products in an efficient manner to our warehouses and sell products to our members. Given the high volume of transactions we process, it is important that we build strong digital resiliency to prevent disruption from events such as power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, viruses, internal or external security breaches and other cybersecurity incidents, errors by employees, extreme weather, and catastrophic events. Any debilitating failure of our critical IT systems, data centers and backup systems would require significant investments in resources to restore IT services and may cause serious impairment in our business operations including loss of business services, increased cost of moving merchandise and failure to provide service to our members. We are currently making substantial investments in technology and IT transformation projects, including maintaining and enhancing our digital resiliency, and failure or delay in these projects could be costly and harmful to our business. Failure to deliver IT transformation efforts efficiently and effectively could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Insufficient IT capacity could also impact our capacity for timely, complete and accurate financial and non-financial reporting required by law. We are required to maintain the privacy and security of personal and business information amidst multiplying threat landscapes and in compliance with increasing privacy and data protection regulations globally. Failure to do so could damage our business, including our reputation with members, suppliers and employees, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and become subject to litigation and regulatory action. Increased security threats and more sophisticated cyber misconduct pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. We rely upon IT systems and networks, some of which are managed by or belong to third parties, including suppliers, partners, vendors, and service providers. Additionally, we collect, store and process sensitive information relating to our business, members, employees, and other third parties. Operating these IT systems and networks, and processing and maintaining this data, in a secure manner, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Remote work has also expanded the possible attack surfaces. Attempts to gain unauthorized access to systems, networks and data, both ours and third parties with whom we work, are increasing in frequency and sophistication, and in some cases, these attempts are successful. Cybersecurity attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crimes and advanced persistent threats. Phishing attacks have emerged as particularly prominent, including as vectors for ransomware attacks, which have increased in breadth and frequency. While we train our employees as part of our security efforts, that training cannot be completely effective. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our data. Our IT systems and networks, or those managed by third parties such as cloud providers or suppliers that otherwise host or have access to confidential information, periodically have vulnerabilities, which may go unnoticed for a period of time. Our logging capabilities, or the logging capabilities of third parties, are also not always complete or sufficiently detailed, affecting our ability to fully investigate and understand the scope of security events. While our cybersecurity and compliance efforts seek to mitigate such risks, there can be no guarantee that the actions and controls we and our third-party service providers have implemented and are implementing, will be sufficient to protect our systems, information or other property. The potential impacts of a cybersecurity attack include reputational damage, litigation, government enforcement actions, penalties, disruption to systems and operations, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, corruption of data, diminution in the value of our investment in IT systems and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. This could adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition and, critically in light of our business model, loss of member confidence. Further, the insurance coverage we maintain and indemnification arrangements with third parties may be inadequate to cover claims, costs, and liabilities relating to 11 cybersecurity incidents. In addition, data we collect, store and process is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations (such as the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, California Consumer Privacy Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and China's Personal Information Protection Act), evolving rules concerning artificial intelligence, and other privacy and cybersecurity laws and restrictions on use of member information that may also impair our ability to utilize data, consistent with member consents and preferences, which may carry significant potential penalties for noncompliance. We are subject to payment-related risks. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including select credit and debit cards, cash and checks, co-brand cardholder rebates, Executive member 2% reward certificates, and our shop card. As we offer new payment options to our members, we may be subject to additional rules, regulations, compliance requirements, and higher fraud losses. For certain payment methods, we pay interchange and other related acceptance fees, along with additional transaction processing fees. We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services for credit and debit cards and our shop card. It could disrupt our business if these parties become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to fee increases by these service providers. We must comply with evolving payment card association and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers. For example, we are subject to Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which contain compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. If our internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card re-issuance costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept card payments from our members, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our failure to offer payment methods desired by our members could create a competitive disadvantage. We might sell products that cause illness or injury to our members, harm to our reputation, and expose us to litigation. If our merchandise, including food and prepared food products for human consumption, drugs, children ' s products, pet products and durable goods, do not meet or are perceived not to meet applicable safety or labeling standards or our members ' expectations, we could experience lost sales, increased costs, litigation or reputational harm. The sale of these items involves the risk of illness or injury to our members. Such illnesses or injuries could result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation phases, or faulty design. Our suppliers are generally contractually required to comply with product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with safety and other standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption or use of our products will not cause illness or injury or that we will not be subject to claims, lawsuits, or government investigations relating to such matters, resulting in costly product recalls and other liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential members and our corporate and brand image, and these effects could be long-term. If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omnichannel experience for our members, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing member expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our members are increasingly using mobile phones, tablets, computers, and other devices to shop and to interact with us through social media. We are making 12 investments in our websites and mobile applications. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant member-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our employees, including members of our senior management and other key operations, IT, merchandising and administrative personnel. Failure to identify and implement a succession plan for senior management could negatively impact our business. We must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to numerous internal and external factors, including regulatory changes, prevailing wage rates, union relations and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by our insurance. Claims for employee health care benefits, workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage, directors’ and officers’ liability, vehicle liability, inventory loss, and other exposures are funded predominantly through self-insurance. Insurance coverage is maintained for certain risks to limit exposures arising from very large losses. The types and amounts of insurance may vary from time to time based on our decisions with respect to risk retention and regulatory requirements. Significant claims or events, regulatory changes, a substantial rise in costs of health care or costs to maintain our insurance or the failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain specific coverages for catastrophic property losses, we still bear a significant portion of the risk of losses incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption. Such losses could materially impact our cash flows and results of operations. Market and Other External Risks We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, sites, products and services and in other important respects with a wide range of local, regional and national wholesalers and retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries, including other warehouse-club operators, supermarkets, supercenters, online retailers, gasoline stations, hard discounters, department and specialty stores and operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise. Such retailers and warehouse club operators compete vigorously and in a variety of ways, including pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, store hours, and the attractiveness and ease of use of websites and mobile applications. The evolution of retailing in online and mobile channels has improved the ability of customers to comparison shop, which has enhanced competition. Some competitors have greater financial resources and technology capabilities, including the faster adoption of artificial intelligence, better access to merchandise, and greater market penetration than we do. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, changes in the retail markets or customer expectations could result in lost market share and negatively affect our financial results. 13 General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Higher energy and gasoline costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, foreign-currency exchange rates, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes and uncertainties related to government fiscal, monetary and tax policies including changes in interest rates, tax rates, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions, sovereign debt crises, pandemics and other health crises, and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services, require a change in product mix, or impact the cost of or ability to purchase inventory. Additionally, trade-related actions in various countries, particularly China and the United States, have affected the costs of some of our merchandise. The degree of our exposure is dependent on (among other things) the type of goods, rates imposed, and timing of the tariffs. The impact to our net sales and gross margin is influenced in part by our merchandising and pricing strategies in response to potential cost increases. Higher tariffs could adversely impact our results. Prices of certain commodities, including gasoline and consumable goods used in manufacturing and our warehouse retail operations, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, inflationary pressures, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, taxes and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices and our ability and desire to pass them through to our members may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors could also increase our merchandise costs and selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial results. General economic conditions can also be affected by events like the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism. Inflationary factors such as increases in merchandise costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adjust prices to sufficiently offset the effect of cost increases without negatively impacting consumer demand. Suppliers may be unable to timely supply us with quality merchandise at competitive prices or may fail to adhere to our high standards, resulting in adverse effects on our business, merchandise inventories, sales, and profit margins. We depend heavily on our ability to purchase quality merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. As the quantities we require continue to grow, we have no assurances of continued supply, appropriate pricing or access to new products, and any supplier has the ability to change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to out-of-stock positions causing a loss of sales and profits. We buy from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers and importers. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key suppliers could negatively affect us. We may not be able to develop relationships with new suppliers, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive. Because of our efforts to adhere to high-quality standards for which available supply may be limited, particularly for certain food items, the large volumes we demand may not be consistently available. Our efforts to secure supply could lead to commitments that prove to be unsuccessful in the short and long-term. Our suppliers (and those they depend upon for materials and services) are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, human and animal rights violations, financial liquidity, climate change, natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, environmental degradation, public health emergencies, supply constraints and general economic and political conditions and other risks similar to those we face that could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise. One or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, packaging, legal, regulatory, labor, human rights, environmental or animal welfare standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might not be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This 14 failure could lead to recalls and litigation and otherwise damage our reputation and our brands, increase costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. During 2024, our international operations, including Canada, generated 28% and 33% of our net sales and operating income. Our international operations have accounted for an increasing portion of our warehouses, and we plan to continue international growth. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we translate the financial statements of our international operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. Future fluctuations in exchange rates that are unfavorable to us may adversely affect the financial performance of our Canadian and Other International operations and have a corresponding adverse period-over-period effect on our results of operations. As we continue to expand internationally, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may increase. A portion of the products we purchase is paid for in a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods are sold. Currency fluctuations may increase our merchandise costs and may not be passed on to members and thus may adversely affect our results of operations. Natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, or other catastrophic events could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, including those impacted by climate change, such as extreme temperatures, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, earthquakes, wildfires, droughts; acts of terrorism or violence, including active shooter situations; and energy shortages; particularly in California or Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to our properties, additional heating, cooling, and refrigeration costs, limitations on store operating hours, less frequent visits by members to physical locations, the temporary closure of warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office facilities, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, disruptions to our IT systems, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local or overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods to or from overseas, damage to buildings or inventory, delays in the delivery of goods to our warehouses or depots, the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses, and long-term disruption or threats to the habitability of key markets in which we operate. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to procure products. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pandemics and other health crises could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in many respects. The emergence, severity, magnitude and duration of global or regional health crises are uncertain and difficult to predict. A pandemic could affect certain business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, availability of labor, access to inventory, supply chain operations, our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among other things. Other factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: • The severity and duration of pandemics; • Evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures; • Changes in labor markets affecting us and our suppliers; • Unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time and other resources to the pandemic response; • The pace of post-pandemic recovery; • The long-term impact of the pandemic on our business, including consumer behaviors; and • Disruption and volatility within the financial and credit markets. 15 Failure to meet financial market expectations could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. We believe that the price of our stock currently reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our warehouse and e-commerce comparable sales growth rates, membership renewal rates, new member sign-ups, gross margin, earnings, earnings per share, new warehouse openings, or dividend or stock repurchase policies could cause the price of our stock to decline. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. At the end of 2024, we operated 276 warehouses outside of the U.S. (31% of all warehouse locations), and we plan to continue expanding our international operations. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many similar to those we face in the U.S., certain of which are beyond our control. These factors include political and economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations, policy changes, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may impact international operations include foreign trade (including tariffs and trade sanctions), monetary and fiscal policies and the laws and regulations of the U.S. and foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities in locations which have been historically less stable than the U.S. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences, and difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. New reporting obligations globally are increasing the cost and complexity of doing business. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations we apply to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including self-insurance liabilities, are highly complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in rules or interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance and have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and otherwise. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately and to prepare financial statements within required time periods could be adversely affected, which could subject us to litigation or investigations requiring management resources and payment of legal and other expenses, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements and adversely impact our stock price. Uncertainties around our developing systems concerning controls for non-financial reporting also create risks. Changes in tax rates, new U.S. or foreign tax legislation, and exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection and remittance obligations in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, at any point in time, we may be under examination for value 16 added, sales-based, payroll, product, import or other non-income taxes. We may recognize additional tax expense, be subject to additional tax liabilities, or incur losses and penalties, due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, assessments by authorities and interpretations related to tax, including tax rules in various jurisdictions. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, changes in the enacted tax rates or adverse outcomes in tax audits, including transfer pricing disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in or failure to comply with environmental, social, or governance (ESG) regulations could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide and increasingly broad array of laws and regulations globally relating to ESG matters, including disclosure and compliance requirements. These laws and regulations, along with expanding voluntary reporting, are expanding the scope and complexity of matters that we are required to regulate, assess, and disclose and potentially limit our sourcing flexibility. Failure to comply with these laws could result in harm to our members, employees, workers in the value chain or others, significant costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operations at our facilities require the treatment and disposal of wastewater, stormwater and agricultural and food processing wastes, the use and maintenance of refrigeration systems, including ammonia-based chillers, noise, odor and dust management, the operation of mechanized processing equipment, and other operations that potentially could affect the environment and public health and safety. Failure to comply with current and future environmental, health and safety standards could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, illness or injury of our employees, and claims or lawsuits related to such illnesses or injuries, and temporary closures or limits on the operations of facilities. Natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity are used in our operations, distribution channels, and value chain. Government regulations limiting carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental restrictions may increase compliance, operations, and merchandise costs, and other regulations affecting energy inputs could materially affect our profitability. More stringent fuel economy standards, changing public policies aimed at increasing the adoption of zero-emission and alternative fuel vehicles, and other regulations related to climate change may affect our future operations, adversely impact certain elements of our profitability, and require significant capital expenditures. Failure or perceived failure to meet our ESG goals or expectations set by growing public interest and government regulation of ESG topics could result in reputational harm or adversely affect our business Costco has set public targets and disclosed intentions for future action regarding sustainability. There are dependencies outside of our control impacting our ability to meet our goals, including but not limited to: economic conditions, ability to access technology at an appropriate cost or scale, the ability to procure sufficient clean energy at competitive market rates to meet future operational and supplier needs, unforeseen operational and implementation challenges, termination or contraction of policies or systems which support our capital investments, and collaboration with third parties. We may not make adequate and timely investments or successfully implement strategies that will effectively achieve our sustainability-related goals, which could lead to reputational harm with members and other stakeholders. 17 We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits and some of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires compliance with many laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings and lead to damage awards, fines, penalties, and remediation costs. We are or may become involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, including grand jury investigations, government and agency investigations, and consumer, employment, tort, unclaimed property laws, and other litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these proceedings, audits, unclaimed property laws, and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management ' s attention and resources.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is intended to provide information to assist you in better understanding and evaluating The Cigna Group's financial condition as of December 31, 2023 compared with December 31, 2022 and our results of operations for 2023 compared with 2022 and 2021 and is intended to help you understand the ongoing trends in our business. We adopted amended accounting guidance for long-duration insurance contracts effective January 1, 2023. This MD&A has been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the new basis of accounting. The impact of this amended guidance is immaterial. Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2023, our U.S. Commercial and U.S. Government operating segments were merged to form the U.S. Healthcare operating segment within the Cigna Healthcare reportable segment. For comparisons of our results of operations for 2022 compared with 2021, please refer to the previously filed MD&A included in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. We encourage you to read this MD&A in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("Form 10-K") and the "Risk Factors" contained in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Unless otherwise indicated, financial information in this MD&A is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the Company's significant accounting policies and additional information regarding the adoption of amended accounting guidance for long-duration insurance contracts effective January 1, 2023. In some of our financial tables in this MD&A, we present either percentage changes or "N/M" when those changes are so large as to become not meaningful. Changes in percentages are expressed in basis points ("bps"). In this MD&A, our consolidated measures "adjusted income from operations," earnings per share on that same basis and "adjusted revenues" are not determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as substitutes for the most directly comparable GAAP measures of "shareholders' net income," "earnings per share" and "total revenues." We also use pre-tax adjusted income (loss) from operations and adjusted revenues to measure the results of our segments. The Company uses "pre-tax adjusted income (loss) from operations" and "adjusted revenues" as its principal financial measures of segment operating performance because management believes these metrics best reflect the underlying results of business operations and permit analysis of trends in underlying revenue, expenses and profitability. We define adjusted income from operations as shareholders' net income (or income before income taxes less pre-tax income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests for the segment metric) excluding net realized investment results, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and special items. The Cigna Group's share of certain realized investment results of its joint ventures reported in the Cigna Healthcare segment using the equity method of accounting are also excluded. Special items are matters that management believes are not representative of the underlying results of operations due to their nature or size. Adjusted income (loss) from operations is measured on an after-tax basis for consolidated results and on a pre-tax basis for segment results. Consolidated adjusted income (loss) from operations is not determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute for the most directly comparable GAAP measure, shareholders' net income. See the below Financial Highlights section for a reconciliation of consolidated adjusted income from operations to shareholders' net income. The Company defines adjusted revenues as total revenues excluding the following adjustments: special items and The Cigna Group's share of certain realized investment results of its joint ventures reported in the Cigna Healthcare segment using the equity method of accounting. Special items are matters that management believes are not representative of the underlying results of operations due to their nature or size. We exclude these items from this measure because management believes they are not indicative of past or future underlying performance of the business. Adjusted revenues is not determined in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute for the most directly comparable GAAP measure, total revenues. See the below Financial Highlights section for a reconciliation of consolidated adjusted revenues to total revenues. 51 EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW The Cigna Group, together with its subsidiaries (either individually or collectively referred to as the "Company," "we," "us" or "our") is a global health company with a mission of helping those we serve improve their health and vitality. Our subsidiaries offer a differentiated set of pharmacy, medical, behavioral, dental and related products and services. For further information on our business and strategy, see Part 1, Item 1, "Business" of this Form 10-K. Financial Highlights See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our segments. Effective January 1, 2023, we adopted amended accounting guidance for long-duration insurance contracts. Prior period financial highlights and results of operations have been retrospectively adjusted to conform to this new basis of accounting. The impact of this amended guidance is immaterial. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Summarized below are certain key measures of our performance by segment: (1) Includes the Company's share of certain realized investment results of its joint ventures reported in the Cigna Healthcare segment using the equity method of accounting. For further analysis and explanation of each segment's results, see the "Segment Reporting" section of this MD&A. 52 (1) Includes the Company's share of certain realized investment results of its joint ventures reported in the Cigna Healthcare segment using the equity method of accounting. 53 (1) Includes the Company's share of certain realized investment results of its joint ventures reported in the Cigna Healthcare segment using the equity method of accounting. Commentary: 2023 versus 2022 The commentary presented below, and in the segment discussions that follow, compare results for the year ended December 31, 2023 with results for the year ended December 31, 2022. Shareholders' net income decreased 23%, reflecting the estimated loss associated with the sale of our Medicare Advantage, Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Plans, Medicare and Other Supplemental Benefits and CareAllies businesses (the "HCSC transaction"), the absence of the gain on the sale of our life, accident and supplemental health benefits business in six countries sold on July 1, 2022 (the "Chubb transaction"), partially offset by foreign deferred tax benefits recorded in the fourth quarter of 2023 as described further under "effective tax rate" below. Adjusted income from operations increased 2%, primarily driven by higher earnings in our Cigna Healthcare and Evernorth Health Services segments, largely offset by the absence of earnings reported in the first half of 2022 from the businesses divested in the Chubb transaction and increased interest expense and pension costs. Medical customers increased 10%, reflecting growth in fee-based customers as well as in Individual and Family Plans and Medicare Advantage customers. See Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for definitions of Cigna Healthcare's market segments. Pharmacy revenues increased 7%, reflecting inflation on branded drugs as well as growth in specialty. See the "Segment Reporting - Evernorth Health Services Segment" section of this MD&A for further discussion. Premiums increased 11% reflecting insured customer growth and higher premium rates in Cigna Healthcare due to anticipated underlying medical cost trend. See the "Segment Reporting - Cigna Healthcare Segment" section of this MD&A for further discussion. These favorable effects were partially offset by a decline in premiums due to the Chubb transaction. Fees and other revenues increased 16%, primarily reflecting client growth from our continued affordability services within Evernorth Health Services. Net investment income increased 1%, primarily due to growth in average assets, largely offset by the unfavorable impact of the Chubb transaction. See the "Investment Assets" section of this MD&A for further discussion. Pharmacy and other service costs increased 7%, reflecting inflation on branded drugs as well as growth in specialty. Medical costs and other benefit expenses increased 13%, primarily reflecting insured customer growth and medical cost trend in Cigna Healthcare, partially offset by the impact of the Chubb transaction. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 13%, primarily driven by volume-related expenses in Cigna Healthcare due to business growth, as well as increased investments to support the onboarding of new clients and continued advancement of our digital 54 capabilities and care solutions in Evernorth Health Services. Increased expenses were also driven by costs reported in 2023 for an organizational efficiency plan and litigation settlements. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the Chubb transaction. Interest expense and other increased 18%, primarily reflecting higher interest rates on our indebtedness and increased pension costs. See the "Segment Reporting - Corporate" section of this MD&A for further discussion. (Loss) / gain on sale of businesses. The loss reported in 2023 primarily reflects asset write-downs and estimated costs related to the HCSC transaction. In 2022, the reported gain reflects the impact of the Chubb transaction, which closed on July 1, 2022. Realized investment results were substantially improved, primarily due to lower mark-to-market losses on investments. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. The effective tax rate decreased substantially driven by foreign deferred tax benefits. Also contributing to the decrease were favorable results relative to the Company's foreign operations and the release of uncertain tax positions resulting from favorable audit developments. These favorable effects were partially offset by the impact of the valuation allowance recorded resulting from the HCSC transaction. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recent Events Economic Conditions We continue to monitor global economic conditions, including inflation, labor market dynamics and recent geopolitical events. We continue to proactively address impacts to our pricing with third parties (including vendors, health care providers and drug providers), our investment portfolio and our workforce. We are also monitoring the potential impact on client and customer health care needs. Our results of operations or cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2023 were not materially impacted by inflation, labor market dynamics, or recent geopolitical events. For further information regarding risks we encounter in our business due to economic conditions, see "Risk Factors" contained in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Conflict in the Middle East The Cigna Group serves a limited number of customers and clients in the impacted regions in the Middle East. We have not experienced significant impacts to date on our investment portfolio, financial position or results of operations. For a more complete discussion of the risks we encounter in our business, see "Risk Factors" contained in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Key Transactions and Business Developments Sale of Medicare Advantage and Related Businesses In January 2024, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Plans, Medicare and Other Supplemental Benefits and CareAllies businesses within the U.S. Healthcare operating segment to Health Care Service Corporation ("HCSC") for $3.3 billion cash, subject to applicable regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Organizational Efficiency Plan During the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company approved a strategic realignment to drive greater operating effectiveness and efficiency. This plan positions us to be more efficient and focused to deliver differentiated value and services to our clients and customers. The Company recognized a charge in Selling, general and administrative expenses of $252 million, pre-tax ($193 million, after-tax). We expect substantially all of the accrued liability to be paid by the end of 2024. We expect to realize annualized after-tax savings of approximately $280 million. A significant portion of the savings is expected to be recognized in 2024. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. CarepathRx Health System Solutions In July 2023, Evernorth Health, Inc. acquired a minority interest in CarepathRx Health Systems Solutions ("CHSS"). CHSS provides integrated hospital pharmacy solutions to support patients across their complete health care journey. By pairing Evernorth Health Services' diverse specialty and care expertise with CHSS' robust pharmacy and infusion management capabilities, technology solutions and health system relationships, we can further improve, expand and accelerate pharmacy care delivery for the growing 55 number of patients with chronic and complex care needs. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this investment. VillageMD In 2023, the Company became a minority owner in VillageMD by investing $2.7 billion in VillageMD preferred equity. VillageMD (majority-owned by Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc.) provides health care services for individuals and communities across the United States, with primary, multi-specialty and urgent care providers serving patients in traditional clinic settings, in patients' homes and online appointments. VillageMD and its subsidiaries operate in 26 markets and are responsible for millions of patients. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this investment. Centene Corporation Effective January 1, 2024, Evernorth Health Services and Centene Corporation ("Centene") have a multi-year agreement to manage pharmacy benefit services and make prescription medications more accessible and affordable for Centene's approximately 20 million customers. In addition to greater savings on prescription drugs, Centene customers will also have access to Express Scripts' extensive national network of retail pharmacies. Medicare Star Quality Ratings ("Star Ratings") The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") uses a Star Rating system to measure how well Medicare Advantage ("MA") plans perform. Categories of measurement include quality of care and customer service. Star Ratings range from one to five stars. CMS recognizes plans with Star Ratings of four stars or greater with quality bonus payments and the ability to offer enhanced benefits. On October 13, 2023, CMS announced Medicare Star Ratings for bonus payments to be received in 2025. We estimate 67% of our MA customers to be in four star or greater plans for bonus payments to be received in 2024 and 2025 (based upon the current customer mix associated with the announced Star Ratings). See Part I, Item I, "Business - Regulation" section of this Form 10-K for further discussion of Star Ratings. Medicare Advantage Rates On March 31, 2023, CMS released the final Calendar Year 2024 Medicare Advantage Program and Part D Payment Policies (the "2024 Final Notice"). On January 31, 2024, CMS released the Calendar Year 2025 Advance Notice for Medicare Advantage and Part D Prescription Drug Programs (the "Advance Notice"). CMS will accept comments on the Advance Notice through March 1, 2024, before publishing the final rate announcement by April 1, 2024. The Advance Notice is subject to the required notice and comment period, and we cannot predict when or to what extent CMS will adopt the proposals in the Advance Notice. We are in the process of analyzing the potential implications of the Advance Notice. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity We maintain liquidity at two levels: the subsidiary level and the parent company level. Cash requirements at the subsidiary level generally consist of: • pharmacy, medical costs and other benefit payments; • expense requirements, primarily for employee compensation and benefits, information technology and facilities costs; • income taxes; and • debt service. 56 Our subsidiaries normally meet their liquidity requirements by: • maintaining appropriate levels of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments; • using cash flows from operating activities; • matching investment durations to those estimated for the related insurance and contractholder liabilities; • selling investments; and • borrowing from affiliates, subject to applicable regulatory limits. Cash requirements at the parent company level generally consist of: • debt service; • payment of declared dividends to shareholders; • lending to subsidiaries as needed; and • pension plan funding. The parent company normally meets its liquidity requirements by: • maintaining appropriate levels of cash and various types of marketable investments; • collecting dividends from its subsidiaries; • using proceeds from issuing debt and common stock; and • borrowing from its subsidiaries, subject to applicable regulatory limits. Dividends from our insurance, Health Maintenance Organization ("HMO") and certain foreign subsidiaries are subject to regulatory restrictions. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these restrictions. Most of the Evernorth Health Services segment operations are not subject to regulatory restrictions regarding dividends and therefore provide significant financial flexibility to The Cigna Group. With respect to our investment portfolio, we support the liquidity needs of our businesses by managing the duration of assets to be consistent with the duration of liabilities. We manage the portfolio to both optimize returns in the current economic environment and meet our liquidity needs. Cash flows were as follows: The following discussion explains variances in the various categories of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with the same period in 2022. For comparisons of liquidity and capital resources for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021, please refer to the previously filed MD&A included in Part II, Item 7 of our 2022 Form 10-K. 57 Operating activities Cash flows from operating activities consist principally of cash receipts and disbursements for pharmacy revenues and costs, premiums, fees, investment income, taxes, benefit costs and other expenses. Operating cash flows increased for the year ended December 31, 2023 due to higher insurance related liabilities, acceleration of cash proceeds from the accounts receivable factoring facility, lower income tax payments and higher CMS Part D annual settlement. Investing activities The Company invested $2.7 billion in VillageMD in 2023. This, combined with the absence of the net $4.9 billion proceeds received from the Chubb transaction in 2022, resulted in an increase in cash used in investing activities. Financing activities The Company had lower share repurchases and lower net debt outflows in 2023. These factors resulted in a decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2023. Capital Resources Our capital resources consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents and investments maintained at regulated subsidiaries required to underwrite insurance risks, cash flows from operating activities, our commercial paper program, credit agreements and the issuance of long-term debt and equity securities. Our businesses generate significant cash flow from operations, some of which is subject to regulatory restrictions relative to the amount and timing of dividend payments to the parent company. Dividends received from U.S. regulated subsidiaries were $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 and $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. This decrease was due in part to lower statutory earnings in 2022 and additional capital held at subsidiaries to support business growth, which is in line with our capital planning. Non-regulated subsidiaries also generate significant cash flow from operating activities, which is typically available immediately to the parent company for general corporate purposes. We prioritize our use of capital resources to: • invest in capital expenditures, primarily related to technology to support innovative solutions for our clients and customers, provide the capital necessary to maintain or improve the financial strength ratings of subsidiaries and to repay debt and fund pension obligations if necessary; • pay dividends to shareholders; • consider acquisitions and investments that are strategically and economically advantageous; and • return capital to shareholders through share repurchases. Funds Available Commercial Paper Program . The Cigna Group maintains a commercial paper program and may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes privately placed on a discount basis through certain broker-dealers at any time not to exceed an aggregate amount of $5.0 billion. The net proceeds of issuances have been and are expected to be used for general corporate purposes. The commercial paper program had approximately $1.2 billion outstanding at December 31, 2023. Revolving Credit Agreements. Our revolving credit agreements provide us with the ability to borrow amounts for general corporate purposes, including for the purpose of providing liquidity support if necessary under our commercial paper program discussed above. As of December 31, 2023, The Cigna Group's revolving credit agreements include: a $4.0 billion five-year revolving credit and letter of credit agreement that expires in April 2028; and a $1.0 billion 364-day revolving credit agreement that expires in April 2024. As of December 31, 2023, we had $5.0 billion of undrawn committed capacity under our revolving credit agreements (these amounts are available for general corporate purposes, including providing liquidity support for our commercial paper program), $3.8 billion of remaining capacity under our commercial paper program and $8.0 billion in cash and short-term investments, approximately $0.8 billion of which was held by the parent company or certain non-regulated subsidiaries. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our credit agreements and commercial paper program. Our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 40.1% at December 31, 2023 and 41.0% at December 31, 2022. 58 We actively monitor our debt obligations and engage in issuance or redemption activities as needed in accordance with our capital management strategy. Subsidiary Borrowings. In addition to the sources of liquidity discussed above, the parent company can borrow an additional $2.2 billion from its subsidiaries without further approvals as of December 31, 2023. Use of Capital Resources Long-term debt. In July 2023, we repaid $2.9 billion of senior notes at maturity. Capital expenditures . Capital expenditures for property, equipment and computer software were $1.6 billion in 2023 compared to $1.3 billion in the year ended December 31, 2022. This increase reflects our continued strategic investment in technology for future growth. We expect to deploy approximately $1.5 billion in capital expenditures in 2024. Anticipated capital expenditures will be funded primarily from operating cash flow. Dividends . The Cigna Group declared and paid quarterly cash dividends of $1.23 per share of its common stock during 2023, compared to quarterly cash dividends of $1.12 per share during 2022. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our dividend payments. On February 2, 2024, the Board of Directors declared the first quarter cash dividend of $1.40 per share of The Cigna Group common stock to be paid on March 21, 2024 to shareholders of record on March 6, 2024. The Cigna Group currently intends to pay regular quarterly dividends, with future declarations subject to approval by its Board of Directors and the Board's determination that the declaration of dividends remains in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The decision of whether to pay future dividends and the amount of any such dividends will be based on the Company's financial position, results of operations, cash flows, capital requirements, the requirements of applicable law and any other factors the Board may deem relevant. Share repurchases . We maintain a share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors, under which we may repurchase shares of our common stock from time to time. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price, general business and market conditions and alternate uses of capital. The share repurchase program may be effected through open market purchases in compliance with Rule 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), including through Rule 10b5-1 trading plans or privately negotiated transactions. The program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. We repurchased 7.8 million shares for approximately $2.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 27.4 million shares for approximately $7.6 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. In December 2023, the Board increased repurchase authority by an additional $10.0 billion. We expect to repurchase $5.0 billion of common stock in the first half of 2024. A portion of this repurchase was executed in February 2024 via an Accelerated Share Repurchase ("ASR") as described below. In February 2024, as part of our existing share repurchase program, we entered into separate ASR agreements ("2024 ASR agreements") with Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America, N.A. (collectively, the "2024 Counterparties") to repurchase $3.2 billion of common stock in aggregate. We remitted $3.2 billion to the 2024 Counterparties and received an initial delivery of approximately 7.6 million shares of our common stock on February 15, 2024 representing $2.6 billion of the total remitted. We expect final settlement under the 2024 ASR agreements to occur in the second quarter of 2024. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our 2024 ASR agreements. Including the impact of the 2024 ASR agreements, from January 1, 2024 through February 28, 2024, we repurchased 10.1 million shares for approximately $4.0 billion. Share repurchase authority was $7.3 billion as of February 28, 2024. Strategic investments. In 2023, we became a minority owner in VillageMD by investing $2.7 billion in VillageMD preferred equity. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this investment. In July 2023, Evernorth Health, Inc. acquired a minority interest in CHSS. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this investment. Pension plans. Our pension plans were overfunded by $204 million and $238 million as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, and reported in Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In 2023, we made immaterial contributions to the qualified pension plans as required under the Pension Protection Act of 2006 and we expect the required contributions for 2024 to be immaterial. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 59 Other Sources of Funds and Uses of Capital Resources Divestiture. In January 2024, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Plans, Medicare and Other Supplemental Benefits and CareAllies businesses within the U.S. Healthcare operating segment to HCSC, subject to applicable regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2025 and provide approximately $3.7B in transaction proceeds, which consists primarily of cash proceeds. Following the completion of the sale, we anticipate use of the proceeds in alignment with our capital deployment priorities, with the majority allocated to share repurchases. Debt Issuance and Debt Tender Offers. On February 5, 2024, we issued $4.5 billion of new senior notes. The proceeds from this debt were used to pay the consideration for the cash tender offers as described below. We intend to use the remaining net proceeds to fund the repayment of our senior notes maturing in March 2024 and for general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of indebtedness and repurchases of shares of our common stock. Concurrent with the debt issuance, we commenced tender offers to purchase for cash up to $2.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding notes, which included any and all of the $1.0 billion senior notes due June 2024. Following the early tender results, we increased the tender offers to up to $2.55 billion  aggregate principal amount. On February 22, 2024, we purchased $1.8 billion principal amount of notes at early settlement of the tender offers. The tender offers will expire on March 5, 2024. Risks to Liquidity and Capital Resources Risks to our liquidity and capital resources outlook include cash projections that may not be realized and the demand for funds could exceed available cash if our ongoing businesses experience unexpected shortfalls in earnings or we experience material adverse effects from one or more risks or uncertainties described more fully in the "Risk Factors" section of this Form 10-K. Though we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity, significant disruption or volatility in the capital and credit markets could affect our ability to access those markets for additional borrowings or increase costs. Guarantees and Contractual Obligations We are contingently liable for various contractual obligations and financial and other guarantees entered into in the ordinary course of business. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of various guarantees. The Company adopted amended accounting guidance for long-duration insurance contracts effective January 1, 2023, which impacted the amounts presented in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Within our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of this accounting change and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the insurance liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as well as future expected cash flow information. With the adoption of amended accounting guidance for long-duration insurance contracts and enhanced disclosure within Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we will no longer present additional information regarding insurance liabilities within this section. On balance sheet : • Long-term debt ◦ Total scheduled payments on long-term debt are $44.8 billion, which include scheduled interest payments and maturities of long-term debt. This excludes any impact from our February 2024 debt issuance and debt tender offers transactions as described above. ◦ We expect $2.8 billion of long-term debt payments (including scheduled interest payments) to be paid within the next twelve months beginning January 1, 2024. ◦ Finance leases are included in Long-term debt and primarily represent obligations for information technology network storage, servers and equipment. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding finance leases. ◦ See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding principal maturities of long-term debt. • Other non-current liabilities ◦ These include approximately $335 million of estimated payments (of which we expect $52 million to be paid in the next twelve months beginning January 1, 2024) for other postretirement and postemployment benefit obligations, reinsurance liabilities, supplemental and deferred compensation plans and interest rate and foreign currency swap contracts. ◦ In connection with our equity method investment in CarepathRx Health Systems Solutions ("CHSS"), we guaranteed CHSS's credit facilities. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. ◦ See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on pension obligations and funded status. 60 • Operating leases ◦ These include operating lease payments of $497 million (of which we expect $110 million of operating lease payments to be due within the next twelve months beginning January 1, 2024). ◦ See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. • Uncertain tax positions ◦ In the event we are unable to sustain all of our $1.4 billion of uncertain tax positions, it could result in future tax payments of approximately $950 million. We are adequately reserved for such positions. As a result, there is minimal direct risk to earnings should we fail to sustain our positions. We cannot reasonably estimate the timing of such future payments. ◦ See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on uncertain tax positions. Off-balance sheet : • Purchase obligations ◦ These include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding. Purchase obligations exclude contracts that are cancellable without penalty and those that do not contractually require minimum levels of goods or services to be purchased. ◦ As of December 31, 2023, purchase obligations consisted of a total of $4.3 billion of estimated payments required under contractual arrangements (of which we expect $1.3 billion of purchase obligations to be paid within the next twelve months beginning January 1, 2024). This includes: ▪ $2.8 billion of investment commitments (of which we expect $0.7 billion of the committed amounts to be disbursed in 2024). ▪ $1.5 billion of future service commitments (of which we expect $0.6 billion of the committed amounts to be disbursed in 2024), primarily comprised of contracts for certain outsourced business processes and information technology maintenance and support. ◦ See Note 12 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on investment commitments. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: • it requires assumptions to be made that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and • changes in the estimate or different estimates that could have been selected could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Management has discussed how critical accounting estimates are developed and selected with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures presented in this Form 10-K. We regularly evaluate items that may impact critical accounting estimates. 61 In addition to the estimates presented in the following tables, the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements describe other estimates that management has made in preparation of the financial statements. Management believes the current assumptions used to estimate amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience significantly differs from the assumptions used in estimating amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on liquidity and our financial condition. The tables below present the adverse impacts of certain possible changes in assumptions. The effect of assumption changes in the opposite direction would be a positive impact to our consolidated results of operations, liquidity or financial condition, except for assessing impairment of goodwill. 62 63 64 SEGMENT REPORTING The following section of this MD&A discusses the results of each of our segments. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of our segments. In segment discussions, we present "adjusted revenues" and "pre-tax adjusted income (loss) from operations," defined as income (loss) before income taxes excluding pre-tax income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, net realized investment results, amortization of acquired intangible assets and special items. The Cigna Group's share of certain realized investment results of its joint ventures reported in the Cigna Healthcare segment using the equity method of accounting are also excluded. Special items are matters that management believes are not representative of the underlying results of operations due to their nature or size. Ratios presented in this segment discussion exclude the same items as adjusted revenues and pre-tax adjusted income (loss) from operations. See Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion of these metrics and a reconciliation of Income before income taxes to pre-tax adjusted income from operations, as well as a reconciliation of Total revenues to adjusted revenues. Note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements also explains that segment revenues include both external revenues and sales between segments that are eliminated in Corporate. In these segment discussions, we also present "pre-tax adjusted margin," defined as pre-tax adjusted income (loss) from operations divided by adjusted revenues. See the "Executive Overview" section of this MD&A for summarized financial results of each of our segments. Evernorth Health Services Segment Evernorth Health Services partners with health plans, employers, governmental organizations and health care providers to solve challenges in the areas of pharmacy benefits, home delivery pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, specialty distribution, and care delivery and management solutions. As described in the introduction to Segment Reporting, Evernorth Health Services' performance is measured using adjusted revenues and pre-tax adjusted income (loss) from operations. The key factors that impact Evernorth Health Services' Pharmacy revenues, Fees and other revenues and Pharmacy and other service costs are volume, mix of claims and price. These key factors are discussed further below. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K for additional information on revenue and cost recognition policies for this segment. • As our clients' claim volumes increase or decrease, our resulting revenues and cost of revenues correspondingly increase or decrease. Our gross profit, defined as Total revenues less Pharmacy and other service costs, could also increase or decrease as a result of changes in purchasing discounts. • The mix of claims generally considers the type of drug and distribution method used for dispensing and fulfilling. Types of drugs can have an impact on our Pharmacy revenues, Pharmacy and other service costs and gross profit, including amounts payable under certain financial and performance guarantees with our clients. In addition to the types of drugs, the mix of generic claims (i.e., generic fill rate) also impacts our gross profit. Generally, higher generic fill rates reduce revenues, as generic drugs are typically priced lower than the branded drugs they replace. However, as ingredient cost paid to pharmacies on generic drugs is incrementally lower than the price charged to our clients, higher generic fill rates generally have a favorable impact on our gross profit. The home delivery generic fill rate is currently lower than the network generic fill rate as fewer generic substitutions are available among maintenance medications (such as therapies for chronic conditions) commonly dispensed from home delivery pharmacies as compared to acute medications that are primarily dispensed by pharmacies in our retail networks. Furthermore, our gross profit differs among network, home delivery and specialty distribution methods and can impact our profitability. • Our client contract pricing is impacted by our ongoing ability to negotiate favorable contracts for pharmacy network, pharmaceutical and wholesaler purchasing and manufacturer rebates on our clients' behalf. Through these affordability services, we seek to improve the effectiveness of our integrated solutions for the benefit of our clients by continuously innovating, improving affordability and implementing drug purchasing contract initiatives. Our revenues, cost of revenues and gross profit could increase or decrease as a result of these affordability services. Pharmaceutical manufacturer inflation also impacts our pricing because most of our contracts provide that we bill clients and pay pharmacies based on a generally recognized price index for pharmaceuticals. Therefore, the rate of inflation for prescription drugs and our efforts to manage this inflation for our clients continues to be a significant driver of our revenues and cost of revenues in the current environment. In this MD&A, we present revenues and gross profit, as well as adjusted revenues and adjusted gross profit, consistent with our segment reporting metrics, which exclude special items. 65 Results of Operations (1) Total revenues and gross profit were equal to adjusted revenues and adjusted gross profit as there were no special items in the periods presented. (2) Gross profit and adjusted gross profit are calculated as total revenues or adjusted revenues less pharmacy and other service costs. (3) Adjusted expense ratio is calculated as selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of adjusted revenues. (4) Non-specialty network scripts filled through 90-day programs and home delivery scripts are multiplied by three. All other network and specialty scripts are counted as one script. (5) Generic fill rate is defined as the total number of generic scripts divided by the total overall scripts filled. 2023 versus 2022 Adjusted network revenues increased 4%, reflecting inflation on branded drugs and higher claims volume, partially offset by a decrease in claims mix and an increase in the generic fill rate. Adjusted home delivery and specialty revenues increased 7%, reflecting higher specialty claims volume and inflation on branded drugs, partially offset by lower home delivery claims volume. Other pharmacy revenues increased 34%, reflecting higher volume from our CuraScript Specialty Distribution business, which distributes pharmaceuticals and medical supplies directly to health care providers, clinics and hospitals. Adjusted fees and other revenues increased 51%, reflecting client growth in Care Delivery and Management Solutions, including cross-enterprise leverage, primarily driven by our behavioral health and eviCore Healthcare solutions, and client growth from our continued affordability services. 66 Adjusted gross profit increased 10%, and pre-tax adjusted income from operations increased 5%, reflecting continued affordability improvements and growth in Specialty Pharmacy, partially offset by increased strategic investments to support the onboarding of new clients and continued advancement of our digital capabilities and care solutions. The adjusted expense ratio increased 20 bps, reflecting increased strategic investments to support the onboarding of new clients and continued advancement of our digital capabilities and care solutions. Cigna Healthcare Segment Cigna Healthcare includes the U.S. Healthcare and International Health businesses, which provide comprehensive medical and coordinated solutions to clients and customers. During the fourth quarter of 2023, the U.S. Commercial and U.S. Government operating segments were merged to form the U.S. Healthcare operating segment. As described in the introduction to Segment Reporting, performance of the Cigna Healthcare segment is measured using adjusted revenues and pre-tax adjusted income from operations. Key factors affecting results for this segment include: • customer growth; • revenue growth; • percentage of Medicare Advantage customers in plans eligible for quality bonus payments; • medical costs as a percentage of premiums (medical care ratio or "MCR") for our insured businesses; and • selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of adjusted revenues (adjusted expense ratio). Effective January 1, 2023, we adopted amended accounting guidance for long-duration insurance contracts. For the Cigna Healthcare segment, prior period results of operations have been retrospectively adjusted to conform to this new basis of accounting. The impact of this amended guidance is immaterial. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In January 2024, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Plans, Medicare and Other Supplemental Benefits and CareAllies businesses within the U.S. Healthcare operating segment to Health Care Service Corporation for $3.3 billion cash, subject to applicable regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Results of Operations 2023 versus 2022 Adjusted revenues increased 14%, primarily reflecting customer growth and higher premium rates due to anticipated underlying medical cost trend. Pre-tax adjusted income from operations increased 9%, primarily due to a lower medical care ratio and a lower adjusted expense ratio. The improvement to the medical care ratio and the adjusted expense ratio for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, was driven by decreases of 160 bps and 190 bps, respectively, for the three months ended December 31, 2023. The medical care ratio decreased 40 bps, primarily due to a lower U.S. Healthcare medical care ratio, reflecting improved stop loss results, effective pricing execution and affordability initiatives. The adjusted expense ratio decreased 20 bps for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to revenue growth outpacing volume-related expenses as well as higher technology spend. The adjusted expense ratio decreased 190 bps for the three months ended December 31, 2023, primarily due to revenue growth and timing of investments outpacing volume-related expenses. 67 Medical Customers A medical customer is defined as a person meeting any one of the following criteria: • is covered under a medical insurance policy, managed care arrangement or administrative services agreement issued by us; • has access to our provider network for covered services under their medical plan; or • has medical claims that are administered by us. (1) International Health excludes medical customers served by less than 100% owned subsidiaries, as well as certain customers served by our third-party administrator. International Health customers as of December 31, 2023 reflect the transition of certain run-off business to Other Operations beginning January 1, 2023. 2023 versus 2022 Total medical customers increased 10%, primarily driven by growth in fee-based customers as well as in Individual and Family Plans and Medicare Advantage customers. See Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K for definitions of Cigna Healthcare's market segments. Unpaid Claims and Claim Expenses 2023 versus 2022 Our unpaid claims and claim expenses liability increased 22%, driven by customer growth, primarily within our Individual and Family Plans business. Other Operations Other Operations includes corporate owned life insurance ("COLI") and the Company's run-off operations. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these operations. In the prior periods, Other Operations also included the International businesses sold in July 2022 and our interest in a joint venture in Türkiye sold in December 2022. As described in the introduction of Segment Reporting, performance of Other Operations is measured using adjusted revenues and pre-tax adjusted income from operations. Effective January 1, 2023, we adopted amended accounting guidance for long-duration insurance contracts. For the Other Operations segment, prior period results of operations have been retrospectively adjusted to conform to this new basis of accounting. The impact of this amended guidance is immaterial. Prior period results related to long-duration contracts sold in the Chubb transaction and our divested interest in a joint venture in Türkiye were not adjusted (as permitted by ASU 2022-05). See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional disclosure of our long-duration insurance contracts and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the adoption of this amended guidance. 68 Results of Operations 2023 versus 2022 Adjusted revenues declined reflecting the absence of revenues from the business divested in 2022. Pre-tax adjusted income from operations decreased primarily due to the absence of earnings from the businesses divested in the Chubb transaction. Corporate Corporate reflects amounts not allocated to operating segments, including net interest expense (defined as interest on corporate financing less net investment income on investments not supporting segment and other operations), certain litigation matters, expense associated with our frozen pension plans, charitable contributions, operating severance, certain overhead and enterprise-wide project costs and eliminations for products and services sold between segments. 2023 versus 2022 Pre-tax adjusted loss from operations increased 16% primarily due to an increase in the weighted average interest rate on our indebtedness and increased pension costs due to lower expected asset returns and a higher discount rate. While our pension expense has increased year-over-year, we continue to expect the required contributions for 2024 to be immaterial. INVESTMENT ASSETS The following table presents our investment asset portfolio excluding separate account assets. Additional information regarding our investment assets is included in Notes 12, 13, 14 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (1) Investments related to the HCSC transaction that were held for sale as of December 31, 2023. These investments were primarily comprised of debt securities and commercial mortgage loans, and to a lesser extent, other long term investments. Investment Outlook We continue to actively monitor economic conditions including the impact of inflation, higher interest rates and the potential for a recession on the investment portfolio. Although there has been very limited impact to date on our investment portfolio as a result of 2023 economic and geopolitical events, including banking system stress, we continue to monitor ongoing developments and the 69 potential impact of 2023 events on the portfolio. Future realized and unrealized investment results will be driven largely by market conditions and these future conditions are not reasonably predictable. We believe that the vast majority of our investments will continue to perform under their contractual terms. We manage the portfolio for long-term economics and therefore we expect to hold a significant portion of these assets for the long term. The following discussion addresses the strategies and risks associated with our various classes of investment assets. Although future declines in investment fair values remain possible due to interest rate movements and credit deterioration due to both investment-specific uncertainties and global economic uncertainties as discussed below, we do not expect these losses to have a material unfavorable effect on our financial condition or liquidity. Debt Securities Investments in debt securities include publicly traded and privately placed bonds, mortgage and other asset-backed securities and preferred stocks redeemable by the investor. These investments are classified as available for sale and are carried at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additional information regarding valuation methodologies, key inputs and controls is included in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table reflects our portfolio of debt securities by type of issuer: The carrying value of our debt securities portfolio was flat during the year ended December 31, 2023 reflecting net sales activity offset by a valuation increase due to declining market interest rates . Our portfolio remains in a net unrealized depreciation position due to generally increasing interest rates over the last several quarters. More detailed information about debt securities by type of issuer, maturity dates and net unrealized position is included in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2023, $8.3 billion, or 84%, of the debt securities in our investment portfolio were investment grade (Baa and above, or equivalent) and the remaining $1.6 billion were below investment grade. The majority of the bonds that are below investment grade were rated at the higher end of the non-investment grade spectrum. These quality characteristics have not materially changed since the prior year and remain consistent with our investment strategy. Debt securities include private placement assets of $4.0 billion. These investments are generally less marketable than publicly traded bonds; however, yields on these investments tend to be higher than yields on publicly traded bonds with comparable credit risk. We perform a credit analysis of each issuer and require financial and other covenants that allow us to monitor issuers for deteriorating financial strength and pursue remedial actions, if warranted. Investments in debt securities are diversified by issuer, geography and industry. On an aggregate basis, the debt securities portfolio continues to perform according to original expectations, which includes a long-term economic investment strategy. Elevated global inflation, higher interest rates, continuing supply chain disruptions and potential fallout from the stress in the banking system are the primary risks that many of the issuers in our portfolio are facing. To date, most issuers have been successful in managing the cost escalation and product shortages without undue margin pressure. We continue to monitor the economic environment and its effect on our portfolio and consider the impact of various factors in determining the allowance for credit losses on debt securities, which is discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Commercial Mortgage Loans As of December 31, 2023, our $1.5 billion commercial mortgage loan portfolio consisted of approximately 50 fixed-rate loans, diversified by property type, location and borrower. These loans are carried in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at their unpaid principal balance, net of an allowance for expected credit losses. As a result of increasing market interest rates since the majority of these loans were made, the carrying value exceeds the market value of these loans as of December 31, 2023. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Given the quality and diversity of the underlying real estate, positive debt service coverage and significant borrower cash invested in the property generally ranging between 30 and 40%, we remain confident that the vast majority of borrowers will continue to perform as expected under their contract terms. For further discussion of the results and changes in key loan metrics, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 70 Loans are secured by high quality commercial properties, located in strong institutional markets and are generally made at approximately 65% of the property's value at origination of the loan. Property value, debt service coverage, quality, building tenancy and stability of cash flows are all important financial underwriting considerations. We hold no direct residential mortgage loans and do not originate or service securitized mortgage loans. We assess the credit quality of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio annually, generally in the second quarter by reviewing each holding's most recent financial statements, rent rolls, budgets and relevant market reports. The review performed in the second quarter of 2023 confirmed ongoing strong overall credit quality in line with the previous year's results. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our key credit quality indicators for commercial mortgage loans. Office sector fundamentals have been and continue to be weak and values are experiencing stress due to multiple headwinds: expanded work from home flexibility, shorter term leases, elevated tenant improvement allowances and corporate migration to lower cost states. Additionally, the current macroeconomic headwinds are impacting capital markets and reducing investor appetite for capital intensive assets (e.g., offices and regional shopping malls). Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio has no exposure to regional shopping malls and less than 30% exposure to office properties. Although future losses remain possible due to further credit deterioration, we do not expect these losses to have a material unfavorable effect on our financial condition or liquidity. Other Long-term Investments Other long-term investments of $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2023 included investments in securities limited partnerships and real estate limited partnerships, direct investments in real estate joint ventures and other deposit activity that is required to support various insurance and health services businesses. Accounting policies for these investments are discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in other long-term investments of $0.5 billion since December 31, 2022 is primarily driven by net additional funding activity. These limited partnership entities typically invest in mezzanine debt or equity of privately-held companies and equity real estate. Given our subordinate position in the capital structure of these underlying entities, we assume a higher level of risk for higher expected returns. To mitigate risk, these investments are diversified across approximately 200 separate partnerships and 100 general partners who manage one or more of these partnerships. Also, the underlying investments are diversified by industry sector or property type and geographic region. No single partnership investment exceeded 4% of our securities and real estate limited partnership portfolio. Income from our limited partnership investments is generally reported on a one quarter lag due to the timing of when financial information is received from the general partner or manager of the investments. We expect continued volatility in private equity and real estate fund performance going forward as fair market valuations are adjusted to reflect market and portfolio transactions. Less than 4% of our other long-term investments are exposed to real estate in the office sector. We participate in an insurance joint venture in China with a 50% ownership interest. We account for this joint venture under the equity method of accounting and report our share of the net assets of $0.2 billion in Other assets. Our 50% share of the investment portfolio supporting the joint venture's liabilities is approximately $11.7 billion as of December 31, 2023. These investments were comprised of approximately 75% debt securities, including government and corporate debt diversified by issuer, industry and geography; 15% equities, including mutual funds, equity securities and private equity partnerships; and 10% long-term deposits and policy loans. We continuously review the joint venture's investment strategy and its execution. There were no investments with a material unrealized loss as of December 31, 2023. MARKET RISK Financial Instruments Our assets and liabilities include financial instruments subject to the risk of potential losses from adverse changes in market rates and prices. Consistent with disclosure requirements, the following items have been excluded from this consideration of market risk for financial instruments: • changes in the fair values of insurance-related assets and liabilities as disclosed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements because their primary risks are insurance rather than market risk; • changes in the fair values of investments recorded using the equity method of accounting and liabilities for pension and other postretirement and postemployment benefit plans (and related assets); and • changes in the fair values of other significant assets and liabilities, such as goodwill, deferred policy acquisition costs, taxes and various accrued liabilities. Because they are not financial instruments, their primary risks are other than market risk. Excluding the items noted in the paragraph above, our primary market risk exposure from financial instruments is our interest-rate risk exposure to fixed-rate, medium-term instruments. Changes in market interest rates affect the value of instruments that promise a fixed 71 return. Following increased investments in equity securities during 2023, primarily as a result of our investment in VillageMD, our exposure to equity price risk has increased. Our Management of Market Risks We predominantly rely on two techniques to manage our exposure to market risk: • Investment/liability matching. We generally select investment assets with characteristics (such as duration, yield, currency and liquidity) that correspond to the underlying characteristics of our related insurance and contractholder liabilities so that we can match the investments to our obligations. Shorter-term investments generally support shorter-term life and health liabilities. Medium-term, fixed-rate investments support interest-sensitive and health liabilities. Longer-term investments generally support products with longer payout periods such as annuities. • Use of derivatives. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our primary market risks. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about derivative financial instruments. Effect of Market Fluctuations We determine the sensitivity of market risk for our fixed income financial instruments, including debt securities and commercial mortgage loans, by estimating the present value of future cash flows using duration modeling and applying a 100 basis point increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of market risk for equity securities is determined by applying a 10% decrease in market prices. The effect of these hypothetical changes in market rates or prices on the fair value of certain financial instruments, subject to the exclusions noted above (particularly insurance liabilities), would have been as follows: In the event of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates, the fair value of the Company's long-term debt would decrease approximately $1.8 billion at both December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022. Changes in the fair value of our long-term debt do not impact our financial position or operating results since long-term debt is not required to be recorded at fair value. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the Company's debt.