********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could also be affected by additional risks that apply to all companies operating in the U.S. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. These Risk Factors should be carefully reviewed in conjunction with Management ' s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. Business and Operating Risks We are highly dependent on the financial performance of our U.S. and Canadian operations. Our financial and operational performance is highly dependent on our U.S. and Canadian operations, which comprised 87% and 85% of net sales and operating income in 2022, respectively. Within the U.S., we are highly dependent on our California operations, which comprised 28% of U.S. net sales in 2022. Our California market, in general, has a larger percentage of higher volume warehouses as compared to our other domestic markets. Any substantial slowing or sustained decline in these operations could materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Declines in financial performance of our U.S. operations, particularly in California, and our Canadian operations could arise from, among other things: slow growth or declines in comparable warehouse sales (comparable sales); negative trends in operating expenses, including increased labor, healthcare and energy costs; failing to meet targets for warehouse openings; cannibalizing existing locations with new warehouses; shifts in sales mix toward lower gross margin products; changes or uncertainties in economic conditions in our markets, including higher levels of unemployment and depressed home values; and failing to consistently provide high quality and innovative new products. We may be unsuccessful implementing our growth strategy, including expanding our business in existing markets and new markets, and integrating acquisitions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth is dependent, in part, on our ability to acquire property and build or lease new warehouses and depots. We compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations. Local land use and other regulations restricting the construction and operation of our warehouses and depots, as well as local community actions opposed to the location of our warehouses or depots at specific sites and the adoption of local laws restricting our operations and environmental regulations, may impact our ability to find suitable locations and increase the cost of sites and of constructing, leasing and operating warehouses and depots. We also may have difficulty negotiating leases or purchase agreements on acceptable terms. In addition, certain jurisdictions have enacted or proposed laws and regulations that would prevent or restrict the operation or expansion plans of certain large retailers and warehouse clubs, including us. Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors may affect our ability to timely build or lease and operate new warehouses and depots, which could have a material adverse effect on our future growth and profitability. We seek to expand in existing markets to attain a greater overall market share. A new warehouse may draw members away from our existing warehouses and adversely affect their comparable sales performance, member traffic, and profitability. We intend to continue to open warehouses in new markets. Associated risks include difficulties in attracting members due to a lack of familiarity with us, attracting members of other wholesale club operators, our lesser familiarity with local member preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. Entry into new markets may bring us into competition with new competitors or with existing competitors with a large, established market presence. We cannot ensure that new warehouses and new e-commerce websites will be profitable and future profitability could be delayed or otherwise materially adversely affected. 9 We have made and may continue to make investments and acquisitions to improve the speed, accuracy and efficiency of our supply chains and delivery channels. The effectiveness of these investments can be less predictable than opening new locations and might not provide the anticipated benefits or desired rates of return. Our failure to maintain membership growth, loyalty and brand recognition could adversely affect our results of operations. Membership loyalty and growth are essential to our business. The extent to which we achieve growth in our membership base, increase the penetration of Executive membership, and sustain high renewal rates materially influences our profitability. Damage to our brands or reputation may negatively impact comparable sales, diminish member trust, and reduce renewal rates and, accordingly, net sales and membership fee revenue, negatively impacting our results of operations. We sell many products under our Kirkland Signature brand. Maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of these products is essential to developing and maintaining member loyalty. These products also generally carry higher margins than national brand products and represent a growing portion of our overall sales. If the Kirkland Signature brand experiences a loss of member acceptance or confidence, our sales and gross margin results could be adversely affected. Disruptions in merchandise distribution or processing, packaging, manufacturing, and other facilities could adversely affect sales and member satisfaction. We depend on the orderly operation of the merchandise receiving and distribution process, primarily through our depots. We also rely upon processing, packaging, manufacturing and other facilities to support our business, which includes the production of certain private-label items. Although we believe that our operations are efficient, disruptions due to fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, pandemics or other extreme weather conditions or catastrophic events, labor issues or other shipping problems may result in delays in the production and delivery of merchandise to our warehouses, which could adversely affect sales and the satisfaction of our members. Our e-commerce operations depend heavily on third-party and in-house logistics providers and is negatively affected when these providers are unable to provide services in a timely fashion. We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. It is difficult to consistently and successfully predict the products and services that our members will desire. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to identify and respond to trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to identify timely or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including those relating to environmental, social and governance practices) and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our members, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. If we are not successful at predicting our sales trends and adjusting our purchases accordingly, we may have excess inventory, which could result in additional markdowns, or we may experience out-of-stock positions and delivery delays, which could result in higher costs, both of which would reduce our operating performance. This could have an adverse effect on net sales, gross margin and operating income. Availability and performance of our information technology (IT) systems are vital to our business. Failure to successfully execute IT projects and have IT systems available to our business would adversely impact our operations. IT systems play a crucial role in conducting our business. These systems are utilized to process a very high volume of transactions, conduct payment transactions, track and value our inventory and produce reports critical for making business decisions. Failure or disruption of these systems could have an adverse impact on our ability to buy products and services from our suppliers, produce goods in our manufacturing plants, move the products in an efficient manner to our warehouses and sell products to our members. We are undertaking large technology and IT transformation projects. The failure of these 10 projects could adversely impact our business plans and potentially impair our day to day business operations. Given the high volume of transactions we process, it is important that we build strong digital resiliency to prevent disruption from events such as power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, viruses, internal or external security breaches, errors by employees, and catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes. Any debilitating failure of our critical IT systems, data centers and backup systems would require significant investments in resources to restore IT services and may cause serious impairment in our business operations including loss of business services, increased cost of moving merchandise and failure to provide service to our members. We are currently making substantial investments in maintaining and enhancing our digital resiliency and failure or delay in these projects could be costly and harmful to our business. Failure to deliver IT transformation efforts efficiently and effectively could result in the loss of our competitive position and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to maintain the privacy and security of personal and business information amidst multiplying threat landscapes and in compliance with privacy and data protection regulations globally. Failure to do so could damage our business, including our reputation with members, suppliers and employees, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and become subject to litigation and regulatory action. Increased security threats and more sophisticated cyber misconduct pose a risk to our systems, networks, products and services. We rely upon IT systems and networks, some of which are managed by third parties, in connection with virtually all of our business activities. Additionally, we collect, store and process sensitive information relating to our business, members, suppliers and employees. Operating these IT systems and networks, and processing and maintaining this data, in a secure manner, is critical to our business operations and strategy. Increased remote work has also increased the possible attack surfaces. Threats designed to gain unauthorized access to systems, networks and data, both ours and third parties with whom we work, are increasing in frequency and sophistication. Cybersecurity attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crimes and advanced persistent threats. Phishing attacks have emerged as particularly prominent, including as vectors for ransomware attacks, which have increased in breadth and frequency. While we train our employees as part of our security efforts, that training cannot be completely effective. These threats pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our data. It is possible that our IT systems and networks, or those managed by third parties such as cloud providers or suppliers that otherwise host confidential information, could have vulnerabilities, which could go unnoticed for a period of time. While our cybersecurity and compliance efforts seek to mitigate such risks, there can be no guarantee that the actions and controls we and our third-party service providers have implemented and are implementing, will be sufficient to protect our systems, information or other property. The potential impacts of a material cybersecurity attack include reputational damage, litigation, government enforcement actions, penalties, disruption to systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, corruption of data, diminution in the value of our investment in IT systems and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs. This could adversely affect our competitiveness, results of operations and financial condition and, critically in light of our business model, loss of member confidence. Further, the insurance coverage we maintain and indemnification arrangements with third-parties may be inadequate to cover claims, costs, and liabilities relating to cybersecurity incidents. In addition, data we collect, store and process is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, such as the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation, California Consumer Privacy Act, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and other privacy and cybersecurity laws across the various states and around the globe, which may carry significant potential penalties for noncompliance. 11 We are subject to payment-related risks. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including select credit and debit cards, cash and checks, co-brand cardholder rebates, Executive member 2% reward certificates, and our shop card. As we offer new payment options to our members, we may be subject to additional rules, regulations, compliance requirements, and higher fraud losses. For certain payment methods, we pay interchange and other related acceptance fees, along with additional transaction processing fees. We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services for credit and debit cards and our shop card. It could disrupt our business if these parties become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to fee increases by these service providers. We must comply with evolving payment card association and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers. For example, we are subject to Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which contain compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. If our internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card re-issuance costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept card payments from our members, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We might sell products that cause illness or injury to our members, harm to our reputation, and expose us to litigation. If our merchandise, including food and prepared food products for human consumption, drugs, children ' s products, pet products and durable goods, do not meet or are perceived not to meet applicable safety or labeling standards or our members ' expectations, we could experience lost sales, increased costs, litigation or reputational harm. The sale of these items involves the risk of illness or injury to our members. Such illnesses or injuries could result from tampering by unauthorized third parties, product contamination or spoilage, including the presence of foreign objects, substances, chemicals, other agents, or residues introduced during the growing, manufacturing, storage, handling and transportation phases, or faulty design. Our suppliers are generally contractually required to comply with product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with safety and other standards. While we are subject to governmental inspection and regulations and work to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that consumption or use of our products will not cause illness or injury or that we will not be subject to claims, lawsuits, or government investigations relating to such matters, resulting in costly product recalls and other liabilities that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, negative publicity could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential members and our corporate and brand image, and these effects could be long-term. If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omnichannel experience for our members, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Omnichannel retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with changing member expectations and new developments by our competitors. Our members are increasingly using mobile phones, tablets, computers, and other devices to shop and to interact with us through social media. We are making investments in our websites and mobile applications. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant member-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 Inability to attract, train and retain highly qualified employees could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our employees, including members of our senior management and other key operations, IT, merchandising and administrative personnel. Failure to identify and implement a succession plan for senior management could negatively impact our business. We must attract, train and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees, while controlling related labor costs and maintaining our core values. Our ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to numerous internal and external factors, including the continuing impacts of the pandemic, regulatory changes, prevailing wage rates, union relations and healthcare and other insurance costs. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these employees and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified employees in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by our insurance. Claims for employee health care benefits, workers’ compensation, general liability, property damage, directors’ and officers’ liability, vehicle liability, inventory loss, and other exposures are funded predominantly through self-insurance. Insurance coverage is maintained for certain risks to limit exposures arising from very large losses. The types and amounts of insurance may vary from time to time based on our decisions with respect to risk retention and regulatory requirements. Significant claims or events, regulatory changes, a substantial rise in costs of health care or costs to maintain our insurance or the failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we maintain specific coverages for catastrophic property losses, we still bear a significant portion of the risk of losses incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption. Such losses could materially impact our cash flows and results of operations. Market and Other External Risks We face strong competition from other retailers and warehouse club operators, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for members, employees, sites, products and services and in other important respects with a wide range of local, regional and national wholesalers and retailers, both in the United States and in foreign countries, including other warehouse-club operators, supermarkets, supercenters, internet retailers, gasoline stations, hard discounters, department and specialty stores and operators selling a single category or narrow range of merchandise. Such retailers and warehouse club operators compete in a variety of ways, including pricing, selection and availability, services, location, convenience, store hours, and the attractiveness and ease of use of websites and mobile applications. The evolution of retailing in online and mobile channels has improved the ability of customers to comparison shop, which has enhanced competition. Some competitors have greater financial resources and technology capabilities, better access to merchandise, and greater market penetration than we do. Our inability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, changes in the retail markets or customer expectations could result in lost market share and negatively affect our financial results. General economic factors, domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Higher energy and gasoline costs, inflation, levels of unemployment, healthcare costs, consumer debt levels, foreign-currency exchange rates, unsettled financial markets, weaknesses in housing and real estate markets, reduced consumer confidence, changes and uncertainties related to government fiscal 13 and tax policies including changes in tax rates, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions, sovereign debt crises, pandemics and other health crises, and other economic factors could adversely affect demand for our products and services, require a change in product mix, or impact the cost of or ability to purchase inventory. Additionally, actions in various countries, particularly China and the United States, have affected the costs of some of our merchandise. The degree of our exposure is dependent on (among other things) the type of goods, rates imposed, and timing of the tariffs. The impact to our net sales and gross margin is influenced in part by our merchandising and pricing strategies in response to potential cost increases. Higher tariffs could adversely impact our results. Prices of certain commodities, including gasoline and consumable goods used in manufacturing and our warehouse retail operations, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, inflationary pressures, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, taxes and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices and our ability and desire to pass them through to our members may affect our sales and profit margins. These factors could also increase our merchandise costs and selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and financial results. General economic conditions can also be affected by events like the outbreak of hostilities, including but not limited to the Ukraine conflict, or acts of terrorism. Inflationary factors such as increases in merchandise costs may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If inflation on merchandise increases beyond our ability to control we may not be able to adjust prices to sufficiently offset the effect of the various cost increases without negatively impacting consumer demand. Certain merchandise categories were impacted by inflation higher than what we have experienced in recent years due to, among other things, the continuing impacts of the pandemic and uncertain economic environment. Suppliers may be unable to timely supply us with quality merchandise at competitive prices or may fail to adhere to our high standards, resulting in adverse effects on our business, merchandise inventories, sales, and profit margins. We depend heavily on our ability to purchase quality merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. As the quantities we require continue to grow, we have no assurances of continued supply, appropriate pricing or access to new products, and any supplier has the ability to change the terms upon which they sell to us or discontinue selling to us. Member demands may lead to out-of-stock positions causing a loss of sales and profits. We buy from numerous domestic and foreign manufacturers and importers. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or the loss of key suppliers could negatively affect us. We may not be able to develop relationships with new suppliers, and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive. Because of our efforts to adhere to high quality standards for which available supply may be limited, particularly for certain food items, the large volumes we demand may not be consistently available. Our suppliers (and those they depend upon for materials and services) are subject to risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activities, financial liquidity, natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, public health emergencies, supply constraints and general economic and political conditions that could limit their ability to timely provide us with acceptable merchandise. One or more of our suppliers might not adhere to our quality control, packaging, legal, regulatory, labor, environmental or animal welfare standards. These deficiencies may delay or preclude delivery of merchandise to us and might not be identified before we sell such merchandise to our members. This failure could lead to recalls and litigation and otherwise damage our reputation and our brands, increase costs, and otherwise adversely impact our business. 14 Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. During 2022, our international operations, including Canada, generated 27% and 32% of our net sales and operating income, respectively. Our international operations have accounted for an increasing portion of our warehouses, and we plan to continue international growth. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we translate the financial statements of our international operations from local currencies into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. Future fluctuations in exchange rates that are unfavorable to us may adversely affect the financial performance of our Canadian and Other International operations and have a corresponding adverse period-over-period effect on our results of operations. As we continue to expand internationally, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may increase. A portion of the products we purchase is paid for in a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods are sold. Currency fluctuations may increase our merchandise costs and may not be passed on to members. Consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. Natural disasters, extreme weather conditions, public health emergencies or other catastrophic events could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, including those impacted by climate change, such as hurricanes, typhoons, floods, earthquakes, wildfires, droughts; acts of terrorism or violence, including active shooter situations; energy shortages; public health issues, including pandemics and quarantines, particularly in California or Washington state, where our centralized operating systems and administrative personnel are located, could negatively affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to our properties, limitations on store operating hours, less frequent visits by members to physical locations, the temporary closure of warehouses, depots, manufacturing or home office facilities, the temporary lack of an adequate work force, disruptions to our IT systems, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local or overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods to or from overseas, delays in the delivery of goods to our warehouses or depots, and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our warehouses. Public health issues, whether occurring in the U.S. or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of suppliers or members, or have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to procure products. We may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in many respects. The continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic are highly unpredictable and volatile and are affecting certain business operations, demand for our products and services, in-stock positions, costs of doing business, availability of labor, access to inventory, supply chain operations, our ability to predict future performance, exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among other things. 15 Other factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: • The severity and duration of the pandemic, including future mutations or related variants of the virus in areas in which we operate; • Evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures; • Changes in labor markets affecting us and our suppliers; • Unknown consequences on our business performance and initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time and other resources to the pandemic response; • The pace of recovery when the pandemic subsides; • The long-term impact of the pandemic on our business, including consumer behaviors; and • Disruption and volatility within the financial and credit markets. To the extent that COVID-19 continues to adversely affect the U.S. and global economy, our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, it may also heighten other risks described in this section, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, brand reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation, operational risk as a result of remote work arrangements and regulatory requirements. Factors associated with climate change could adversely affect our business. We use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline, and electricity in our distribution and warehouse operations. Government regulations limiting carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions may increase compliance and merchandise costs, and other regulation affecting energy inputs could materially affect our profitability. As the economy transitions to lower carbon intensity we cannot guarantee that we will make adequate investments or successfully implement strategies that will effectively achieve our climate-related goals, which could lead to negative perceptions among members and other stakeholders and result in reputational harm. Climate change, extreme weather conditions, wildfires, droughts and rising sea levels could affect our ability to procure commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience. We also sell a substantial amount of gasoline, the demand for which could be impacted by concerns about climate change and increased regulations. More stringent fuel economy standards and public policies aimed at increasing the adoption of zero-emission and alternative fuel vehicles and other regulations related to climate change will affect our future operations and may adversely impact our profitability, and require significant capital expenditures. Failure to meet financial market expectations could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. We believe that the price of our stock currently reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our warehouse and e-commerce comparable sales growth rates, membership renewal rates, new member sign-ups, gross margin, earnings, earnings per share, new warehouse openings, or dividend or stock repurchase policies could cause the price of our stock to decline. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic factors specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. At the end of 2022, we operated 260 warehouses outside of the U.S., and we plan to continue expanding our international operations. Future operating results internationally could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, many similar to those we face in the U.S., certain of which are beyond our control. These factors include political and economic conditions, regulatory constraints, currency regulations, 16 policy changes such as the withdrawal of the U.K. from the European Union, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. Other factors that may impact international operations include foreign trade (including tariffs and trade sanctions), monetary and fiscal policies and the laws and regulations of the U.S. and foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities in locations which have been historically less stable than the U.S. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences, and difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial condition and results of operations. Accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations we apply to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, including self-insurance liabilities, are highly complex and involve subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes in rules or interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance and have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We are exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management assessments of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately and to prepare financial statements within required time periods could be adversely affected, which could subject us to litigation or investigations requiring management resources and payment of legal and other expenses, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements and adversely impact our stock price. Changes in tax rates, new U.S. or foreign tax legislation, and exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection and remittance obligations in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, at any point in time, we may be under examination for value added, sales-based, payroll, product, import or other non-income taxes. We may recognize additional tax expense, be subject to additional tax liabilities, or incur losses and penalties, due to changes in laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, assessments by authorities and interpretations related to tax, including tax rules in various jurisdictions. We compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the countries in which we operate. As tax rates vary among countries, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. Additionally, changes in the enacted tax rates or adverse outcomes in tax audits, including transfer pricing disputes, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant changes in or failure to comply with regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and other environmental matters could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide and increasingly broad array of federal, state, regional, local and international laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials, hazardous and non-hazardous wastes and other environmental matters. Failure to comply with these laws could result in harm to our members, employees or others, significant costs to satisfy environmental compliance, remediation or compensatory requirements, or the imposition of severe penalties or restrictions on operations by governmental agencies or courts that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Operations at our facilities require the treatment and disposal of wastewater, stormwater and agricultural and food processing wastes, the use and maintenance of refrigeration systems, including ammonia-based chillers, noise, odor and dust management, the operation of mechanized processing equipment, and other operations that potentially could affect the environment and public health and safety. Failure to comply with current and future environmental, health and safety standards could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, illness or injury of our employees, and claims or lawsuits related to such illnesses or injuries, and temporary closures or limits on the operations of facilities. We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits and some of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires compliance with many laws and regulations. Failure to achieve compliance could subject us to lawsuits and other proceedings, and lead to damage awards, fines, penalties, and remediation costs. We are or may become involved in a number of legal proceedings and audits, including grand jury investigations, government and agency investigations, and consumer, employment, tort, unclaimed property laws, and other litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by governmental authorities. The outcome of some of these proceedings, audits, unclaimed property laws, and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management ' s attention and resources. 18

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview We are a leading global supplier of automation equipment for test and industrial applications. We design, develop, manufacture and sell automatic test systems used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage and complex electronics systems in many industries including consumer electronics, wireless, automotive, industrial, computing, communications, and aerospace and defense industries. Our industrial automation products include collaborative robotic arms, autonomous mobile robots (“AMRs”) and advanced robotic control software used by global manufacturing, logistics and light industrial customers to improve quality, increase manufacturing and material handling efficiency and decrease manufacturing and logistics costs. Our automatic test equipment and industrial automation products and services include: 27 The market for our test products is concentrated with a limited number of significant customers accounting for a substantial portion of the purchases of test equipment. A few customers drive significant demand for our test products both through direct sales and sales to the customers’ supply partners. We expect that sales of our test products will continue to be concentrated with a limited number of significant customers for the foreseeable future. In 2021, revenue in our test businesses exceeded our plan as a result of increased Semiconductor Test demand and broad-based growth in our Wireless Test and Storage Test businesses. In 2022, we expect lower demand in our Semiconductor Test business due to a slower technology transition in one of our largest end-markets. We expect this demand to accelerate in 2023 as a result of the expected ramp in 3 nanometer volume production. Our Industrial Automation segment consists of Universal Robots A/S (“UR”), a leading supplier of collaborative robotic arms, Mobile Industrial Robots A/S (“MiR”), a leading maker of AMRs for industrial automation and AutoGuide, LLC (“AutoGuide”), a maker of high payload AMRs. The market for our Industrial Automation segment products is dependent on the adoption of new automation technologies by large manufacturers as well as small and medium enterprises (SMEs) throughout the world. In 2021, our Industrial Automation segment returned to growth following the global industrial downturn as well as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. We expect our UR and MiR businesses to continue to grow in 2022, while our AutoGuide business will focus on continuing to invest to scale and integrate high payload AMR solutions. Our corporate strategy continues to focus on profitably gaining market share in our test businesses through the introduction of differentiated products that target expanding segments and accelerating growth through continued investment in our Industrial Automation businesses. We plan to execute on our strategy while balancing capital allocations between returning capital to our shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends and using capital for opportunistic acquisitions. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on our Business The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic resulted in government authorities implementing numerous measures in an effort to contain the spread of the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, limitations on gatherings or social distancing requirements, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, vaccination and testing mandates, and business limitations and shutdowns. These measures have impacted our day-to-day operations and disrupted our business, workforce and operations, as well as the operations of our customers, contract manufacturers and suppliers. We are continuing to monitor the rapidly evolving situation regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and the availability and impact of vaccinations globally. However, we are unable to accurately predict the full impact of COVID-19, which will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with accuracy, including, but not limited to, any new surges or new strains or variants of the virus in areas where we do business, the availability and use of vaccinations, any further government actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Health and Safety In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken proactive, aggressive action to protect the health and safety of our employees, customers, contract manufacturers and suppliers and we have complied with all government orders around the globe. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices, 28 including implementing social distancing protocols, suspending employee travel, requiring most employees to work remotely, cancelling physical participation in meetings, and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. Around the world, the majority of our employees are working from home. However, some of our engineering, operations, supply line and customer support teams must be on-site at our or our customers’ facilities. We are providing those on-site employees with the necessary protective resources and procedures to minimize their exposure risk. We may take further actions as may be required or recommended by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, contract manufacturers and suppliers. Operations We believe the COVID-19 pandemic, and the numerous measures implemented by authorities in response, has adversely impacted our results of operations, including by increasing costs and, in 2020, decreasing demand in our Industrial Automation businesses, but we cannot accurately estimate the amount of the impact to our 2021 and 2020 financial results or to our future financial results. In addition, the pandemic has disrupted our contract manufacturers and suppliers, and has resulted in some instances in short-term cost increases to meet customer demand. While the duration and severity of the pandemic may further impact our workforce and operations, as well as those of our customers, contract manufacturers and suppliers, we expect that our manufacturing facilities will remain operational, at sufficient capacity to support production demand. We are monitoring our operations closely in an effort to avoid any potential productivity loss caused by responses to the COVID-19 pandemic. Supply We have experienced interruptions to our supply chain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our suppliers have faced and may continue to face difficulties maintaining operations in light of COVID-19 disruptions and government-ordered restrictions. Our supply chain team, and our suppliers, continue to manage numerous supply, production, and logistics obstacles caused by the pandemic. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. The COVID-19 pandemic may continue to disrupt our ability to obtain components required to manufacture our products, adversely affecting our operations and in some instances resulting in higher costs and delays, both for obtaining components and shipping finished goods to customers. Demand The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly increased economic uncertainty in our markets. Demand for our Test products was strong throughout 2020 and 2021. Our Industrial Automation business, however, experienced a significant decline in demand through the first half of 2020 due to COVID-19 related shutdowns affecting global manufacturing but demand recovered in the second half of 2020 from the low point in the second quarter and continued to recover in 2021. The COVID-19 pandemic could cause further global economic disruption that could cause demand for our products to decline, which would adversely affect our business. Liquidity Although there is continued uncertainty related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future results, we believe our business model and our current cash reserves leave us well-positioned to manage our business through this crisis. We have a strong balance sheet as well as an operating model that we believe is capable of flexing up and down with extreme demand swings while still remaining profitable. Based on our analysis, we believe our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents and our currently anticipated operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs and other capital and liquidity requirements for the next twelve months. However, due to the uncertainty related to the future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to bolster our liquidity position, on May 1, 2020 we entered into a credit agreement providing for a three-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of $400 million. On December 10, 2021, we amended the credit agreement to extend its maturity to December 10, 2026 as further described in Note J: “Debt.” As of February 23, 2022, we have not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. 29 We are continuing to monitor the evolving situation regarding the COVID-19 pandemic, the availability of vaccinations where we do business and guidance from government authorities around the world. In these circumstances, there may be developments outside our control requiring us to adjust our operating plan. As a result, given the uncertain nature of this situation, we are not able to accurately predict the full extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or cash flows in the future. In addition, see Part II—Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” included herein for updates to our risk factors regarding risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the policies and estimates discussed below as critical to understanding our business and our results of operations and financial condition. The impact and any associated risks related to these estimates on our business operations is discussed throughout Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a full description of our accounting policies related to the below items refer to Note B. Accounting Policies, included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been uncertainty and disruption in the global economy and our markets. We are not aware of any specific event or circumstance that would require an update to our estimates or judgments or a revision of the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of the date of issuance of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical accounting estimates are complex and may require significant judgment by management. Changes to the underlying assumptions may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. These estimates may change, as new events occur, and additional information is obtained. Actual results could differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition In accordance with ASC 606, “ Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (“ASC 606”) , we recognize revenues, when or as control is transferred to a customer. Our determination of revenue requires judgment in the determination of performance obligations and allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations. We often sell bundled orders that include both product and services or multiple different products within the same order. We evaluate each of the deliverables to determine if it meets the definition of a performance obligation, which requires that it is capable of being distinct and distinct within the context of the contract. This determination is based on an assessment of contractual rights of the contract and the ability of the performance obligation to perform on its own or with readily available resources. In bundled transactions we estimate the standalone selling price of each identified performance obligation and use that estimate to allocate the transaction price among said performance obligations. The estimated standalone selling price is determined using all information reasonably available to us, including standalone transactions, market information and other observable inputs. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost using a standard costing system which approximates cost based on a first-in, first-out basis or net realizable value. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate all inventories for net realizable value. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed within the forecasted demand window, is written down to estimated net realizable value. Forecasted demand information is obtained from the sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future consolidated revenues. The demand forecast is based on assumptions around the product life and customer and market forecasts. 30 Retirement and Postretirement Plans We recognize net actuarial gains and losses and the change in the fair value of the plan assets in our operating results in the year in which they occur or upon any interim remeasurement of the plans. Discount rate and expected return on assets are two assumptions which are important elements of pension plan expense and asset/liability measurement. We evaluate our discount rate and expected rate of return on assets assumptions annually on a plan and country specific basis. We evaluate other assumptions related to demographic factors, such as retirement age, mortality and turnover periodically, and update them to reflect our experience and expectations for the future. In developing the expected return on U.S. Plan assets assumption, we evaluated input from our investment manager and pension consultants, including their forecast of asset class return expectations. We believe that 2.4% was an appropriate rate of return on assets to use for 2021. The December 31, 2021 asset allocation for our U.S. Plan was 94% invested in fixed income securities, 5% invested in equity securities, and 1% invested in other securities. Our investment manager regularly reviews the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances the portfolio to ensure alignment with our target allocations. The discount rate that we utilized for determining future pension obligations for the U.S. Plan is based on the FTSE Pension Index adjusted for the U.S. Plan’s expected cash flows and was 2.65% at December 31, 2021, up from 2.3% at December 31, 2020. We estimate that in 2022 we will recognize approximately $1.8 million of pension expense for the U.S. Plan. The U.S. Plan pension expense estimate for 2022 is based on a 2.65% discount rate and a 2.0% return on assets. Future pension expense or income will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the employee population participating in our pension plans. Goodwill, Intangible and Long-Lived Assets We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter, as of December 31, on a reporting unit basis, or more frequently, when events and circumstances occur indicating that the recorded goodwill may be impaired. We review intangible and long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate. Goodwill impairment will be the amount by which a reporting unit’s carrying value exceeds its fair value, not to exceed the carrying amount of goodwill. Impairment of intangible and long-lived assets would result in the asset being written down to its estimated fair value. The calculated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible or long-lived asset is dependent upon discounted cash flow (“DCF”) models, discount rates, and market multiples. DCF models rely on our forecasted mid-term plans which are subjective based on customer or market conditions and can change materially. We utilize third party specialists when determining discount rates and selected market multiples. A change in any of these key assumptions could result in a reporting unit, intangible asset, or long-lived asset being impaired in a future period. Convertible Debt Our convertible debt is subject to conversion, under certain circumstances, upon notification from our Note Holders. At the time of conversion, we recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the calculated fair value of the debt immediately prior to its conversion and the carrying amount of the debt component, including any unamortized debt discount or issuance costs. The key estimate in determining the calculated fair value is the borrowing rate which requires judgment using market data for non-convertible debt instruments with similar tenor to the remaining life of our debt. Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the 31 differences are expected to reverse. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Evaluating the positive and negative evidence regarding the realization of the net deferred tax assets in accordance with ASC 740, “ Accounting for Income Taxes ” is a key judgment in the valuation of income taxes. This assessment included the evaluation of scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, estimates of projected future taxable income and tax-planning strategies. Although realization is not assured, based on our assessment, we concluded that it is more likely than not that such assets, net of the existing valuation allowance, will be realized. Results of Operations Information pertaining to fiscal year 2019 results of operations, including a year-to-year comparison against fiscal year 2020, was included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 under Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Results of Operations,” which was filed with the SEC on February 22, 2021. This information is incorporated by reference herein. The following table sets forth the percentage of total net revenues included in our consolidated statements of operations: 32 Revenues Revenues for our reportable segments were as follows: The increase in Semiconductor Test revenues of $382.7 million, or 16.9%, was primarily due to greater tester sales driven by testing high performance compute processors and industrial and automotive devices, partially offset by lower tester sales for mobile application processors. The rise in System Test revenues of $58.0 million, or 14.2%, was driven primarily by elevated sales in Storage Test for system level test demand, and greater sales in Production Board Test. The increase in Industrial Automation revenues of $96.2 million, or 34.4%, was driven by demand for collaborative robotic arms and collaborative autonomous mobile robots. The rise in Wireless Test revenues of $43.9 million, or 25.4%, was primarily due to an increase in WiFi tester sales and higher demand in ultra-wide band wireless test. Our reportable segments accounted for the following percentages of consolidated revenues: Revenues by country as a percentage of total revenues were as follows (1): 33 The breakout of product and service revenues was as follows: Our product revenues increased $505.7 million, or 18.8%, primarily due to greater tester sales in Semiconductor Test driven by testing high performance compute processors and industrial and automotive devices, partially offset by lower tester sales for mobile application processors, the rise in System Test revenues primarily due to elevated sales in Storage Test for system level test demand, and greater sales in Production Board Test, increase in Industrial Automation revenues driven by demand for collaborative robotic arms and collaborative autonomous mobile robots, the rise in Wireless Test revenues due to an increase in WiFi tester sales and higher demand in ultra-wide band wireless test. In 2021 and 2020, revenues from Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Ltd., a customer of our Semiconductor Test segment, accounted for 12% and 15%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues. In 2021 and 2020, our five largest direct customers in aggregate accounted for 33% and 36% of our consolidated revenues, respectively. We estimate consolidated revenues driven by one OEM customer, combining direct sales to that customer with sales to the customer’s OSATs, accounted for approximately 19% and 25% of our consolidated revenues in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Gross Profit Gross profit as a percent of total revenues increased by 2.4 points, primarily due to product mix of higher margin products in Semiconductor Test, increase in service margins and operating leverage due to higher revenues. The breakout of product and service gross profit was as follows: 34 We assess the carrying value of our inventory on a quarterly basis by estimating future demand and comparing that demand against on-hand and on-order inventory positions. Forecasted revenues information is obtained from the sales and marketing groups and incorporates factors such as backlog and future consolidated revenues. This quarterly process identifies obsolete and excess inventory. Obsolete inventory, which represents items for which there is no demand, is fully reserved. Excess inventory, which represents inventory items that are not expected to be consumed within the forecasted demand window, is written down to estimated net realizable value. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded an inventory provision of $15.5 million included in cost of revenues, primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels for certain products. Of the $15.5 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $6.7 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $6.4 million was related to Industrial Automation, $1.8 million was related to Wireless Test, and $0.6 million was related to System Test. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded an inventory provision of $17.5 million included in cost of revenues, primarily due to downward revisions to previously forecasted demand levels for certain products. Of the $17.5 million of total excess and obsolete provisions, $11.0 million was related to Semiconductor Test, $4.8 million was related to Wireless Test, $0.9 million was related to System Test, and $0.8 million was related to Industrial Automation. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we scrapped $10.9 million and $7.7 million of inventory, respectively, and sold $2.5 million and $2.3 million of previously written-down or written-off inventory, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, we had inventory related reserves for amounts which had been written-down or written-off totaling $114.1 million. We have no pre-determined timeline to scrap the remaining inventory. Selling and Administrative Selling and administrative expenses were as follows: The increase of $82.8 million in selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to higher variable compensation and greater selling and administrative spending across all segments. Engineering and Development Engineering and development expenses were as follows: The increase of $52.6 million in engineering and development expenses was primarily due to higher spending in Semiconductor Test, System Test and Industrial Automation segments and higher variable compensation. 35 Restructuring and Other During the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded $1.5 million of severance charges primarily in Industrial Automation, $0.5 million of acquisition related compensation and expenses and $14.5 million for other expenses, offset by a $7.2 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the AutoGuide contingent consideration liability. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded a $19.7 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the AutoGuide contingent consideration liability, and a $3.5 million gain for the decrease in the fair value of the MiR contingent consideration liability, partially offset by a $4.0 million contract termination settlement charge, $2.5 million of acquisition related compensation and expenses, $2.3 million of severance charges primarily in Industrial Automation, and $1.2 million of other expenses. Interest and Other Interest income decreased by $3.4 million primarily due to lower interest rates and a lower marketable securities balance in 2021 compared to 2020. Interest expense decreased by $6.4 million primarily due to lower convertible debt interest expense due to early conversions in 2021. Other (income) expense, net increased by $15.4 million primarily due to $28.8 million of losses on convertible debt conversions in 2021, partially offset by the change in pension actuarial gains/losses, from a $10.3 million loss in 2020 to a $2.2 million gain in 2021. Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes The increase in income before income taxes in Semiconductor Test was primarily due to greater tester sales driven by testing high performance compute processors and industrial and automotive devices, partially offset by lower tester sales for mobile application processors. The decrease in loss before income taxes in Industrial Automation was primarily due to demand for collaborative robotic arms and collaborative autonomous mobile robots and lower intangible assets amortization expense. The increase in income before income taxes in System Test was driven primarily by elevated sales in Storage Test for system level test demand, and greater sales in 36 Production Board Test. The increase in income before income taxes in Wireless Test was primarily due to an increase in WiFi tester sales and higher demand in ultra-wide band wireless test. The loss before income taxes in Corporate and Other was primarily due to losses on convertible debt conversions in 2021. Income Taxes Income tax expense for 2021and 2020, totaled $146.4 million and $116.9 million, respectively. The effective tax rate for 2021 and 2020 was 12.6% and 13.0%, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 2020 to 2021 is primarily attributable to a decrease in the expense from U.S. global low-taxed income partially offset by a decrease in the benefit from foreign tax credits and a shift in the geographic distribution of income, which increased the income subject to taxation in higher tax rate jurisdictions relative to lower tax rate jurisdictions. We qualify for a tax holiday in Singapore by fulfilling the requirements of an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board under which certain headcount and spending requirements must be met. The tax savings attributable to the Singapore tax holiday for the years ended December 31, 2021and 2020 were $33.3 million or $0.18 per diluted share and $29.9 million or $0.16 per diluted share, respectively. In November 2020, we entered into an agreement with the Singapore Economic Development Board which extended our Singapore tax holiday under substantially similar terms to the agreement which expired on December 31, 2020. The new tax holiday is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2025. Capital Resources and Material Cash Requirements Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance decreased by $54 million in 2021 to $1,500 million. Cash decreased due to stock repurchases in the amount of $600 million, payments of convertible debt principal in the amount of $343 million, quarterly cash dividend payments in the amount of $66 million offset by cash generated by our global operations. Operating activities during 2021 provided cash of $1,098.4 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $98.8 million. This was due to a $227.1 million increase in operating assets and a $128.4 million increase in operating liabilities. The increase in operating assets was due to a $175.8 million increase in prepayments and other assets due to prepayments to our contract manufacturers, a $57.8 million increase in accounts receivable due to greater sales, partially offset by a $6.5 million decrease in inventories. The increase in operating liabilities was due to a $63.5 million increase in other accrued liabilities, a $35.1 million increase in accrued employee compensation, a $22.9 million increase in accounts payable, and a $9.9 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, partially offset by a $5.6 million decrease in income taxes, and $5.4 million of retirement plan contributions. Investing activities during 2021 provided cash of $120.4 million, due to $660.1 million and $266.5 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, respectively, partially offset by $661.8 million used for purchases of marketable securities, $132.5 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, and $12.0 million used for an investment in MachineMetrics, Inc. (“MachineMetrics”). Financing activities during 2021 used cash of $1,008.6 million, due to $600.0 million used for the repurchase of 4.8 million shares of common stock at an average price of $125.74 per share, $343.0 million used for the payments of convertible debt principal, $66.0 million used for dividend payments, and $32.3 million used for payments related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, partially offset by $32.7 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans. 37 Operating activities during 2020 provided cash of $868.9 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities used cash of $69.4 million. This was due to a $202.3 million increase in operating assets and a $132.9 million increase in operating liabilities. The increase in operating assets was due to a $129.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased sales, an $8.4 million increase in inventories, and a $64.4 million increase in prepayments and other assets. The increase in operating liabilities was due to a $54.7 million increase in accrued employee compensation, a $40.0 million increase in deferred revenue and customer advance payments, a $25.2 million increase in income taxes, a $12.8 million increase in other accrued liabilities, and a $5.7 million increase in accounts payable, partially offset by $5.4 million of retirement plan contributions. Investing activities during 2020 used cash of $569.8 million, due to $900.2 million used for purchases of marketable securities, and $185.0 million used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, partially offset by $480.0 million and $35.0 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities, respectively, and proceeds from life insurance of $0.5 million related to the cash surrender value from the cancellation of Teradyne owned life insurance policy. Financing activities during 2020 used cash of $158.3 million, due to $88.5 million used for the repurchase of 1.5 million shares of common stock at an average price of $58.33 per share, $66.5 million used for dividend payments, $23.0 million used for payments related to net settlement of employee stock compensation awards, and $8.9 million used for payment related to MiR acquisition contingent consideration, partially offset by $28.5 million from the issuance of common stock under employee stock purchase and stock option plans. In January 2021, May 2021, August 2021 and November 2021, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. Total dividend payments in 2021 were $66.0 million. In January 2020, May 2020, August 2020 and November 2020, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. Total dividend payments in 2020 were $66.5 million. In January 2020, our Board of Directors cancelled the January 2018 stock repurchase program and approved a new stock repurchase program for up to $1.0 billion in common stock. On April 1, 2020, we suspended the share repurchase program. In 2020, we repurchased 1.5 million shares of common stock for $88.5 million at an average price per share of $58.33. In January 2021, our Board of Directors approved a new repurchase program for up to $2.0 billion of common stock. Unless terminated by resolution of our Board of Directors, the repurchase program will expire when we have repurchased all shares authorized for repurchase under the share repurchase program. In 2021, we repurchased 4.8 million shares of common stock for $600.0 million at an average price of $125.74 per share. We intend to repurchase a minimum of $750.0 million in 2022. While we declared a quarterly cash dividend and authorized a share repurchase program, we may reduce or eliminate the cash dividend or share repurchase program in the future. Future cash dividends and stock repurchases are subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors, which will consider, among other things, our earnings, capital requirements and financial condition. On May 1, 2020, we entered into a credit agreement providing a three-year, senior secured revolving credit facility of $400 million. On December 10, 2021, the credit agreement was amended to extend the senior secured revolving credit facility to December 10, 2026. As of February 23, 2022, we have not borrowed any funds under the credit facility. We expect operations to continue to be the primary source of cash to operate the business and meet material cash commitments, including any payments of convertible debt principal, our stock repurchase program, our 38 quarterly dividends, our office lease obligations, contractual obligations related to inventory purchases and the construction of new facilities. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balance will be sufficient to pay our quarterly dividend and meet our working capital and expenditure needs for at least the next twelve months. Inflation has not had a significant long-term impact on earnings. At this time, the COVID-19 pandemic has not had an impact on our liquidity, but there is no assurance that continued impacts resulting from the pandemic will not have an adverse effect in the future. At December 31, 2021, our future contractual obligations were related to debt, leases, retirement plan liabilities, deferred tax benefits, and purchase obligations. See Note J. “Debt”, Note I. “Leases”, Note P. “Retirement Plans”, and Note S. “Income Taxes” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report for information about those obligations, which Notes are incorporated by reference into this section. Our purchase obligations were approximately $884.3 million, with $839.2 million expected to be paid within 12 months. Retirement Plans ASC 715-20, “ Compensation—Retirement Benefits—Defined Benefit Plans, ” requires an employer with defined benefit plans or other postretirement benefit plans to recognize an asset or a liability on its balance sheet for the overfunded or underfunded status of the plans as defined by ASC 715-20. The pension asset or liability represents the difference between the fair value of the pension plans’ assets and the projected benefit obligation as of December 31. For other postretirement benefit plans, the liability is the difference between the fair value of the plan’s assets and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our pension expense, which includes the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan (“U.S. Plan”), certain qualified plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries, and a U.S. Supplemental Executive Defined Benefit Plan, was approximately $1.8 million. Pension expense is calculated based upon a number of actuarial assumptions. Discount rate and expected return on assets are two assumptions which are important elements of pension plan expense and asset/liability measurement. We evaluate our discount rate and expected rate of return on assets assumptions annually on a plan and country specific basis. We evaluate other assumptions related to demographic factors, such as retirement age, mortality and turnover periodically, and update them to reflect our experience and expectations for the future. In developing the expected return on U.S. Plan assets assumption, we evaluated input from our investment manager and pension consultants, including their forecast of asset class return expectations. We believe that 2.4% was an appropriate rate of return on assets to use for 2021. The December 31, 2021 asset allocation for our U.S. Plan was 94% invested in fixed income securities, 5% invested in equity securities, and 1% invested in other securities. Our investment manager regularly reviews the actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances the portfolio to ensure alignment with our target allocations. We recognize net actuarial gains and losses and the change in the fair value of plan assets in our operating results in the year in which they occur or upon any interim remeasurement of the plans. We calculate the expected return on plan assets using the fair value of the plan assets. Actuarial gains and losses are generally measured annually as of December 31 and, accordingly, recorded during the fourth quarter of each year or upon any interim remeasurement of the plans. The discount rate that we utilized for determining future pension obligations for the U.S. Plan is based on the FTSE Pension Index adjusted for the U.S. Plan’s expected cash flows and was 2.65% at December 31, 2021, up from 2.3% at December 31, 2020. We estimate that in 2022 we will recognize approximately $1.8 million of pension expense for the U.S. Plan. The U.S. Plan pension expense estimate for 2022 is based on a 2.65% discount rate and a 2.0% return on assets. Future pension expense or income will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the employee population participating in our pension plans. 39 As of December 31, 2021, our pension plans had no unrecognized pension prior service cost. The assets of the U.S. Plan consist substantially of fixed income securities. U.S. Plan assets have decreased from $158.9 million at December 31, 2020 to $149.6 million at December 31, 2021, while the U.S. Plan’s liability decreased from $141.4 million at December 31, 2020 to $134.5 million at December 31, 2021. In 2021, the decrease in plan assets and plan liability was due to an increase in interest rates. In 2020, the accrued pension obligations for approximately 115 retiree participants were transferred to an insurance company and resulted in a $24.4 million reduction in the pension benefit obligation and pension assets. We recorded $2.2 million of pension actuarial loss and a settlement loss of $0.5 million related to the retiree group annuity transaction. Our funding policy is to make contributions to our pension plans in accordance with local laws and to the extent that such contributions are tax deductible. During 2021, we made contributions of $3.3 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan, and $1.0 million to certain qualified plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries. In 2022, we expect to contribute approximately $3.3 million to the U.S. supplemental executive defined benefit pension plan. Contributions to be made in 2022 to certain qualified plans for non-U.S. subsidiaries are based on local statutory requirements and are estimated at approximately $1.0 million. Equity Compensation Plans In addition to our 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan discussed in Note Q: “Stock-Based Compensation” in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have a 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the “2006 Equity Plan”) under which equity securities are authorized for issuance. The 2006 Equity Plan was initially approved by stockholders on May 25, 2006. At our annual meeting of stockholders held May 21, 2013, our stockholders approved an amendment to the 2006 Equity Plan to increase the number of shares issuable thereunder by 10.0 million, for an aggregate of 32.0 million shares issuable thereunder, and our stockholders also approved an amendment to our 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan to increase the number of shares issuable thereunder by 5.0 million, for an aggregate of 30.4 million shares issuable thereunder. At our annual meeting of stockholders held May 12, 2015, our stockholders approved an amendment to the 2006 Equity Plan to extend its term until May 12, 2025. At our annual meeting of stockholders held May 7, 2021, our stockholders approved an amendment to our 1996 Employee Stock Purchase Plan to increase the number of shares issuable thereunder by 3.0 million, for an aggregate of 33.4 million shares issuable thereunder. The following table presents information about these plans as of December 31, 2021 (share numbers in thousands): The purpose of the 2006 Equity Plan is to motivate employees, officers and directors by providing equity ownership and compensation opportunities in Teradyne. The aggregate number of shares available under the 2006 Equity Plan as of December 31, 2021 was 5,711,709 shares of our common stock. The 2006 Equity Plan authorizes the grant of stock-based awards in the form of (1) non-qualified and incentive stock options, (2) stock 40 appreciation rights, (3) restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards, (4) phantom stock, and (5) other stock-based awards. Awards may be tied to time-based vesting schedules and/or performance-based vesting measured by reference to performance criteria chosen by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which administers the 2006 Equity Plan. Awards may be made to any employee, officer, consultant and advisor of Teradyne and our subsidiaries, as well as, to our directors. The maximum number of shares of stock-based awards that may be granted to one participant during any one fiscal year is 2,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2021, total unrecognized compensation expense related to non-vested restricted stock units and options was $50.6 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.4 years. Performance Graph The following graph compares the change in our cumulative total shareholder return in our common stock with (i) the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and (ii) the Morningstar Global Semiconductor Equipment & Materials GR USD Industry Group. The comparison assumes $100.00 was invested on December 31, 2016 in our common stock and in each of the foregoing indices and assumes reinvestment of dividends, if any. Historic stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06 – “Debt—Debt with Conversion and Other Options and Derivatives and Hedging—Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity,” which simplifies the accounting for convertible debt instruments by reducing the number of accounting models and the number of embedded conversion features that could be recognized separately from the primary contract. This ASU requires a convertible debt instrument to be accounted for as a single liability measured at its amortized cost, as long as no other features require bifurcation and recognition as derivatives. This ASU requires an entity to use the if-converted method in the diluted earnings per share calculation for convertible instruments. This ASU permits the use of either the modified retrospective or fully retrospective method of transition. 41 On November 4, 2021, we made an irrevocable election under the indenture to require the principal portion of the remaining Notes to be settled in cash. Upon adoption of ASU 2020-06 only the amounts settled in excess of the principal will be considered in diluted earnings per share under the if-converted method. We have adopted the standard effective January 1, 2022 using the modified retrospective method of transition. As a result of adoption, we expect to record an entry to increase current debt, debt, and retained earnings by $1.5 million, $6.5 million, and $92.8 million, respectively. Mezzanine equity and additional paid-in capital are expected to be reduced by $100.8 million combined. The adoption of ASU 2020-06 will have an immaterial impact on our results of operations, statement of cash flows, and earnings per share (“EPS”).