********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Associated with Capital Markets, Credit Markets, and Real Estate Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us. The capital and credit markets are subject to volatility and disruption. We therefore may not be able to obtain new debt financing or refinance our existing debt on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to make distributions to shareholders, acquire assets and continue our development activities. Other weakened economic conditions, including job losses, high unemployment levels, stock market volatility, and uncertainty about the future, could adversely affect rental rates and occupancy levels. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. Additional key economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: • local conditions, such as an oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area; • declines in the financial condition of our residents, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some residents; • declines in market rental rates; • low mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable; • government or builder incentives which enable home buyers to put little or no money down, making alternative housing options more attractive; • regional economic downturns, including, but not limited to, business layoffs, downsizing and increased unemployment, which may impact one or more of our geographical markets; • increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to our residents; and • risks associated with a pandemic. Short-term leases could expose us to the effects of declining market rents. Our average lease terms are approximately fourteen months. As these l eases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. 3 Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income. There are numerous housing alternatives which compete with our properties in attracting residents. Our properties compete directly with other multifamily properties, condominiums, single-family homes, third-party providers of short-term rentals and serviced apartments, which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our present properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents realized. We could be negatively impacted by the risks associated with land holdings and related activities. We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning, and developing land increase as demand for apartments, or rental rates, decrease. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land may fluctuate significantly. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold certain land and may in the future acquire additional land in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully recover or at a cost which may preclude us from developing a profitable multifamily community. If there are subsequent changes in the fair market value of our land holdings and the resulting value is less than the carrying basis of our land holdings reflected in our financial statements plus estimated costs to sell, we may be required to take future impairment charges which would reduce our net income. Risks Associated with Our Operations Development, repositions, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability. We intend to continue to develop, reposition, redevelop, and construct multifamily apartment communities for our portfolio. In 2023, we expect to incur costs between approximately $190 million and $200 million related to the construction of six consolidated projects. Additionally, during 2023, we expect to incur costs between approximately $85 million and $105 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $93 million and $97 million related to repositions, redevelopment, repurposes, and revenue enhancing expenditures and between approximately $96 million and $100 million of additional recurring capital expenditures. Our development, reposition, redevelopment and other construction activities may also be exposed to a number of risks which may delay timely completion, increase our construction costs and/or decrease our profitability, including the following: • inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required permits and authorizations; • disruptions in the supply of materials or labor, increased materials and labor costs, problems with contractors or subcontractors, or other costs including those costs due to errors and omissions which occur in the design or construction process; • shortages of materials; • inability to obtain financing with favorable terms; • inability to complete construction and/or lease-up of a community on schedule; • forecasted occupancy and rental rates may differ from the actual results; and • the incurrence of costs related to the abandonment of development opportunities which we have pursued and subsequently deemed unfeasible. Our inability to successfully implement our development, repositions, redevelopment and construction strategy could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and pay distributions to shareholders. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is engaged in the business of providing general contracting services under construction contracts entered into between it and third parties. The terms of those construction contracts generally require this subsidiary to estimate the time and costs to complete a project, and assumes the risk when these estimates are greater than anticipated. As a result, profitability on those contracts is dependent on the ability to accurately predict these factors. The time and costs necessary to complete a project may be affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, those listed above, many of which are beyond this subsidiary’s control. In addition, the terms of those contracts generally require this subsidiary to warrant its work for a period of time during which it may be required to repair, replace, or rebuild non-conforming work. Further, trailing liabilities, based on various legal theories such as claims of negligent construction, may result from such projects, and these trailing liabilities may go on for a number of years depending on the length of the statute of repose in the applicable jurisdictions. 4 Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected. We may acquire additional operating properties on a selective basis. Our acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, the following: • we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties into our existing operations; • our estimates of the costs, if any, of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate; • the expected occupancy, rental rates and operating expenses may differ from the actual results; • we may not be able to obtain adequate financing; and • we may not be able to identify suitable candidates on terms acceptable to us and may not achieve expected returns or other benefits as a result of integration challenges, such as personnel and technology. Changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and property values . Certain states and local municipalities have adopted rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations, imposing restrictions on amounts of rent increases which may be charged. There are a number of additional states and local municipalities in which we operate also considering or being urged by advocacy groups to consider imposing rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations could limit our ability to enforce contractual rental obligations, increase rents, charge certain fees, evict residents, or recover increases in our operating expenses and could make it more difficult to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. The terms of laws and regulations recently enacted, future laws and regulations which may be enacted, as well as any lawsuits against us arising from such issues, could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our operating properties. Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences. We may not continue to qualify as a REIT in the future and the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our qualification as a REIT for prior years. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year we may be subject to federal and state income taxes for such year and we may not be able to requalify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years and may be subject to federal and state income taxes in those years as well. This may also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital which may adversely affect the value of our common shares. We may face other tax liabilities in the future which may impact our cash flow. These potential tax liabilities may be calculated on our income or property values at either the corporate or individual property levels. Any additional tax expense incurred would decrease the cash available for cash distributions to our common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders. Additionally, in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. Tax laws may continue to change at any time and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us. Tax laws remain under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, at the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Treasury, and by various state and local tax authorities. Future changes in tax laws including administrative interpretations, enacted tax rates, or new pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including making it more difficult or more costly for us to qualify as a REIT. 5 A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business. We use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, including internet and cloud-based systems and applications. We also use mobile devices, social networking, outside vendors and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers and residents. Such uses and the on-going advancement in technology give rise to potential cybersecurity risks with increasing sophistication, including but not limited to, security breaches, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of confidential information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and confidential information and intellectual property, including residents' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us. Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and developments and to pursue new initiatives to improve our operations, we are also expanding our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with our operations, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks and may be liable for the consequential litigation and remediation costs. Additionally, the measures we have implemented to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents may not be effective and there can be no complete assurance of prevention or anticipation of such incidents. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive data, confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of residents, potential liability and competitive disadvantage, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our third-party service providers are primarily responsible for the security of their own information technology environments and in certain instances we rely significantly on third-party service providers to supply and store our sensitive data in a secure manner. All of these third parties face potential risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours which could disrupt their businesses and therefore adversely impact us. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of these parties' information technology security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cybersecurity threats. Accordingly, we are subject to any flaw or breaches to their information technology systems, or those which they operate for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences. As of December 31, 2022, we had outstanding debt of approximately $3.7 billion. This indebtedness could have adverse consequences including but not limited to, the following: • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions is increased; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and industry conditions is limited. The notes related to our properties subject to secured debt, our unsecured credit facility, and the indenture under which our unsecured debt was issued contain customary restrictions, requirements, and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these provisions could limit our financial flexibility. A default in these provisions, if uncured, could require us to repay the indebtedness before the scheduled maturity date which could adversely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs. Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders. Substantially all of our income is derived from rental and other income from our multifamily communities. As a result, our performance depends in large part on our ability to collect rent from residents, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • delay in resident lease commencements; • decline in occupancy; • failure of residents to make rental payments when due; • the attractiveness of our properties to residents and potential residents; • our ability to adequately manage and maintain our communities; • competition from other available apartments and housing alternatives; 6 • changes in market rents; • increases in operating expenses; and • changes in governmental regulations such as eviction moratoriums, rent control, or stabilization laws regulating rental housing. Cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest with respect to debt financing. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. This requirement limits the cash available to meet required principal payments on our debt. Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the rental and occupancy rates of our multifamily properties, minimum dividend requirements to our equity holders, development, redevelopment and other capital expenditures, costs of operations, and potential acquisitions. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing earlier than anticipated. If we issue more debt we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt. We are subject to the risk our indebtedness will not be renewed, repaid, or refinanced when due or the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. Rising interest rates could both increase our borrowing costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders, and decrease our share price, if investors seek higher yields through other investments . We have secured notes with varying interest rates dependent upon various market indexes. In addition, we have an unsecured credit facility bearing interest at variable rates on all amounts drawn. We may incur other additional variable rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense, unless we make arrangements which hedge the risk of rising interest rates, and would increase the costs of refinancing existing debt and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates could adversely affect cash flow, net income, and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to shareholders. An environment of rising interest rates could also lead holders of our securities to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. One of the factors which may influence the price of our stock in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on alternative investments. Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets. Fitch, Moody's, and Standard & Poor's, the major debt rating agencies, routinely evaluate our debt and have given us ratings of A- with stable outlook, A3 with stable outlook, and A- with stable outlook, respectively, on our senior unsecured debt as of December 31, 2022. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. Due to changes in market conditions, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets. Risks Associated with Our Shares Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders. For us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must have 100 or more shareholders during the year and not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. As defined for federal income tax purposes, the term “individuals” includes a number of specified entities. To minimize the possibility of us failing to qualify as a REIT under this test, our declaration of trust includes restrictions on transfers of our shares and ownership limits. The ownership limits, as well as our ability to issue other classes of equity securities, may delay, defer, or prevent a change in control. These provisions may also deter tender offers for our common shares which may be attractive to you or limit your 7 opportunity to receive a premium for your shares which might otherwise exist if a third party were attempting to effect a change in control transaction. The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of our Board of Trust Managers and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Trust Managers may consider relevant. The Board of Trust Managers may modify the form, timing and amount of dividends from time to time. General Risk Factors Environmental, Social and Governance factors may impose additional costs and/or expose us to new risks Certain investors, customers, regulators and other stakeholders have focused more on corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) factors. Additionally, there is increased attention on these matters by various regulatory authorities, including the SEC, and the expense and activities necessary to comply with new regulations or standards may be significant. Third-party providers of corporate responsibility ratings and reports on companies have also increased in number, resulting in varied, and in some cases, inconsistent standards. Some investors use these factors to guide their investment strategies and, in some cases, may choose not to invest in us if they believe our policies relating to ESG are inadequate. The regulations and criteria for assessing corporate responsibility practices are evolving, which could result in our undertaking costly initiatives and activities to meet any new regulations or criteria. Additionally, if we are unable to or elect not to satisfy any new regulation or criteria, or do not meet the criteria of a specific third-party provider, some investors may conclude our policies with respect to ESG are inadequate, and we may face reputational damage. We have communicated certain initiatives and goals regarding ESG matters in our 2021-2022 Corporate Responsibility Report on our website, and we may communicate revised or additional initiatives or goals in the future. We could be unsuccessful or perceived to be unsuccessful in the achievement of our ESG initiatives or goals, or we could be criticized for the scope of our initiatives or goals. If we fail to meet the expectations of investors, customers, regulators, and other stakeholders; our initiatives are not executed as planned; or we do not achieve our goals, our reputation and financial results could be adversely impacted. Litigation risks could affect our business. As an owner, manager and developer of multifamily properties, we may incur liability based on various conditions at our properties and the buildings thereon, and we also have become and in the future may become involved in legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort or commercial litigation, which if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liability which is material to our financial condition or results of operations. A pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread could negatively impact our business. The impact of a new pandemic outbreak and measures to prevent its spread could negatively impact our businesses in a number of ways, including our residents’ ability or willingness to pay rents and the demand for multifamily communities within the markets we operate. Additionally, local and national authorities could continue to expand and extend certain measures imposing restrictions on our ability to enforce contractual rental obligations upon our residents and tenants. An ongoing pandemic could continue to cause severe economic, market and other disruptions worldwide. In addition, the deterioration of economic conditions as a result of a pandemic could ultimately decrease occupancy levels and market rents across our portfolio as residents reduce or defer their spending. Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses. A certain number of our properties are located in areas which have experienced and may in the future experience catastrophic weather and other natural events from time to time, including fires, snow or ice storms, windstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding, or other environmental events. These adverse weather or natural events could cause substantial damages or losses to our properties which could exceed our insurance coverage. In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the affected property, anticipated future revenue from the property, and could also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties. We expect other real estate investors will compete with us to acquire additional operating properties. This competition could increase prices for the type of properties we would likely pursue and adversely affect our ability to acquire these properties or achieve the expected profitability of such properties upon acquisition. We could be adversely impacted due to our share price fluctuations. The market price and trading volume of our common shares are subject to fluctuation due to general market conditions, the risks discussed in this report and other matters, including, but not limited to, the following: • operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • investor interest in our property portfolio; • the reputation and performance of REITs; • the attractiveness of REITs as compared to other investment vehicles; • the results of our financial condition and operations; • the perception of our growth and earnings potential; • minimum dividend requirements; • increases in market interest rates, which may lead purchasers of our common shares to demand a higher yield; and • changes in financial markets and national and regional economic and general market conditions.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes appearing elsewhere in this report. Historical results and trends which might appear in the consolidated financial statements should not be interpreted as being indicative of future operations. Discussion of our year-to-date comparisons between 2022 and 2021 is presented below. Year-to-date comparisons between 2021 and 2020 can be found in "Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. We consider portions of this report to be "forward-looking" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended, with respect to our expectations for future periods. Forward-looking statements do not discuss historical fact, but instead include statements related to expectations, projections, intentions, or other items relating to the future; forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results, or events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance our expectations will be achieved. Any statements contained herein which are not statements of historical fact should be deemed forward-looking statements. Reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements as these statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors beyond our control and could differ materially from our actual results and performance. Factors which may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us; • Short-term leases could expose us to the effects of declining market rents; • Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income; • We could be negatively impacted by the risks associated with land holdings and related activities; • Development, repositions, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability; • Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected; • Changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and property values; • Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences; • Tax laws may continue to change at any time and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us; • A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business; • We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences; • Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders; • Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition; • We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt; • Rising interest rates could both increase our borrowing costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders, and decrease our share price, if investors seek higher yields through other investments; • Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets; • Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders; • The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations; 17 • Environmental, Social and Governance factors may impose additional costs and/or expose us to new risks; • Litigation risks could affect our business; • A pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread could negatively impact our business; • Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses; • Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties; and • We could be adversely impacted due to our share price fluctuations. These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this report, and we assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements because of subsequent events. Executive Summary We are primarily engaged in the ownership, management, development, reposition, redevelopment, acquisition, and construction of multifamily apartment communities. Overall, we focus on investing in markets characterized by high-growth economic conditions, strong employment, and attractive quality of life which we believe leads to higher demand and retention of our apartments. As of December 31, 2022, we owned interests in, operated, or were developing 178 multifamily properties comprised of 60,652 apartment homes across the United States as detailed in the Property Portfolio table below. In addition, we own other land holdings which we may develop into multifamily apartment communities in the future. Business Environment and Current Outlook Our results for the year ended December 31, 2022, reflect an increase in same store revenues of approximately 11.2% as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher average rental rates which we believe was primarily attributable to improving job growth, favorable demographics with a higher propensity to rent versus buy, higher demand for multifamily housing in our markets, and a manageable supply of new multifamily housing. We currently believe the supply of multifamily homes will remain at manageable levels during 2023. However, if economic conditions were to worsen, our operating results could be adversely affected. Consolidated Results Net income attributable to common shareholders was $653.6 million and $303.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. The increase during the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021 was primarily due to a $474.1 million gain recognized as a result of the remeasurement of our previously held 31.3% ownership interest in two unconsolidated investment funds (collectively, the "Funds") upon our acquiring the remaining ownership interests in these Funds on April 1, 2022, and an increase in property operations. See further discussion of our 2022 operations as compared to 2021 in "Results of Operations," below. The increase was partially offset by recognizing a higher gain on sale of two operating properties in 2021 of  $174.4 million as compared to a $36.4 million gain on sale of one operating property in 2022. The increase was also partially offset by higher depreciation expense and amortization of in-place leases in 2022 related to the consolidation of 22 properties upon acquiring the remaining ownership interests in the Funds in 2022, and the acquisition of four operating properties in 2021. Construction Activity At December 31, 2022, we had a total of six projects under construction to be comprised of 1,950 apartment homes. Initial occupancies of these six projects are currently scheduled to occur within the next 18 months. We estimate the additional cost to complete the construction of the six projects to be approximately $306.7 million. Acquisitions Operating Properties: On April 1, 2022, we purchased the remaining 68.7% ownership interests in the Funds for cash consideration of approximately $1.1 billion, after adjusting for our assumption of approximately $515 million of existing secured mortgage debt of the Funds which remained outstanding. These Funds own 22 multifamily communities comprised of 7,247 units located in Houston, Austin, Dallas, Tampa, Raleigh, Orlando, Washington D.C., Charlotte, and Atlanta. After obtaining 100% of the ownership interests, we consolidated the Funds as of April 1, 2022, and no longer recognize fee and asset management income from property management, construction, and development activities, related expenses or equity in income for these Funds. Land: During the year ended December 31, 2022, we acquired for future development purposes two parcels of land totaling approximately 42.6 acres in Charlotte, North Carolina for an aggregate cost of approximately $32.7 million; 18 approximately 3.8 acres of land in Nashville, Tennessee for approximately $30.5 million; and approximately 15.9 acres of land in Richmond, Texas for approximately $7.8 million. Dispositions Operating Properties: During the year ended December 31, 2022, we sold one operating property comprised of 245 apartment homes located in Largo, Maryland for approximately $71.9 million and recognized a gain of approximately $36.4 million. Other In April 2022, we issued 2.9 million common shares in a public equity offering and received approximately $490.3 million in net proceeds, which we used to reduce borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility. In 2022, we issued approximately 0.2 million common shares under our then current at-the-market ("ATM") programs and received approximately $26.2 million in net proceeds. As of the date of this filing, we had common shares having an aggregate offering amount of up to $500.0 million remaining available for sale under our current 2022 ATM program. In August 2022, we amended and restated our existing credit facility to (i) add a $300 million unsecured term loan with a delayed draw feature with a maturity date of August 2024 (which may be extended at our option to August 2025), (ii) increase our existing unsecured revolving credit facility from $900 million to $1.2 billion, which may be expanded at our option up to three times and up to an additional $500 million upon satisfaction of certain conditions, (iii) amend the maturity date from March 2023 to August 2026, which may be extended at our option for two additional consecutive six-month periods, and (iv) change the interest rate from London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin to Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") plus a margin, subject to customary benchmark replacement provisions. In September 2022, we extended the maturity date of our $40 million unsecured floating rate term loan with an unrelated third party from September 2022 to September 2024. Additionally, the interest rate on the term loan was changed from LIBOR plus a margin to SOFR plus a margin. In October 2022, our Board of Trust Managers approved to increase the authorization for our share repurchase plan by approximately $230.5 million to a total of $500.0 million. There were no repurchases in 2022 or through the date of this filing, and the remaining dollar value of our common equity securities authorized to be repurchased under this program is $500.0 million. In December 2022, we used the $300 million unsecured term loan and borrowings from our unsecured revolving credit facility to repay the principal amount of our 3.15% senior unsecured note payable, which matured on December 15, 2022, for a total of $350.0 million, plus accrued interest. Future Outlook Subject to market conditions, we intend to continue to seek opportunities to develop new communities, and to redevelop, reposition and acquire existing communities. We also intend to evaluate our operating property and land development portfolio and plan to continue our practice of selective dispositions as market conditions warrant and opportunities arise. We expect to maintain a strong balance sheet and preserve our financial flexibility by continuing to focus on our core fundamentals which currently are generating positive cash flows from operations, maintaining appropriate debt levels and leverage ratios, and controlling overhead costs. We intend to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements through a combination of one or more of the following: cash flows generated from operations, draws on our unsecured credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, other unsecured borrowings, or secured mortgages. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $1.1 billion available under our $1.2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2022 and through the date of this filing, we also had common shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $500.0 million remaining available for sale under our 2022 ATM program. We believe scheduled repayments of debt during the next 12 months are manageable at approximately $500.0 million which represents approximately 13.6% of our total outstanding debt, and excludes amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs. We believe we are well-positioned with a strong balance sheet and sufficient liquidity to fund new development, redevelopment, and other capital funding requirements. We will, however, continue to assess and take further actions we believe are prudent to meet our objectives and capital requirements. 19 Property Portfolio Our multifamily property portfolio is summarized as follows: (1) In April 2022, we acquired the remaining 68.7% ownership interests of the Funds which owned these properties.  After obtaining 100% of the ownership interests, we consolidated the Funds as of April 1, 2022.  Refer to Note 7, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this transaction. 20 Stabilized Communities We generally consider a property stabilized once it reaches 90% occupancy. During the year ended December 31, 2022, stabilization was achieved at three operating properties as follows: Completed Construction in Lease-Up At December 31, 2022, we had one completed operating property in lease-up as follows: (1) Excludes leasing costs, which are expensed as incurred. Properties Under Development Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2022 included approximately $525.0 million related to properties under development and land. Of this amount, approximately $287.0 million related to our projects currently under construction. In addition, we had approximately $238.0 million primarily invested in land held for future development related to projects we currently expect to begin construction. Communities Under Construction. At December 31, 2022, we had six properties in various stages of construction as follows: (1) Property in lease-up and was 50% leased at January 30, 2023. 21 Development Pipeline Communities . At December 31, 2022, we had the following communities undergoing development activities: (1) Represents our estimate of total costs we expect to incur on these projects.  However, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results, or events. Although we believe these expectations are based upon reasonable assumptions, future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted and estimates routinely require adjustment. 22 Geographic Diversification At December 31, 2022 and 2021, our real estate assets by various markets, excluding depreciation and investments in joint ventures, were as follows: Results of Operations Changes in revenues and expenses related to our operating properties from period to period are due primarily to the performance of stabilized properties in the portfolio, the lease-up of newly constructed properties, acquisitions, and dispositions. Management considers property net operating income ("NOI") to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance to net income because it reflects the operating performance of our communities without an allocation of corporate level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. We define NOI as total property income less property operating and maintenance expenses less real estate taxes. NOI is further detailed in the Property-Level NOI table as seen below. NOI is not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our operating performance, should not be considered an alternative to net cash from operating activities as a measure of liquidity, and should not be considered an indication of cash available to fund cash needs. Additionally, NOI as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to our calculation. 23 Reconciliations of net income to NOI for the year ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows: Property-Level NOI (1) Property NOI, as reconciled above, is detailed further into the categories below for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021: * Not a meaningful percentage. 24 (1) Same store communities are communities we owned and were stabilized since January 1, 2021, excluding communities under redevelopment and properties held for sale. Non-same store communities are stabilized communities not owned or stabilized since January 1, 2021, including communities under redevelopment and excluding properties held for sale. We define communities under redevelopment as communities with capital expenditures that improve a community's cash flow and competitive position through extensive unit, exterior building, common area, and amenity upgrades. Management believes same store information is useful as it allows both management and investors to determine financial results over a particular period for the same set of communities. Development and lease-up communities are non-stabilized communities we have developed since January 1, 2021, excluding properties held for sale. Hurricane expenses include storm-related damages related to Hurricane Ian in September 2022. Dispositions/other includes those communities disposed of or held for sale which are not classified as discontinued operations, non-multifamily rental properties, expenses related to land holdings not under active development, and other miscellaneous revenues and expenses. Same Store Analysis Same store property NOI increased approximately $96.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was due to an increase of approximately $115.1 million in same store property revenues, partially offset by an increase of approximately $18.9 million in same store property expenses, for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The $115.1 million increase in same store property revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to an increase of approximately $108.2 million in rental revenues comprised of a 12.4% increase in average rental rates and higher other rental income, partially offset by a decrease in reletting income, net of uncollectible revenue. The increase was also due to higher income from our utility and other rebilling programs of $5.1 million and higher fees and other income of $1.8 million. The $18.9 million increase in same store property expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to higher real estate taxes of $5.8 million as a result of increased property valuations, higher repairs and maintenance expenses of $5.0 million, higher property insurance of $4.4 million, and higher utilities and other property expenses of $3.0 million. The increase was also due to an increase of property general and administrative expense of $4.2 million, a portion of which was due to centralizing our workforce to manage certain responsibilities for all of our communities, partially offset by a decrease in salaries of $3.5 million. Non-same Store and Development and Lease-up Analysis Property NOI from non-same store and development and lease-up communities increased $114.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was due to higher property NOI from non-same store communities of approximately $113.6 million and higher property NOI from development and lease-up communities of approximately $1.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in property NOI from our non-same store communities was primarily due to our acquiring the remaining ownership interests in the Funds on April 1, 2022, and the acquisition of four operating properties during 2021. The increases were also due to three operating properties reaching stabilization during each of the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2022. The following table details the changes, described above, relating to non-same store and development and lease-up NOI: 25 Hurricane Expenses Our communities impacted by Hurricane Ian in September 2022 incurred approximately $1.0 million of storm related expenses, with no related insurance recoveries for the year ended December 31, 2022. Dispositions/Other Property Analysis Dispositions/other property NOI decreased approximately $11.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021. The decrease was primarily due to the disposition of three operating properties during the fourth quarter of 2021 and one operating property in March 2022. Non-Property Income *Not a meaningful percentage. Fee and asset management income from property management, asset management, construction, and development activities at our joint ventures and our third-party construction projects decreased approximately $5.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. The decrease was primarily due to the consolidation of the Funds on April 1, 2022, and no longer earning the related fee and asset management income. The decrease was also due to lower fees earned related to a decrease in third-party construction activity during 2022 as compared to 2021. Interest and other income increased approximately $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to 2021. The increase was primarily due to an earn-out received in 2022 related to a technology joint venture sold in September 2020. Our deferred compensation plans incurred a loss of approximately $19.6 million in 2022 and recognized income of approximately $14.4 million in 2021. The changes were related to the performance of the investments held in deferred compensation plans for participants and were directly offset by the expense/(benefit) related to these plans, as discussed below. 26 Other Expenses *Not a meaningful percentage. Property management expenses, which primarily represent regional supervision and accounting costs related to property operations, increased approximately $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. The increase was primarily related to higher salary, benefits, and incentive compensation costs primarily due to higher regional salary related costs which were previously allocated to fee and asset management expense and now recognized in property management expense upon our consolidating the Funds after our acquisition on April 1, 2022. The increase in 2022 was also due to higher travel related expenses as compared to 2021. Property management expenses were 2.0% and 2.3% of total property revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Fee and asset management expense from property management, asset management, construction, and development activities at our joint ventures and our third-party projects decreased approximately $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. The decrease was primarily due to our consolidating the Funds on April 1, 2022, and no longer incurring any related fee and asset management expenses. General and administrative expenses increased approximately $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. Excluding deferred compensation plans, general and administrative expenses were 4.2% and 5.1% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Interest expense increased approximately $16.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. The increase in interest expense was primarily related to our assuming approximately $515 million of secured mortgage debt upon completion of the acquisition of the remaining ownership interests in the Funds on April 1, 2022 with average interest rates of approximately 4.7% as of December 31, 2022. The increase was also due to higher interest expense recognized on our unsecured revolving credit facility resulting from an increase in average balances outstanding. The increase was partially offset by higher capitalized interest during 2022 resulting from higher average balances in our development pipeline as compared to 2021. Depreciation and amortization expense increased approximately $156.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization related to our acquisition of the remaining ownership interests in the Funds on April 1, 2022, and higher depreciation related to the acquisition of four operating properties during 2021. The increase was also due to the completion of units in our development pipeline and the completion of repositions during 2021 and 2022, and was partially offset by lower depreciation expense related to the disposition of three operating properties during the fourth quarter of 2021 and one operating property during the first quarter of 2022. Our deferred compensation plans recognized a benefit of approximately $19.6 million in 2022 and incurred an expense of approximately $14.4 million in 2021. The changes were related to the performance of the investments held in deferred compensation plans for participants and were directly offset by the income/(loss) related to these plans, as discussed in the Non-Property Income section above. 27 Other The $36.4 million gain on sale for the year ended December 31, 2022 was due to the disposition of one operating property located in Largo, Maryland during the first quarter of 2022. The $174.4 million gain on sale for the year ended December 31, 2021 was due to the sale of two operating properties located in Houston, Texas and the sale of one operating property located in Laurel, Maryland during the fourth quarter of 2021. On April 1, 2022, we acquired the remaining 68.7% ownership interest in the Funds. We had previously owned a 31.3% interest in each of these Funds and accounted for the joint ventures under the equity method. As a result of acquiring the remaining ownership interests, we consolidated the Funds and recorded a gain of approximately $474.1 million which represented the difference between the fair market value and the cost basis of our previously owned equity interests. Equity in income of joint ventures decreased approximately $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 2021. The decrease was primarily due to our consolidating the Funds on April 1, 2022. Income tax expense increased approximately $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher state income taxes due to our acquiring the remaining ownership interests in the Funds on April 1, 2022, partially offset by a decrease in taxable income due to lower third-party construction activities in a taxable REIT subsidiary. Funds from Operations (“FFO”) and Adjusted FFO ("AFFO") Management considers FFO and AFFO to be appropriate supplementary measures of the financial performance of an equity REIT. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) currently defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) associated with the sale of previously depreciated operating properties, real estate depreciation and amortization, impairments of depreciable assets, and adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures to reflect FFO on the same basis. Our calculation of diluted FFO also assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive securities, including certain non-controlling interests, which are convertible into common shares. We consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses on dispositions of operating properties and depreciation, FFO can assist in the comparison of the operating performance of a company’s real estate investments between periods or to different companies. AFFO is calculated utilizing FFO less recurring capitalized expenditures which are necessary to help preserve the value of and maintain the functionality at our communities. We also consider AFFO to be a useful supplemental measure because it is frequently used by analysts and investors to evaluate a REIT's operating performance between periods or different companies. Our definition of recurring capital expenditures may differ from other REITs, and there can be no assurance our basis for computing this measure is comparable to other REITs. To facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated historical operating results, we believe FFO and AFFO should be examined in conjunction with net income attributable to common shareholders as presented in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and data included elsewhere in this report. FFO and AFFO are not defined by GAAP and should not be considered alternatives to net income attributable to common shareholders as an indication of our operating performance. Additionally, FFO and AFFO as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to our calculation. Reconciliations of net income attributable to common shareholders to FFO and AFFO for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are as follows: 28 (1) Net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes approximately $1.0 million of storm-related expenses related to Hurricane Ian. (2) FFO diluted shares for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes approximately 2.2 million weighted average share impact related to an equity offering completed in April 2022, and includes approximately 2.3 million weighted average share impact related to activity from our ATM Programs for the year ended December 31, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Financial Condition and Sources of Liquidity We intend to maintain a strong balance sheet and preserve our financial flexibility, which we believe should enhance our ability to identify and capitalize on investment opportunities as they become available. We intend to maintain what management believes is a conservative capital structure by: • extending and sequencing the maturity dates of our debt where practicable; • managing interest rate exposure using what management believes to be prudent levels of fixed and floating rate debt; • maintaining what management believes to be conservative coverage ratios; and • using what management believes to be a prudent combination of debt and equity. Our interest expense coverage ratio, net of capitalized interest, was approximately 7.4 and 6.7 times for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. This ratio is a method for calculating the amount of operating cash flows available to cover interest expense and is calculated by dividing interest expense for the period into the sum of property revenues and expenses, non-property income, and other expenses after adding back depreciation, amortization, and interest expense. Approximately 83.9% and 100% of our properties were unencumbered at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our weighted average maturity of debt was approximately 6.4 years at December 31, 2022. We also intend to strengthen our capital and liquidity positions by continuing to focus on our core fundamentals, which currently are generating positive cash flows from operations, maintaining appropriate debt levels and leverage ratios, and controlling overhead costs. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations. Other sources may include one or more of the following: availability under our unsecured credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, and other unsecured borrowings or secured mortgages. We believe our liquidity and financial condition are sufficient to meet all of our reasonably anticipated cash needs over the next 12 months including: • normal recurring operating expenses; 29 • current debt service requirements, including debt maturities; • recurring capital expenditures; • reposition expenditures; • funding of property developments, redevelopments, and acquisitions; and • the minimum dividend payments required to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code. Factors which could increase or decrease our future liquidity include but are not limited to volatility in capital and credit markets, changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws, sources of financing, the minimum REIT dividend requirements, our ability to complete asset purchases, sales, or developments, the effect our debt level and changes in credit ratings could have on our cost of funds, and our ability to access capital markets. Cash Flows The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Net cash from operating activities was approximately $744.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to approximately $577.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to the increase in cash from property operations due to our acquiring the remaining interests in the Funds, and the growth attributable to our same store, non-same store and development and lease-up communities. See further discussions of our 2022 operations as compared to 2021 in "Results of Operations." Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022 totaled approximately $1.5 billion as compared to $804.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. Cash outflows during 2022 primarily related to the acquisition of the Funds for cash consideration of approximately $1.1 billion, and amounts paid for property development and capital improvements of approximately $449.4 million. These outflows were partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of one operating property of approximately $70.5 million. Cash outflows during 2021 primarily related to the acquisition of four operating properties for approximately $630.0 million, and amounts paid for property development and capital improvements of approximately $428.7 million. These outflows were partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of three operating properties of approximately $254.7 million. The increase in property development and capital improvements for 2022, as compared to the same period in 2021, was primarily due to higher capital expenditures, capitalized interest, real estate taxes and other capitalized indirect costs, partially offset by the timing and completion of five consolidated operating properties in 2022 and 2021.  The property development and capital improvements during 2022 and 2021, included the following: Net cash from financing activities totaled approximately $109.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to approximately $421.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. Cash inflows during 2022 primarily related to net proceeds of $516.8 million from the issuance of approximately 2.9 million common shares from our equity offering and approximately 0.2 million common shares from our ATM programs, as well as net proceeds of approximately $300.0 million of borrowings under our unsecured term loan, and net proceeds of $42.0 million of borrowings from our unsecured revolving credit facility. These cash inflows were partially offset by approximately $396.8 million to pay distributions to common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders, and the repayment of $350.0 million senior unsecured notes in the fourth quarter of 2022. Cash inflows during 2021 primarily related to net proceeds of approximately $759.2 million from the issuance of approximately 5.4 million common shares from our ATM programs. These cash inflows were partially offset by approximately $343.0 million to pay distributions to common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders. Financial Flexibility In August 2022, we amended and restated our existing credit facility to among other things, add a $300 million unsecured term loan with a delayed draw feature that matures in August 2024 (which may be extended at the Company's option to August 2025), and increase the capacity of our existing unsecured revolving credit facility from $900 million to $1.2 billion which may 30 be expanded, upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, by up to three times and $500 million in the aggregate by requesting increases to the revolving credit facility and term loan or requesting additional term loans. We also extended the maturity date of the revolving credit facility from March 2023 to August 2026, with two options to further extend the facility at our election for two additional consecutive six-month periods. The interest rates on our unsecured revolving credit facility and delayed term loan are based upon SOFR plus a margin which is subject to change as our credit ratings change. Advances under our revolving credit facility may be priced at the scheduled rates, or we may enter into bid rate loans with participating banks at rates below the scheduled rates. These bid rate loans have terms of 180 days or less and may not exceed the lesser of $600 million or the remaining amount available under our revolving credit facility. Our revolving credit facility and delayed term loan are subject to customary financial covenants and limitations. We believe we are in compliance with all such financial covenants and limitations as of December 31, 2022 and through the date of this filing. Our unsecured revolving credit facility provides us with the ability to issue up to $50 million in letters of credit. While our issuance of letters of credit does not increase our borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, it does reduce the amount available. At December 31, 2022, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $14.2 million, approximately $1.1 billion  available under our unsecured revolving credit facility, and approximately $300 million outstanding on our term loan. In May 2022, we created an ATM share offering program through which we can, but have no obligation to, sell common shares for an aggregate offering amount of up to $500.0 million (the "2022 ATM program"), in amounts and at times as we determine, into the existing trading market at current market prices as well as through negotiated transactions. Actual sales from time to time may depend on a variety of factors including, among others, market conditions, the trading price of our common shares, and determinations by management of the appropriate sources of funding for us. The proceeds from any sale of our common shares under the 2022 ATM program are intended to be used for general corporate purposes, which may include reducing future borrowings under our unsecured credit facility, the repayment of other indebtedness, the redemption or other repurchase of outstanding debt or equity securities, funding for development activities, and financing for acquisitions. As of the date of this filing we have not entered into any forward sales agreements and have common shares having an aggregate offering amount of up to $500.0 million remaining available for sale under this ATM program. We currently have an automatic shelf registration statement which allows us to offer, from time to time, common shares, preferred shares, debt securities, or warrants. Our Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust provides we may issue up to 185 million shares of beneficial interest, consisting of 175 million common shares and 10 million preferred shares. At December 31, 2022, we had approximately 106.5 million common shares outstanding, net of treasury shares and shares held in our deferred compensation arrangements, and no preferred shares outstanding. We believe our ability to access the capital markets is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings by Fitch, Moody's, and Standard and Poor's, which were A- with stable outlook, A3 with stable outlook, and A- with stable outlook, respectively, as of December 31, 2022. We believe our ability to access the capital markets is also enhanced by our ability to borrow on a secured basis from various institutions including banks, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or life insurance companies. However, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings and may not be able to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis in the future. Future Cash Requirements and Contractual Obligations One of our principal long-term liquidity requirements includes the repayment of maturing debt, including any future borrowings under our unsecured credit facility. We believe scheduled repayments of debt during the next 12 months are manageable at approximately $500.0 million which represents approximately 13.6% of our total outstanding debt, and excludes amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs. See Note 9, “Notes Payable,” in the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of scheduled maturities beyond 2023. Interest payments related to the debt discussed above and as further discussed in Note 9 will be approximately $111.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and for the years ending 2024 through 2027 will be approximately $92.3 million, $80.3 million, $68.5 million and $67.8 million, respectively, and approximately $310.6 million in the aggregate thereafter. We estimate the additional cost to complete the construction of the six consolidated projects to be approximately $306.7 million. Of this amount, we expect to incur costs between approximately $190 million and $200 million during 2023 and to incur the remaining costs during 2024. Additionally, we expect to incur costs between approximately $85 million and $105 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $93 million and $97 million of repositions, redevelopment, repurposes, and revenue enhancing expenditures and between approximately $96 million and $100 million of additional recurring capital expenditures during 2023. We anticipate meeting our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements through a combination of one or more of the following: cash flows generated from operations, draws on our unsecured credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, 31 other unsecured borrowings, or secured mortgages. We continue to evaluate our operating properties and land development portfolio and plan to continue our practice of selective dispositions as market conditions warrant and opportunities arise. As a REIT, we are subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute current dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our annual taxable income. In order to reduce the amount of income taxes, our general policy is to distribute at least 100% of our taxable income. In December 2022, we announced our Board of Trust Managers had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.94 per common share to our common shareholders of record as of December 16, 2022. This dividend was subsequently paid on January 17, 2023, and we paid equivalent amounts per unit to holders of common operating partnership units. When aggregated with previous 2022 dividends, this distribution to common shareholders and holders of the common operating partnership units equates to an annual dividend rate of $3.76 per share or unit for the year ended December 31, 2022. In the first quarter of 2023, the Company's Board of Trust Managers declared a first quarter dividend of $1.00 per common share to our common shareholders of record as of March 31, 2023. Future dividend payments are paid at the discretion of the Board of Trust Managers and depend on cash flows generated from operations, the Company's financial condition and capital requirements, distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors, including the Company's past performance and future prospects, which may be deemed relevant by our Board of Trust Managers. Assuming similar dividend distributions for the remainder of 2023, our annualized dividend rate for 2023 would be $4.00. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. These estimates are based on historical experience and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies. For a discussion of all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements," to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Valuation of Assets . Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment may exist if estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with long-lived assets are not sufficient to recover the carrying value of such assets. We consider projected future undiscounted cash flows, trends, strategic decisions regarding future development plans, and other factors in our assessment of whether impairment indicators exist. While we believe our estimates of future cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding a number of factors, including market rents, economic conditions, and occupancies, could significantly affect these estimates. When impairment exists, the long-lived asset is adjusted to its fair value. In estimating fair value, management uses appraisals, management estimates, and discounted cash flow calculations which utilize inputs from a marketplace participant’s perspective. In addition, we evaluate our equity investments in joint ventures, if any, and if we believe there is an other than temporary decline in market value of our investment below our carrying value, we will record an impairment charge. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, or 2020. The value of our properties under development depends on market conditions, including estimates of the project start date, projected construction costs, as well as estimates of demand for multifamily communities. We have reviewed market trends and other marketplace information and have incorporated this information as well as our current outlook into the assumptions we use in our impairment analyses. Due to the judgment and assumptions applied in the impairment analyses, it is possible actual results could differ substantially from those estimated. We believe the carrying value of our operating real estate assets, properties under development, and land is currently recoverable. However, if market conditions deteriorate or if changes in our development strategy significantly affect any key assumptions used in our fair value estimates, we may need to take material charges in future periods for impairments related to existing assets. Any such material non-cash charges could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.