********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Associated with Capital Markets, Credit Markets, and Real Estate Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us. The capital and credit markets are subject to volatility and disruption. Throughout 2023, in efforts to curb inflation, the Federal Reserve increased interest rates. Additionally, as a result of concerns about the recent deterioration in the financial markets, including the failures of banks during 2023, the cost of obtaining debt from credit and capital markets increased as many lenders increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, and reduced and, in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. If we need to incur debt from a source other than our revolving credit facility, we cannot be certain the additional financing will be available to the extent required and on acceptable terms. If debt financing on acceptable terms is not available, we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy, otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition (including liquidity), and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Other weakened economic conditions, including job losses, high unemployment levels, stock market volatility, and uncertainty about the future, could adversely affect rental rates and occupancy levels. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. Additional key economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: • local conditions, such as an oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area; • declines in the financial condition of our residents, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some residents; • declines in market rental rates; • low mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable; • government or builder incentives which enable home buyers to put little or no money down, making alternative housing options more attractive; • regional economic downturns, including, but not limited to, business layoffs, downsizing, and increased unemployment, which may impact one or more of our geographical markets; • increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to our residents; and • global or locally-targeted pandemics, epidemics, or other health crises, and any related measures enacted to prevent their spread or restricting our ability to enforce contractual rental obligations upon our residents. Short-term leases could expose us to the effects of declining market rents. Our average lease terms are approximately fourteen months. As these l eases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. 3 Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income. There are numerous housing alternatives which compete with our properties in attracting residents. Our properties compete directly with other multifamily properties, condominiums, single-family homes, and third-party providers of short-term rentals, which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our present properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents realized. We could be negatively impacted by the risks associated with land holdings and related activities. We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning, and developing land increase as demand for apartments, or rental rates, decrease. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land may fluctuate significantly. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold certain land and may in the future acquire additional land in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully recover or at a cost which may preclude us from developing a profitable multifamily community. If there are subsequent changes in the fair market value of our land holdings and the resulting value is less than the carrying basis of our land holdings reflected in our financial statements plus estimated costs to sell, we may be required to take future impairment charges which would reduce our net income. Risks Associated with Our Operations Development, repositions, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability. We intend to continue to develop, reposition, redevelop, and construct multifamily apartment communities for our portfolio. In 2024, we expect to incur costs between approximately $120 million and $130 million related to the construction of four projects. Additionally, during 2024, we expect to incur costs between approximately $40 million and $60 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $90 million and $94 million related to repositions, redevelopment, repurposes, and revenue enhancing expenditures and between approximately $101 million and $105 million of additional recurring capital expenditures. Our development, reposition, redevelopment, and other construction activities may also be exposed to a number of risks which may delay timely completion, increase our construction costs, and/or decrease our profitability, including the following: • inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required permits and authorizations; • disruptions in the supply of materials or labor, increased materials and labor costs, problems with contractors or subcontractors, or other costs including those costs due to errors and omissions which occur in the design or construction process; • shortages of materials; • inability to obtain financing with favorable terms; • inability to complete construction and/or lease-up of a community on schedule; • forecasted occupancy and rental rates may differ from the actual results; and • the incurrence of costs related to the abandonment of development opportunities which we have pursued and subsequently deemed unfeasible. Our inability to successfully implement our development, repositions, redevelopment, and construction strategy could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and pay distributions to shareholders. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is engaged in the business of providing general contracting services under construction contracts entered between it and third parties. The terms of those construction contracts generally require this subsidiary to estimate the time and costs to complete a project and assumes the risk when these estimates are greater than anticipated. As a result, profitability on those contracts is dependent on the ability to accurately predict these factors. The time and costs necessary to complete a project may be affected by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, those listed above, many of which are beyond this subsidiary’s control. In addition, the terms of those contracts generally require this subsidiary to warrant its work for a period of time during which it may be required to repair, replace, or rebuild non-conforming work. Further, trailing liabilities, based on various legal theories such as claims of negligent construction, may result from such projects, and these trailing liabilities may go on for a number of years depending on the length of the statute of repose in the applicable jurisdictions. 4 Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected. We may acquire additional operating properties on a selective basis. Our acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, the following: • we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties into our existing operations; • our estimates of the costs, if any, of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate; • the expected occupancy, rental rates, and operating expenses may differ from the actual results; • we may not be able to obtain adequate financing; and • we may not be able to identify suitable candidates on terms acceptable to us and may not achieve expected returns or other benefits as a result of integration challenges, such as personnel and technology. Changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and property values . Certain states and local municipalities have adopted rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations, imposing restrictions on amounts of rent increases which may be charged. There are a number of additional states and local municipalities in which we operate also considering or being urged by advocacy groups to consider imposing rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations could limit our ability to enforce contractual rental obligations, increase rents, charge certain fees, evict residents, or recover increases in our operating expenses and could make it more difficult to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. The terms of laws and regulations recently enacted, future laws and regulations which may be enacted, as well as any lawsuits against us arising from such issues, could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our operating properties. Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences. We may not continue to qualify as a REIT in the future and the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our qualification as a REIT for prior years. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year we may be subject to federal and state income taxes for such year and we may not be able to requalify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years and may be subject to federal and state income taxes in those years as well. This may also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital which may adversely affect the value of our common shares. We may face other tax liabilities in the future which may impact our cash flow. These potential tax liabilities may be calculated on our income or property values at either the corporate or individual property levels. Any additional tax expense incurred would decrease the cash available for cash distributions to our common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders. Additionally, in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. Tax laws may continue to change at any time and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us. Tax laws remain under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, at the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Treasury, and by various state and local tax authorities. Future changes in tax laws including administrative interpretations, enacted tax rates, or new pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including making it more difficult or more costly for us to qualify as a REIT. 5 A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business. We use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, including internet and cloud-based systems and applications. We also use mobile devices, social networking, outside vendors, and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers, and residents. Such uses and the on-going advancement in technology such as generative artificial intelligence, machine learning, and remote connectivity solutions give rise to potential cybersecurity risks with increasing sophistication, including but not limited to, security breaches, espionage, system disruption, theft, and inadvertent release of confidential information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and confidential information and intellectual property, including residents' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us. Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and developments and to pursue new initiatives to improve our operations, we are also expanding our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with our operations, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks and may be liable for the consequential litigation and remediation costs. Additionally, the measures we have implemented to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents may not be effective and there can be no complete assurance of prevention or anticipation of such incidents. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive data, confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of residents, potential liability, and competitive disadvantage, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our third-party service providers are primarily responsible for the security of their own information technology environments and in certain instances we rely significantly on third-party service providers to supply and store our sensitive data in a secure manner. All of these third parties face potential risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours which could disrupt their businesses and therefore adversely impact us. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of these parties' information technology security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cybersecurity threats. Accordingly, we are subject to any flaw or breaches to their information technology systems, or those which they operate for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences. As of December 31, 2023, we had outstanding debt of approximately $3.7 billion. This indebtedness could have adverse consequences including but not limited to, the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and industry conditions. The notes related to our properties subject to secured debt, our unsecured term loans, and unsecured revolving credit facility, and the indenture under which our unsecured debt was issued contain customary restrictions, requirements, and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these provisions could limit our financial flexibility. A default in these provisions, if uncured, could require us to repay the indebtedness before the scheduled maturity date which could adversely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs. Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders. Substantially all of our income is derived from rental and other income from our multifamily communities. As a result, our performance depends in large part on our ability to collect rent from residents, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • delay in resident lease commencements; • decline in occupancy; • failure of residents to make rental payments when due; • the attractiveness of our properties to residents and potential residents; • our ability to adequately manage and maintain our communities; 6 • competition from other available apartments and housing alternatives; • changes in market rents; • increases in operating expenses; and • changes in governmental regulations such as eviction moratoriums, rent control, or stabilization laws regulating rental housing. Cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest with respect to debt financing. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. This requirement limits the cash available to meet required principal payments on our debt. Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the rental and occupancy rates of our multifamily properties, minimum dividend requirements to our equity holders, development, redevelopment and other capital expenditures, costs of operations, and potential acquisitions. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing earlier than anticipated. If we issue more debt we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt. We are subject to the risk our indebtedness will not be renewed, repaid, or refinanced when due or the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. Rising interest rates could increase our borrowing costs, lower the value of our real estate, and decrease our share price, leading investors to seek higher yields through other investments . As of the date of this filing, we have an unsecured term loan with varying interest rates dependent upon various market indexes. In addition, we have an unsecured revolving credit facility bearing interest at variable rates on all amounts drawn and a  senior unsecured note which has been converted into a floating rate instrument through an interest rate swap arrangement. We may incur other additional variable rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense, unless we make arrangements which hedge the risk of rising interest rates, and would increase the costs of refinancing existing debt and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates could adversely affect cash flow, net income, and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to shareholders. An environment of rising interest rates may also result in a decrease in the value of our real estate and a decrease in the market price of our shares, which may lead holders of our securities to seek higher yields through other investments. Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets. Fitch, Moody's, and Standard & Poor's, the major debt rating agencies, routinely evaluate our debt and have given us ratings of A- with stable outlook, A3 with stable outlook, and A- with stable outlook, respectively, on our senior unsecured debt as of December 31, 2023. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. Due to changes in market conditions, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets. Risks Associated with Our Shares Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders. For us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must have 100 or more shareholders during the year and not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. As defined for federal income tax purposes, the term "individuals" includes a number of specified entities. To minimize the possibility of us failing to qualify as a REIT under this test, our declaration of trust includes restrictions on transfers of our shares and ownership limits. The ownership limits, as well as our ability to issue other classes of equity securities, may delay, defer, or prevent a change in 7 control. These provisions may also deter tender offers for our common shares which may be attractive to you or limit your opportunity to receive a premium for your shares which might otherwise exist if a third party were attempting to effect a change in control transaction. The form, timing, and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. The form, timing, and amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of our Board of Trust Managers and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Trust Managers may consider relevant. The Board of Trust Managers may modify the form, timing, and amount of dividends from time to time. General Risk Factors Environmental, social, and governance factors may impose additional costs and/or expose us to new risks Certain investors, customers, regulators, and other stakeholders are placing increased importance corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") factors. Additionally, there is increased attention to these matters by various state and federal regulatory authorities, including the SEC, and the expense and activities necessary to comply with new regulations or standards may be significant, which may adversely impact our financial results. Third-party providers of corporate responsibility ratings and reports on companies have increased, resulting in varied, and potentially, inconsistent standards. We may face reputational damage if our corporate responsibility procedures or standards do not meet the standards met by various constituencies. Also, some investors use these factors to guide their investment strategies and, in some cases, may choose not to invest in us based on their assessment of our approach to ESG factors, which could have an adverse impact on the price of our securities. Litigation risks could affect our business. As an owner, manager, and developer of multifamily properties, we may incur liability based on various conditions at our properties and the buildings thereon, and we also have become and in the future may become involved in legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort or commercial litigation, which if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liability which is material to our financial condition or results of operations. Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses. A certain number of our properties are located in areas which have experienced and may in the future experience catastrophic weather and other natural events from time to time, including fires, snow or ice storms, windstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding, or other environmental events. These adverse weather or natural events could cause substantial damages or losses to our properties which could exceed our insurance coverage. In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the affected property, anticipated future revenue from the property, and could also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties. We expect other real estate investors will compete with us to acquire additional operating properties. This competition could increase prices for the type of properties we would likely pursue and adversely affect our ability to acquire these properties or achieve the expected profitability of such properties upon acquisition. We could be adversely impacted due to our share price fluctuations. The market price and trading volume of our common shares are subject to fluctuation due to general market conditions, the risks discussed in this report and other matters, including, but not limited to, the following: • operating results which vary from the expectations of securities' analysts and investors; • investor interest in our property portfolio; • the reputation and performance of REITs; • the attractiveness of REITs as compared to other investment vehicles; • the results of our financial condition and operations; • the perception of our growth and earnings potential; 8 • minimum dividend requirements; • increases in market interest rates may lower the values of our real estate and the price of our shares; and • changes in financial markets and national and regional economic and general market conditions.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes appearing elsewhere in this report. Historical results and trends which might appear in the consolidated financial statements should not be interpreted as being indicative of future operations. Discussion of our year-to-date comparisons between 2023 and 2022 is presented below. Year-to-date comparisons between 2022 and 2021 can be found in "Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. We consider portions of this report to be "forward-looking" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended, with respect to our expectations for future periods. Forward-looking statements do not discuss historical fact, but instead include statements related to expectations, projections, intentions, or other items relating to the future; forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results, or events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance our expectations will be achieved. Any statements contained herein which are not statements of historical fact should be deemed forward-looking statements. Reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements as these statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors beyond our control and could differ materially from our actual results and performance. Factors which may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us; • Short-term leases could expose us to the effects of declining market rents; • Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income; • We could be negatively impacted by the risks associated with land holdings and related activities; • Development, repositions, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability; • Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected; • Changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and property values; • Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences; • Tax laws may continue to change at any time and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us; • A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business; • We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences; • Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders; • Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition; • We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt; • Rising interest rates could increase our borrowing costs, lower the value of our real estate, and decrease our share price, leading investors to seek higher yields through other investments; • Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets; • Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders; • The form, timing, and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations; • Environmental, social, and governance factors may impose additional costs and/or expose us to new risks; • Litigation risks could affect our business; 18 • Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses; • Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties; and • We could be adversely impacted due to our share price fluctuations. These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this report, and we assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements because of subsequent events. Executive Summary We are primarily engaged in the ownership, management, development, reposition, redevelopment, acquisition, and construction of multifamily apartment communities. Overall, we focus on investing in markets characterized by high-growth economic conditions, strong employment, and attractive quality of life which we believe leads to higher demand and retention of our apartments. As of December 31, 2023, we owned interests in, operated, or were developing 176 multifamily properties comprised of 59,800 apartment homes across the United States as detailed in the Property Portfolio table below. In addition, we own other land holdings which we may develop into multifamily apartment communities in the future. Business Environment and Current Outlook Our results for the year ended December 31, 2023, reflect an increase in same store revenues of approximately 5.1% as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher average rental rates which we believe was primarily attributable to job growth, favorable demographics with a higher propensity to rent versus buy, continued demand for multifamily housing in our markets, and a manageable supply of new multifamily housing. We believe the levels of new multifamily supply in the submarkets and asset classes in which we operate will likely rise in 2024, but should be met with continued demand to absorb these new deliveries. However, if this were to change or other economic conditions were to worsen, our operating results could be adversely affected. Consolidated Results Net income attributable to common shareholders was $403.3 million and $653.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The decrease during the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022 was primarily due to a $474.1 million gain recognized in 2022 as a result of the remeasurement of our previously held 31.3% ownership interest in two unconsolidated Funds (collectively, "the Funds" or "the acquisition of the Funds") upon our acquiring the remaining ownership interests on April 1, 2022. The decrease was also due to higher interest expense incurred during the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was partially offset by recognizing a higher gain on sale of two operating properties during the year ended December 31, 2023 of approximately $225.3 million as compared to a gain on sale of one operating property during the year ended December 31, 2022 of approximately $36.4 million. The decrease was further offset by an increase in property operations during the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. See further discussion of our 2023 operations as compared to 2022 in below. Construction Activity At December 31, 2023, we had a total of four projects under construction to be comprised of 1,166 apartment homes. Initial occupancies of these four projects are currently scheduled to occur within the next nine months. We estimate the additional cost to complete the construction of the four projects to be approximately $137.6 million. Dispositions Operating Properties: During the year ended December 31, 2023, we sold two operating properties comprised of an aggregate of 852 apartment homes located in Costa Mesa, California for an aggregate of approximately $293.1 million and recognized a gain of approximately $225.3 million. Other In May 2023, we created an at-the market ("ATM") share offering program through which we can, but have no obligation to, sell common shares and we may also enter into separate forward sale agreements with forward purchasers for an aggregate offering price of up to $500.0 million (the "2023 ATM program"). As of the date of this filing, we have $500.0 million available for sale under this program. In May 2023, we utilized draws our unsecured revolving credit facility to retire our $185.2 million secured variable rate notes due in 2024 and 2026. As a result of the early repayments, we recorded a $2.5 million loss on early retirement of debt in 19 our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, which was comprised of approximately $1.7 million of prepayment penalties and fees and approximately $0.8 million for the write-off of unamortized fair value adjustments. In June 2023, we utilized draws on our unsecured revolving credit facility to repay the principal amount of our 5.07% senior unsecured notes payable, which matured on June 15, 2023, for a total of $250.0 million, plus accrued interest. In November 2023, we issued $500.0 million of 5.85% senior unsecured notes due November 3, 2026. We utilized an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $500.0 million which exposes us to interest rate fluctuations on these notes. This interest rate swap was designated and qualified as a fair value hedging instrument. Subsequent Events In January 2024, we issued $400.0 million of 4.90% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2034. We utilized a portion of the net proceeds from these notes to repay the outstanding balance on our $300 million, 6.21% unsecured term loan due in August 2024. In January 2024, we utilized cash on hand to repay the principal amount of our 4.36% senior unsecured notes payable, which matured on January 15, 2024, for a total of $250.0 million, plus accrued interest. In February 2024, we sold one operating property comprised of 592 apartment homes located in Atlanta, Georgia for approximately $115.0 million. Future Outlook Subject to market conditions, we intend to continue to seek opportunities to develop new communities, and to redevelop, reposition and acquire existing communities. We also intend to evaluate our operating property and land development portfolio and plan to continue our practice of selective dispositions as market conditions warrant and opportunities arise. We expect to maintain a strong balance sheet and preserve our financial flexibility by continuing to focus on our core fundamentals which currently are generating positive cash flows from operations, maintaining appropriate debt levels and leverage ratios, and controlling overhead costs. We intend to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements through a combination of one or more of the following: cash flows generated from operations, draws on our unsecured revolving credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, other unsecured borrowings, or secured mortgages. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $1.2 billion available under our unsecured revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2023 and through the date of this filing, we also had common shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $500.0 million remaining available for sale under our 2023 ATM program. We believe the remaining scheduled payments of debt over the next 12 months are manageable at approximately $290.0 million, which excludes the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs as well as the $550 million of debt we repaid in January 2024, as discussed above. We also believe we are well-positioned with a strong balance sheet and sufficient liquidity to fund new development, redevelopment, and other capital funding requirements. We will, however, continue to assess and take further actions we believe are prudent to meet our objectives and capital requirements. 20 Property Portfolio Our multifamily property portfolio is summarized as follows: Stabilized Communities We generally consider a property stabilized once it reaches 90% occupancy. During the year ended December 31, 2023, stabilization was achieved at two operating properties as follows: 21 Completed Construction in Lease-Up At December 31, 2023, we had one completed operating property in lease-up as follows: (1) Excludes leasing costs, which are expensed as incurred. Properties Under Development Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2023 included approximately $486.9 million related to properties under development and land. Of this amount, approximately $214.0 million related to our projects currently under construction. In addition, we had approximately $272.9 million primarily invested in land held for future development related to projects we currently expect to begin construction. Communities Under Construction. At December 31, 2023, we had four properties in various stages of construction as follows: (1) Property in lease-up and was 17% leased at January 31, 2024. (2) Property in lease-up and was 15% leased at January 31, 2024. 22 Development Pipeline Communities . At December 31, 2023, we had the following communities undergoing development activities: (1) Represents our estimate of total costs we expect to incur on these projects. However, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results, or events. Although we believe these expectations are based upon reasonable assumptions, future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted and estimates routinely require adjustment. 23 Geographic Diversification At December 31, 2023 and 2022, our real estate assets by various markets, excluding depreciation, were as follows: Results of Operations Changes in revenues and expenses related to our operating properties from period-to-period are due primarily to the performance of stabilized properties in the portfolio, the lease-up of newly-constructed properties, acquisitions, and dispositions. Management considers property net operating income ("NOI") to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance to net income because it reflects the operating performance of our communities without an allocation of corporate level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. We define NOI as total property income less property operating and maintenance expenses less real estate taxes. NOI is further detailed in the Property-Level NOI table as seen below. NOI is not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our operating performance, should not be considered an alternative to net cash from operating activities as a measure of liquidity, and should not be considered an indication of cash available to fund cash needs. Additionally, NOI as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to our calculation. 24 Reconciliations of net income to NOI for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 are as follows: Property-Level NOI (1) Property NOI, as reconciled above, is detailed further into the categories below for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022: * Not a meaningful percentage. 25 (1)    For 2023, s ame store communities are communities we owned and were stabilized since January 1, 2022, excluding communities under redevelopment and properties held for sale. Non-same store communities are stabilized communities not owned or stabilized since January 1, 2022, including communities under redevelopment and excluding properties held for sale. We define communities under redevelopment as communities with capital expenditures that improve a community's cash flow and competitive position through extensive unit, exterior building, common area, and amenity upgrades. Management believes same store information is useful as it allows both management and investors to determine financial results over a particular period for the same set of communities. Development and lease-up communities are non-stabilized communities we have developed since January 1, 2022, excluding properties held for sale. Dispositions/other includes those communities disposed of or held for sale which are not classified as discontinued operations, non-multifamily rental properties, expenses related to land holdings not under active development, and other miscellaneous revenues and expenses, including net below market leases, casualty-related expenses net of recoveries, and severance related costs. Same Store Analysis Same store property NOI increased approximately $33.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase was due to an increase of approximately $60.3 million in same store property revenues, partially offset by an increase of approximately $27.1 million in same store property expenses, for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The $60.3 million increase in same store property revenues for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to an increase of approximately $56.5 million in rental revenues comprised of a 6.6% increase in average rental rates and higher other rental income. The increase was also due to an increase of approximately $3.3 million related to income from our utility rebilling and ancillary income programs, and an increase of approximately $0.5 million in fees and other income. The $27.1 million increase in same store property expenses for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to higher insurance expense of approximately $9.7 million primarily due to increased premiums and claims; repairs and maintenance expense of $4.8 million; real estate taxes of $4.6 million due to increased tax rates and property valuations; utilities expense of $3.4 million; and, marketing and leasing expenses of $1.7 million. The increase was also due to higher property general and administrative expenses of $3.4 million, a portion of which was due to centralizing our workforce to manage certain responsibilities for all of our communities during 2022, and was partially offset by a decrease in salaries expense of $0.5 million. Non-same Store and Development and Lease-up Analysis Property NOI from non-same store (which includes acquisitions, non-same store stabilized properties, and other) and development and lease-up communities increased $42.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase was comprised of an increase from non-same store communities of approximately $40.0 million and an increase from development and lease-up communities of approximately $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in property NOI from our non-same store communities was primarily due to our acquisition of the Funds on April 1, 2022, and the stabilization of three operating properties in 2022 and two operating properties in 2023. The increase in property NOI from our development and lease-up communities in fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to the timing of one property under development, which began lease-up during the year ended December 31, 2023. The following table details the changes, described above, relating to non-same store and development and lease-up NOI: 26 Dispositions/Other Property Analysis Dispositions/other property NOI decreased approximately $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was comprised of  lower NOI related to dispositions of approximately $1.4 million and lower other property NOI of approximately $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease in NOI related to dispositions was due to the disposition of two operating properties in 2023, and the disposition of one operating property in March 2022. The lower other property NOI was primarily due to a decrease in revenues in 2023 related to approximately $7.6 million of net below market leases recognized during the year ended December 31, 2022 as a result of the acquisition of the Funds in April 2022. The decrease in other property NOI was partially offset by higher revenues of approximately $1.1 million related to business interruptions received during the year ended December 31, 2023. Non-Property Income *Not a meaningful percentage. Fee and asset management income from property management, asset management, construction, and development activities at our joint ventures and our third-party construction projects decreased approximately $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to the consolidation of the Funds on April 1, 2022, and no longer earning the related fee and asset management income. The decrease was also due to slightly lower fees earned related to a decrease in third-party construction activity during 2023 as compared to 2022. Interest and other income decreased approximately $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a higher earn-out received in 2022 as compared to 2023 related to a technology joint venture sold in September 2020. Our deferred compensation plans recognized income of approximately $15.4 million in 2023 and incurred a loss of approximately $19.6 million in 2022. The changes were related to the performance of the investments held in deferred compensation plans for participants and were directly offset by the expense/(benefit) related to these plans, as discussed below. 27 Other Expenses *Not a meaningful percentage. Property management expenses, which primarily represent regional supervision and accounting costs related to property operations, increased approximately $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase was primarily related to higher salary, benefits, and incentive compensation costs and higher travel related costs. Property management expenses were 2.2% and 2.0% of total property revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Fee and asset management expense from property management, asset management, construction, and development activities at our joint ventures and our third-party projects decreased approximately $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to our consolidating the Funds on April 1, 2022, and no longer having any related fee and asset management expenses. General and administrative expenses increased approximately $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022. Excluding deferred compensation plans, general and administrative expenses were 4.0% and 4.2% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Interest expense increased approximately $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022. The increase was primarily due to a $300 million term loan we entered into in December 2022, the issuance of $500 million unsecured notes in November 2023, higher interest expense recognized on our unsecured revolving credit facility resulting from higher interest rates and an increase in average balances outstanding, and higher interest expense recognized on our other variable rate debt outstanding in 2023 due to higher interest rates as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase in 2023 was also due to an increase in interest expense related to our assuming approximately $515 million of secured mortgage debt upon completion of the acquisition of the Funds on April 1, 2022. The increase in interest expense in 2023 was partially offset by lower interest expense related to the repayment of a $350 million, 3.15% senior unsecured notes payable in December 2022, the repayment of a $250 million, 5.07% senior unsecured notes payable in June 2023, and higher capitalized interest in 2023 resulting from higher interest rates on our unsecured revolving credit facility. The increase in 2023 was also partially offset by lower interest expense in 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, related to the early retirement of $185.2 million of secured variable rate notes in May 2023. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased approximately $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to the amortization of in-place leases incurred related to the acquisition of the Funds in April 2022 being fully amortized by December 31, 2022, and the amortization of in-place leases related to the acquisition of two operating properties in 2021 being fully amortized by March 31, 2022. The decrease was also due to a higher amount of three to five year assets being fully depreciated in 2023 as compared to 2022 and the dispositions of an operating property in March of 2022, June of 2023, and December of 2023. The decrease was partially offset by higher depreciation expense in 2023 related to the acquisition of the Funds on April 1, 2022 and the completion of apartment homes in our development pipeline and completion of repositions during 2022 and 2023. Our deferred compensation plans incurred an expense of approximately $15.4 million in 2023 and recognized a benefit of approximately $19.6 million in 2022. The changes were related to the performance of the investments held in deferred compensation plans for participants and were directly offset by the income/(loss) related to these plans, as discussed in the Non-Property Income section above. 28 Other The $2.5 million loss on early retirement of debt during the year ended December 31, 2023 was due to the early repayment of our $185.2 million secured variable rate notes due in 2024 and 2026, and consisted of approximately $1.7 million of prepayment penalties and fees and approximately $0.8 million of unamortized fair value adjustments. The $225.4 million gain on sale for the year ended December 31, 2023 was primarily due to the disposition of two operating properties located in Costa Mesa, California. The $36.4 million gain on sale for the year ended December 31, 2022 was due to the disposition of one operating property located in Largo, Maryland during the first quarter of 2022. On April 1, 2022, we acquired the remaining 68.7% ownership interest in the Funds. Prior to the acquisition, we held a 31.3% ownership interest in the Funds, and accounted for these investments under the equity method. As a result of acquiring the remaining ownership interests, we consolidated the Funds and recorded a gain of approximately $474.1 million which represented the difference between the fair market value and the cost basis of our previously owned equity interests. Equity in income of joint ventures decreased approximately $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to 2022. The decrease was primarily due to our consolidating the Funds on April 1, 2022. Income tax expense increased approximately $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. The increase was primarily due to higher state income and franchise taxes. Funds from Operations ("FFO"), Core FFO, and Core Adjusted FFO ("Core AFFO") Management considers FFO, Core FFO, and Core AFFO to be appropriate supplementary measures of the financial performance of an equity REIT. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") currently defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding depreciation and amortization related to real estate, gains (or losses) from the sale of certain real estate assets (depreciable real estate), impairments of certain real estate assets (depreciable real estate), gains (or losses) from change in control, and adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures to reflect FFO on the same basis. Our calculation of diluted FFO also assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive securities, including certain non-controlling interests, which are convertible into common shares. We consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses on dispositions of depreciable real estate and depreciation, FFO can assist in the comparison of the operating performance of a company's real estate investments between periods or to different companies. Core FFO represents FFO as further adjusted for items not considered part of our core business operations. We consider Core FFO to be a helpful supplemental measure of operating performance as it excludes not only depreciation expense of real estate assets, but it also excludes certain items which, by nature, are not comparable period over period and therefore tends to obscure actual operating performance. Our definition of Core FFO may differ from other REITs, and there can be no assurance our basis for computing this measure is comparable to other REITs. Core AFFO is calculated utilizing Core FFO less recurring capitalized expenditures which are necessary to help preserve the value of and maintain the functionality at our communities. We also consider Core AFFO to be a useful supplemental measure because it is frequently used by analysts and investors to evaluate a REIT's operating performance between periods or to different companies. Our definition of recurring capital expenditures may differ from other REITs, and there can be no assurance our basis for computing this measure is comparable to other REITs. To facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated historical operating results, we believe FFO, Core FFO, and Core AFFO should be examined in conjunction with net income attributable to common shareholders as presented in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and data included elsewhere in this report. FFO, Core FFO, and Core AFFO are not defined by GAAP and should not be considered alternatives to net income attributable to common shareholders as an indication of our operating performance. Additionally, FFO, Core FFO, and Core AFFO as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to our calculation. Reconciliations of net income attributable to common shareholders to FFO, Core FFO, and Core AFFO for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 are as follows: 29 (1) For the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 activity relates to proceeds from a previously sold technology investment. Liquidity and Capital Resources Financial Condition and Sources of Liquidity We intend to maintain a strong balance sheet and preserve our financial flexibility, which we believe should enhance our ability to identify and capitalize on investment opportunities as they become available. We intend to maintain what management believes is a conservative capital structure by: • extending and sequencing the maturity dates of our debt where practicable; • managing interest rate exposure using what management believes to be prudent levels of fixed and floating rate debt; • maintaining what management believes to be conservative coverage ratios; and • using what management believes to be a prudent combination of debt and equity. Our interest expense coverage ratio, net of capitalized interest, was approximately 6.8 and 7.4 times for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. This ratio is a method for calculating the amount of operating cash flows available to cover interest expense and is calculated by dividing interest expense for the period into the sum of property revenues and expenses, non-property income, and other expenses after adding back depreciation, amortization, and interest expense. Approximately 89.8% and 83.9% of our properties were unencumbered at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our weighted average maturity of debt was approximately 5.6 years at December 31, 2023. We also intend to strengthen our capital and liquidity positions by continuing to focus on our core fundamentals, which currently are generating positive cash flows from operations, maintaining appropriate debt levels and leverage ratios, and controlling overhead costs. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations. Other sources may include one or more of the following: availability under our unsecured revolving credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic 30 shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, and other unsecured borrowings or secured mortgages. We believe our liquidity and financial condition are sufficient to meet all of our reasonably anticipated cash needs over the next 12 months including: • normal recurring operating expenses; • current debt service requirements, including debt maturities; • recurring capital expenditures; • reposition expenditures; • funding of property developments, redevelopments, and acquisitions; and • the minimum dividend payments required to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code. Factors which could increase or decrease our future liquidity include but are not limited to volatility in capital and credit markets, changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws, sources of financing, the minimum REIT dividend requirements, our ability to complete asset purchases, sales, or developments, the effect our debt level and changes in credit ratings could have on our cost of funds, and our ability to access capital markets. Cash Flows The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Net cash from operating activities was approximately $795.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to approximately $744.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase was primarily due to the increase in cash from non-same store property operations due to the acquisition of the Funds on April 1, 2022, and the growth attributable to our same store, other non-same store and development and lease-up communities. The increase was partially offset by higher real estate tax payments related to the acquisition of the Funds and higher interest payments on our secured and unsecured debt. See further discussions of our 2023 operations as compared to 2022 in Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2023 totaled approximately $127.1 million as compared to $1.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022. Cash outflows during 2023 primarily related to amounts paid for property development and capital improvements of approximately $410.9 million. These outflows were partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of two operating properties of approximately $290.7 million. Cash outflows during 2022 primarily related to the acquisition of the Funds for cash consideration of approximately $1.1 billion, and amounts paid for property development and capital improvements of approximately $449.4 million. These outflows were partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of one operating property for approximately $70.5 million in 2022. The decrease in property development and capital improvements for 2023, as compared to the same period in 2022, was primarily due to the acquisition of four parcels of land for development in 2022, partially offset by higher reposition expenditures in 2023 as compared to 2022. The property development and capital improvements during 2023 and 2022, included the following: Net cash used in financing activities totaled approximately $417.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to net cash from financing activities of approximately $109.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. Cash outflows during 2023 primarily related to $434.9 million used for distributions to common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders, the repayment of $250 million senior unsecured notes and $187.7 million secured variable rate notes, which includes prepayment penalties and fees, and the net repayment of $42.0 million of borrowings from our unsecured revolving credit facility. These outflows were partially offset by net proceeds of approximately $498.2 million from the issuance of $500.0 million senior unsecured notes in November 2023. Cash inflows during 2022 primarily related to net proceeds of approximately $516.8 million from the issuance of approximately 2.9 million common shares from our equity offering and approximately 0.2 million common shares from our ATM programs, as well as net proceeds of approximately $300.0 million of borrowings under our unsecured term loan, and net proceeds of $42.0 million of borrowings from our unsecured revolving credit facility. These cash inflows were partially offset by approximately $396.8 million to pay 31 distributions to common shareholders, and non-controlling interest holders and the repayment of $350.0 million senior unsecured notes in the fourth quarter of 2022. Financial Flexibility We have a $1.2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility which matures in August 2026, with two options to extend the facility at our election for two consecutive six-month periods and to expand the facility up to three times by up to an additional $500 million upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The interest rates on our unsecured revolving credit facility and  term loan are based upon, at our option, (a) the daily or the one-, three-, or six- months Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") plus, in each case, a spread based on our credit rating, or (b) a base rate equal to the higher of: (i) the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%, (ii) Bank of America, N.A.'s price rate, (iii) Term SOFR plus 1.0%, and (iv) 1.0%.  Advances under our unsecured revolving credit facility may be priced at the scheduled rates, or we may enter into bid rate loans with participating banks at rates below the scheduled rates. These bid rate loans have terms of 180 days or less and may not exceed the lesser of $600 million or the remaining amount available under our unsecured revolving credit facility. Our unsecured revolving credit facility and term loan are subject to customary financial covenants and limitations. We believe we are in compliance with all such financial covenants and limitations as of December 31, 2023 and through the date of this filing. Our unsecured revolving credit facility provides us with the ability to issue up to $50 million in letters of credit. While our issuance of letters of credit does not increase our borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility, it does reduce the amount available. At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $27.7 million, and approximately $1.2 billion available under our unsecured revolving credit facility. In May 2023, we created an at-the-market ("ATM") share offering program through which we can, but have no obligation to, sell common shares for an aggregate offering amount of up to $500.0 million (the "2023 ATM program"), in amounts and at times as we determine, into the existing trading market at current market prices as well as through negotiated transactions. Actual sales from time to time may depend on a variety of factors including, among others, market conditions, the trading price of our common shares, and determinations by management of the appropriate sources of funding for us. We intend to use the proceeds from any sale of our common shares under the 2023 ATM program for general corporate purposes, which may include reducing future borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, the repayment of other indebtedness, the redemption or other repurchase of outstanding debt or equity securities, funding for development activities, and financing for acquisitions. As of the date of this filing, we have not entered into any forward sales agreements and have not sold any shares under the 2023 ATM program. We currently have an automatic shelf registration statement which allows us to offer, from time to time, common shares, preferred shares, debt securities, or warrants. Our Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust provides we may issue up to 185 million shares of beneficial interest, consisting of 175 million common shares and 10 million preferred shares. At December 31, 2023, we had approximately 106.8 million common shares outstanding, net of treasury shares and shares held in our deferred compensation arrangements, and no preferred shares outstanding. We believe our ability to access the capital markets is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings by Fitch, Moody's, and Standard and Poor's, which were A- with stable outlook, A3 with stable outlook, and A- with stable outlook, respectively, as of December 31, 2023. We believe our ability to access the capital markets is also enhanced by our ability to borrow on a secured basis from various institutions including banks, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or life insurance companies. However, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings and may not be able to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis in the future. Future Cash Requirements and Contractual Obligations One of our principal long-term liquidity requirements includes the repayment of maturing debt, including any future borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2023, we had outstanding debt of approximately $3.7 billion. In January 2024, we issued $400.0 million of 4.90% senior unsecured notes due January 15, 2034. We utilized a portion of the net proceeds from these notes to repay the outstanding balance on our $300 million, 6.21% unsecured term loan due in August 2024 with a one year extension option to August 2025. In January 2024, we also repaid the $250.0 million principal balance related to the 4.36% senior unsecured notes payable, which matured on January 15, 2024.  We believe the remaining scheduled payments of debt over the next 12 months are manageable at approximately $290.0 million, which excludes the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs as well as the $550 million of debt we repaid in January 2024, as discussed above.  See in the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of scheduled maturities beyond 2024. Interest payments related to the debt discussed above and as further discussed in will be approximately $123.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 and for the years ending 2025 through 2028 will be approximately $115.2 million, $110.6 million, $86.0 million, and $82.5 million, respectively, and approximately $346.5 million in the aggregate thereafter. We estimate the additional cost to complete the construction of the four projects to be approximately $137.6 million. Of this amount, we expect to incur costs between approximately $120 million and $130 million during 2024 and to incur the 32 remaining costs during 2025. Additionally, we expect to incur costs between approximately $40 million and $60 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $90 million and $94 million of repositions, redevelopment, repurposes, and revenue enhancing expenditures and between approximately $101 million and $105 million of additional recurring capital expenditures during 2024. We anticipate meeting our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements through a combination of one or more of the following: cash flows generated from operations, draws on our unsecured revolving credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, other unsecured borrowings, or secured mortgages. We continue to evaluate our operating properties and land development portfolio and plan to continue our practice of selective dispositions as market conditions warrant and opportunities arise. As a REIT, we are subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute current dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our annual taxable income. In order to reduce the amount of income taxes, our general policy is to distribute at least 100% of our taxable income. In December 2023, we announced our Board of Trust Managers had declared a quarterly dividend of $1.00 per common share to our common shareholders of record as of December 15, 2023. This dividend was subsequently paid on January 17, 2024, and we paid equivalent amounts per unit to holders of common operating partnership units. When aggregated with previous 2023 dividends, this distribution to common shareholders and holders of the common operating partnership units equates to an annual dividend rate of $4.00 per share or unit for the year ended December 31, 2023. In the first quarter of 2024, the Company's Board of Trust Managers declared a first quarter dividend of $1.03 per common share to our common shareholders of record as of March 29, 2024. Future dividend payments are paid at the discretion of the Board of Trust Managers and depend on cash flows generated from operations, the Company's financial condition, and capital requirements, distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors, including the Company's past performance, and future prospects, which may be deemed relevant by our Board of Trust Managers. Assuming similar dividend distributions for the remainder of 2024, our annualized dividend rate for 2024 would be $4.12. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. These estimates are based on historical experience and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies. For a discussion of all of our significant accounting policies, see to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Valuation of Assets . Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment may exist if estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with long-lived assets are not sufficient to recover the carrying value of such assets. We consider projected future undiscounted cash flows, trends, strategic decisions regarding future development plans, and other factors in our assessment of whether impairment indicators exist. While we believe our estimates of future cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding a number of factors, including market rents, economic conditions, and occupancies, could significantly affect these estimates. When impairment exists, the long-lived asset is adjusted to its fair value. In estimating fair value, management uses appraisals, management estimates, and discounted cash flow calculations which utilize inputs from a marketplace participant’s perspective. In addition, we evaluate our equity investments in joint ventures, if any, and if we believe there is an other than temporary decline in market value of our investment below our carrying value, we will record an impairment charge. We did not record any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, or 2021. The value of our properties under development depends on market conditions, including estimates of the project start date, projected construction costs, as well as estimates of demand for multifamily communities. We have reviewed market trends and other marketplace information and have incorporated this information as well as our current outlook into the assumptions we use in our impairment analyses. Due to the judgment and assumptions applied in the impairment analyses, it is possible actual results could differ substantially from those estimated. We believe the carrying value of our operating real estate assets, properties under development, and land is currently recoverable. However, if market conditions deteriorate or if changes in our development strategy significantly affect any key assumptions used in our fair value estimates, we may need to take material charges in future periods for impairments related to existing assets. Any such material non-cash charges could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 33