********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Associated with Capital Markets, Credit Markets, and Real Estate Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us. The capital and credit markets are subject to volatility and disruption. We therefore may not be able to obtain new debt financing or refinance our existing debt on favorable terms or at all, which would adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to make distributions to shareholders, acquire assets and continue our development activities. Other weakened economic conditions, including job losses, high unemployment levels, stock market volatility, and uncertainty about the future, could adversely affect rental rates and occupancy levels. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions may have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and operating results. Additional key economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: • risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, as discussed below; • local conditions, such as an oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area; • declines in the financial condition of our residents, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some residents; 3 • declines in market rental rates; • low mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable; • government or builder incentives which enable home buyers to put little or no money down, making alternative housing options more attractive; • regional economic downturns, including, but not limited to, business layoffs, downsizing and increased unemployment, which may impact one or more of our geographical markets; and • increased operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to our residents. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents. Our apartment leases are generally for a term of fourteen months or less. As these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income. There are numerous housing alternatives which compete with our properties in attracting residents. Our properties compete directly with other multifamily properties, condominiums, single-family homes, third-party providers of short-term rentals and serviced apartments, which are available for rent or purchase in the markets in which our properties are located. This competitive environment could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our present properties or any newly developed or acquired property, as well as on the rents realized. We face risks associated with land holdings and related activities. We hold land for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning, and developing land increase as demand for apartments, or rental rates, decrease. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land may fluctuate significantly. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold certain land, and may in the future acquire additional land, in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully recover or at a cost which may preclude us from developing a profitable multifamily community. If there are subsequent changes in the fair market value of our land holdings which is less than the carrying basis of our land holdings reflected in our financial statements plus estimated costs to sell, we may be required to take future impairment charges which would reduce our net income. Risks Associated with Our Operations The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread and impact have and continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. In December 2019, COVID-19 was first reported in Wuhan, China, and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted financial markets and international trade, and resulted in increased unemployment levels, all of which negatively impacted the multifamily industry and the Company’s business. The outbreak has led governments and other authorities around the world, including federal, state and local authorities in the United States, to impose measures intended to control its spread, including restrictions on freedom of movement and business operations such as travel bans, border closings, business closures, quarantines and shelter-in-place orders. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and measures to prevent its spread has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact our businesses in a number of ways, including our residents’ ability or willingness to pay rents and the demand for multifamily communities within the markets we operate. In some cases, we have and may continue to restructure residents’ rent obligations, which may be on terms not as favorable to us as those currently in place. In the event of resident nonpayment, default, or bankruptcy, we may incur costs in protecting our investment and re-leasing our property.  Additionally, local and national authorities may continue to expand and extend certain measures imposing restrictions on our ability to enforce contractual rental obligations upon our residents and tenants. The restrictions inhibiting our employees’ ability to meet with existing and potential residents has disrupted and could in the future further disrupt our ability to lease apartments which has adversely impacted and could continue to adversely impact our rental rate and occupancy levels. For the safety of our employees as a result of COVID-19, we have also directed most of our personnel to work remotely and we have generally restricted on-site staff to only those personnel who perform essential activities which must be completed on-site. Our increased reliance on personnel working remotely pose challenges for our employees and our IT systems and extended periods of remote work arrangements could strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk, including cybersecurity and IT systems management risks, any of which could adversely impact our business operations. 4 The COVID-19 pandemic has also caused, and is likely to continue to cause, severe economic, market and other disruptions worldwide. We cannot assure you conditions will not continue to deteriorate as a result of the pandemic. In addition, the deterioration of economic conditions as a result of the pandemic may ultimately further decrease occupancy levels and market rents across our portfolio as residents reduce or defer their spending. The situation surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve and the potential for a material adverse impact on our operational and financial performance increases the longer the virus impacts activities in the United States and globally. For this reason, we are not able at this time to estimate to any degree of certainty the effect COVID-19 may have on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows, all of which will depend on future developments, including the duration of the outbreak, business and workforce disruptions, and the effectiveness of actions taken to contain and treat the disease . Moreover, many of the other risk factors described within this Form 10-K may be more likely to impact us as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the responses to curb its spread. Development, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability. We intend to continue to develop, redevelop and construct multifamily apartment communities for our portfolio. In 2021, we expect to incur costs between approximately $220 million and $240 million related to the construction of seven consolidated projects. Additionally, during 2021, we expect to incur costs between approximately $65 million and $75 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $58 million and $62 million related to repositions and revenue enhancing expenditures of existing properties and between approximately $70 million and $74 million of additional recurring capital expenditures.  Our development, redevelopment and construction activities may also be exposed to a number of risks which may delay timely completion, increase our construction costs and/or decrease our profitability, including the following: • "shelter in place," "stay at home," or similar orders adopted by state and local authorities in response to COVID-19, which may require us to temporarily cease construction and have other adverse effects; • inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required permits and authorizations; • disruptions in the supply of materials or labor, increased materials and labor costs, problems with contractors or subcontractors, or other costs including those costs due to errors and omissions which occur in the design or construction process; • inability to obtain financing with favorable terms; • inability to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule; • forecasted occupancy and rental rates may differ from the actual results; and • the incurrence of costs related to the abandonment of development opportunities which we have pursued and subsequently deemed unfeasible. Our inability to successfully implement our development, redevelopment and construction strategy could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and pay distributions to shareholders. One of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is engaged in the business of providing general contracting services under construction contracts entered into between it and third parties (which may include our nonconsolidated affiliates). The terms of those construction contracts generally require this subsidiary to estimate the time and costs to complete a project to calculate the cost plus margin for the project fee, but not to exceed a maximum amount, and to assume the risk when these estimates may be greater than anticipated. As a result, profitability on those contracts is dependent on the ability to accurately predict such factors. The time and costs necessary to complete a project may be affected by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed above, many of which are beyond this subsidiary’s control. In addition, the terms of those contracts generally require this subsidiary to warrant its work for a period of time during which it may be required to repair, replace, or rebuild non-conforming work. Further, trailing liabilities, based on various legal theories such as claims of negligent construction, may result from such projects, and these trailing liabilities may go on for a number of years depending on the length of the statute of repose in the applicable jurisdictions. Investments through joint ventures and investment funds involve risks not present in investments in which we are the sole investor. We have invested and may continue to invest as a joint venture partner in joint ventures. These investments involve risks including, but not limited to, the possibility the other joint venture partner may have business goals which are inconsistent with ours, possess the ability to take or force action or withhold consent contrary to our requests, or become insolvent and require us 5 to assume and fulfill the joint venture’s financial obligations. We and our joint venture partners may each have the right to initiate a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire a joint venture partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have entered into such a transaction. Each joint venture agreement is individually negotiated, and our ability to operate, finance, or dispose of a community in our sole discretion may be limited to varying degrees depending on the terms of the applicable joint venture agreement. We account for three investment funds (collectively, the "Funds") utilizing the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2020, we had two discretionary investment funds, and in March 2015, we completed the formation of a third fund with an unaffiliated third party which has not owned any properties since its formation. The risks associated with our Funds, which we manage as the general partner and advisor, include, but are not limited to, the following: • one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner of the Funds and has unlimited liability for the third-party debts, obligations, and liabilities of the Funds pursuant to partnership law; • investors in the Funds (other than us) may remove our subsidiary as the general partner of the Funds with or without cause and the Funds’ advisory boards, by a majority vote of their members, may remove our subsidiary as the general partner of the Funds at any time for cause; • while we have broad discretion to manage the Funds and make investment decisions on behalf of the Funds, the investors or the Funds' advisory boards must approve certain matters, and as a result we may be unable to make certain investments or implement certain decisions on behalf of the Funds which we consider beneficial; • our ability to dispose of all or a portion of our investments in the Funds is subject to significant restrictions; and • we may be liable if the Funds fail to comply with various tax or other regulatory matters. Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected. We may acquire additional operating properties on a selective basis. Our acquisition activities are subject to a number of risks including, but not limited to, the following: • we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired properties into our existing operations; • our estimates of the costs, if any, of repositioning or redeveloping the acquired property may prove inaccurate; • the expected occupancy, rental rates and operating expenses may differ from the actual results; • we may not be able to obtain adequate financing; and • we may not be able to identify suitable candidates on terms acceptable to us and may not achieve expected returns or other benefits as a result of integration challenges, such as personnel and technology. Changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and property values . Certain states and local municipalities have recently adopted rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations, imposing restrictions on amounts of rent increases which may be charged.  There are a number of additional states and local municipalities in which we operate also considering or being urged by advocacy groups to consider imposing rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations.  Such laws and regulations could limit our ability to increase rents, charge certain fees, evict residents, or recover increases in our operating expenses and could make it more difficult to dispose of properties in certain circumstances. The terms of laws and regulations recently enacted, future laws and regulations which may be enacted, as well as any lawsuits against us arising from such issues, could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our operating properties. Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences. We may not continue to qualify as a REIT in the future and the Internal Revenue Service may challenge our qualification as a REIT for prior years. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year we may be subject to federal and state income taxes for such year. In addition, we may not be able to requalify as a REIT for the four subsequent taxable years and may be subject to federal and state income taxes in those years as well. This may also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital which may adversely affect the value of our common shares. We may face other tax liabilities in the future which may impact our cash flow. These potential tax liabilities may be calculated on our income or property values at either the corporate or individual property levels. Any additional tax expense incurred would decrease the cash available for cash distributions to our common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders. Additionally, in order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational 6 requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. Tax laws may continue to change at any time and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us. Tax laws remain under constant review by persons involved in the legislative process, at the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Treasury, and by various state and local tax authorities.  Future changes in tax laws including administrative interpretations, enacted tax rates, or new pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including making it more difficult or more costly for us to qualify as a REIT. A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business. We use technology in substantially all aspects of our business operations, including internet and cloud-based systems and applications. We also use mobile devices, social networking, outside vendors and other online activities to connect with our employees, suppliers and residents. Such uses and the on-going advancement in technology give rise to potential cybersecurity risks with increasing sophistication, including but not limited to, security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of confidential information. Our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and confidential information and intellectual property, including residents' and suppliers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us. Further, as we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and developments and to pursue new initiatives to improve our operations, we are also expanding our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. If we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with our operations, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks and may be liable for the consequential litigation and remediation costs. Additionally, the measures we have implemented to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents may not be effective and there can be no complete assurance of prevention or anticipation of such incidents. The theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive data, confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of residents, potential liability and competitive disadvantage, any of which could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our third-party service providers are primarily responsible for the security of their own information technology environments and in certain instances we rely significantly on third-party service providers to supply and store our sensitive data in a secure manner.  All of these third parties face potential risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours which could disrupt their businesses and therefore adversely impact us. While we provide guidance and specific requirements in some cases, we do not directly control any of these parties' information technology security operations, or the amount of investment they place in guarding against cybersecurity threats.  Accordingly, we are subject to any flaws in or breaches to their information technology systems or those which they operate for us which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness and Financing We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences. As of December 31, 2020, we had outstanding debt of approximately $3.2 billion. This indebtedness could have adverse consequences including but not limited to, the following: • our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions is increased; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in business and industry conditions is limited. Our unsecured credit facility and the indenture under which our unsecured debt was issued contain customary restrictions, requirements, and other limitations, as well as certain financial and operating covenants including maintenance of certain financial ratios. Maintaining compliance with these provisions could limit our financial flexibility. A default in these provisions, if uncured, could require us to repay the indebtedness before the scheduled maturity date which could adversely affect our liquidity and increase our financing costs. Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders. Substantially all of our income is derived from rental and other income from our multifamily communities. As a result, our performance depends in large part on our ability to collect rent from residents, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, the following: 7 • delay in resident lease commencements; • decline in occupancy; • failure of residents to make rental payments when due; • the attractiveness of our properties to residents and potential residents; • our ability to adequately manage and maintain our communities; • competition from other available apartments and housing alternatives; • changes in market rents; • increases in operating expenses; and • changes in governmental regulations such as eviction moratoriums, rent control, or stabilization laws regulating rental housing. Cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest with respect to debt financing. In order for us to continue to qualify as a REIT we must meet a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute annual dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our adjusted taxable income. This requirement limits the cash available to meet required principal payments on our debt. Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition. Our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the rental and occupancy rates of our multifamily properties, minimum dividend requirements to our equity holders, development, redevelopment and other capital expenditures, costs of operations, and potential acquisitions. If our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing earlier than anticipated. If we issue more debt, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt. We are subject to the risk our unsecured indebtedness will not be renewed, repaid, or refinanced when due or the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of the properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to pay amounts due on our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. Rising interest rates could both increase our borrowing costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders, and decrease our share price, if investors seek higher yields through other investments . We have an unsecured credit facility and an unsecured term loan bearing interest at variable rates on all amounts drawn. We may incur mortgage debt or other additional variable rate debt in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense, unless we make arrangements which hedge the risk of rising interest rates, and would increase the costs of refinancing existing debt and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates could adversely affect cash flow, net income, and cash available for payment of our debt obligations and distributions to shareholders. An environment of rising interest rates could also lead holders of our securities to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. One of the factors which may influence the price of our stock in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on alternative investments. Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets. Moody’s, Fitch, and Standard & Poor's, the major debt rating agencies, routinely evaluate our debt and have given us ratings of A3 with stable outlook, A- with stable outlook, and A- with stable outlook, respectively, on our senior unsecured debt as of December 31, 2020. These ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. Due to changes in market conditions, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings, which could adversely affect our cost of funds and related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets. 8 We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method in which LIBOR is determined. Our unsecured credit facility and unsecured term loan are indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR").  Many market participants anticipate that in the near future LIBOR will cease being a widely used benchmark interest rate and may cease being published altogether. To address the potential for LIBOR’s cessation, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY), in coordination with multiple other regulators and large industry participants, convened the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”). The ARRC has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as the preferred successor rate for LIBOR. We are closely monitoring the progress of the phase-out of LIBOR and incorporating relatively standardized fallback language into our LIBOR-indexed debt documents for transitioning to an alternative index (which is defined to be the index that becomes generally used by lenders and other market participants) and a spread adjustment mechanism to prevent lenders from receiving a lower rate upon transition. There is significant uncertainty with respect to how the phase-out will be implemented and what alternative index will be adopted, which will ultimately be determined by the market as a whole.  It therefore remains uncertain how such changes will be implemented and the effects such changes would have on us and the financial markets generally.  These changes may have a material adverse impact on the availability of financing and on our financing costs. Risks Associated with Our Shares Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders. For us to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must have 100 or more shareholders during the year and not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. As defined for federal income tax purposes, the term “individuals” includes a number of specified entities. To minimize the possibility of us failing to qualify as a REIT under this test, our declaration of trust includes restrictions on transfers of our shares and ownership limits. The ownership limits, as well as our ability to issue other classes of equity securities, may delay, defer, or prevent a change in control. These provisions may also deter tender offers for our common shares which may be attractive to you or limit your opportunity to receive a premium for your shares which might otherwise exist if a third party were attempting to effect a change in control transaction. The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared at the discretion of our Board of Trust Managers and will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors as the Board of Trust Managers may consider relevant. The Board of Trust Managers may modify the form, timing and amount of dividends from time to time. General Risk Factors Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties. We expect other real estate investors will compete with us to acquire additional operating properties. This competition could increase prices for the type of properties we would likely pursue and adversely affect our ability to acquire these properties or achieve the expected profitability of such properties upon acquisition. Litigation risks could affect our business. As an owner, manager and developer of multifamily properties, we may incur liability based on various conditions at our properties and the buildings thereon, and we also have become and in the future may become involved in legal proceedings, including consumer, employment, tort or commercial litigation, which if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not adequately covered by insurance, could result in liability which is material to our financial condition or results of operations. Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses. A certain number of our properties are located in areas which have experienced and may in the future experience catastrophic weather and other natural events from time to time, including fires, snow or ice storms, windstorms, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding or other severe weather, or other environmental events.  These adverse weather or natural events could cause substantial damages or losses to our properties which could exceed our insurance coverage.  In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could lose our capital invested in the affected property, anticipated future revenue from the property, and could also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property.  Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Our share price will fluctuate. The market price and trading volume of our common shares are subject to fluctuation due to general market conditions, the risks discussed in this report and other matters, including, but not limited to, the following: • operating results which vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • investor interest in our property portfolio; • the reputation and performance of REITs; • the attractiveness of REITs as compared to other investment vehicles; • the results of our financial condition and operations; • the perception of our growth and earnings potential; • minimum dividend requirements; • increases in market interest rates, which may lead purchasers of our common shares to demand a higher yield; and • changes in financial markets and national and regional economic and general market conditions.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes appearing elsewhere in this report. Historical results and trends which might appear in the consolidated financial statements should not be interpreted as being indicative of future operations. Discussion of our year-to-date comparisons between 2020 and 2019 is presented below. Year-to-date comparisons between 2019 and 2018 can be found in "Part II. Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. We consider portions of this report to be "forward-looking" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, both as amended, with respect to our expectations for future periods. Forward-looking statements do not discuss historical fact, but instead include statements related to expectations, projections, intentions, or other items relating to the future; forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results, or events. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance our expectations will be achieved. Any statements contained herein which are not statements of historical fact should be deemed forward-looking statements. Reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements as these statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors beyond our control and could differ materially from our actual results and performance. Factors which may cause our actual results or performance to differ materially from those contemplated by forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: • Volatility in capital and credit markets, or other unfavorable changes in economic conditions, either nationally or regionally in one or more of the markets in which we operate, could adversely impact us; • Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents; • Competition could limit our ability to lease apartments or increase or maintain rental income; • We face risks associated with land holdings and related activities; • The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and measures intended to prevent its spread and impact have and continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition; • Development, redevelopment and construction risks could impact our profitability; • Investments through joint ventures and investment funds involve risks not present in investments in which we are the sole investor; • Our acquisition strategy may not produce the cash flows expected; • Changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations could adversely affect our operations and property values; • Failure to qualify as a REIT could have adverse consequences; • Tax laws may continue to change at any time and any such legislative or other actions could have a negative effect on us; • A cybersecurity incident and other technology disruptions could negatively impact our business; • We have significant debt, which could have adverse consequences; • Insufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make required payments for debt obligations or pay distributions to shareholders; • Issuances of additional debt may adversely impact our financial condition; • We may be unable to renew, repay, or refinance our outstanding debt; • Rising interest rates could both increase our borrowing costs, thereby adversely affecting our cash flows and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders, and decrease our share price, if investors seek higher yields through other investments; • Failure to maintain our current credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, related margins, liquidity, and access to capital markets; 18 • We may be adversely affected by changes in LIBOR reporting practices or the method in which LIBOR is determined; • Share ownership limits and our ability to issue additional equity securities may prevent takeovers beneficial to shareholders; • The form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations; • Competition could adversely affect our ability to acquire properties; • Litigation risks could affect our business; • Damage from catastrophic weather and other natural events could result in losses; and • Our share price will fluctuate . These forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions as of the date of this report, and we assume no obligation to update or supplement forward-looking statements because of subsequent events. Executive Summary We are primarily engaged in the ownership, management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, and construction of multifamily apartment communities. Overall, we focus on investing in markets characterized by high-growth economic conditions, strong employment, and attractive quality of life which we believe leads to higher demand and retention of our apartments. As of December 31, 2020, we owned interests in, operated, or were developing 174 multifamily properties comprised of 59,104 apartment homes across the United States as detailed in the following Property Portfolio table. In addition, we own other land holdings which we may develop into multifamily apartment communities in the future. Impact of the Coronavirus Pandemic (COVID-19) on our Business COVID-19 has currently resulted in a widespread health crisis which has adversely affected international, national, and local economies and financial markets generally, and has had an unprecedented effect on many industries including the multifamily industry. The discussions below, including without limitation statements with respect to outlooks of future operating performance and liquidity, are subject to the future effects of COVID-19 and the responses to curb its spread, which continue to evolve. Accordingly, the full magnitude of the pandemic and its ultimate effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity for future years, is uncertain at this time. Additionally, our property revenues and expenses have been and will likely continue to be impacted by COVID-19. For the three months ended December 31, 2020, we collected approximately 98.6% of our same store scheduled rents and approximately 1.4% were delinquent. Our January collections are approximately 96.9% of our same store scheduled rents and approximately 3.1% are delinquent. Consolidated Results Net income attributable to common shareholders decreased approximately $95.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred a COVID-19 related impact of approximately $14.8 million comprised of $9.5 million related to the Resident Relief Funds which were established in April 2020. Of this amount, approximately $9.1 million was paid to residents at our wholly-owned communities and was recorded as a reduction to property revenues, and approximately $1.3 million of Resident Relief Funds paid to residents of the operating communities owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures, of which we recognized our ownership interest of $0.4 million in equity in income of joint ventures. Additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million of COVID-19 expenses at our operating properties, which included $2.8 million of bonuses paid to on-site employees who provided essential services during the pandemic and $1.7 million in other directly-related COVID-19 expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we also incurred approximately $0.8 million related to the Employee Relief Fund we established to help our employees impacted by COVID-19, which was recorded within general and administrative expenses. In addition to the COVID-19 related expenses discussed above, the decrease during the year ended December 31, 2020 was also primarily due to a decrease of $49.5 million related to gains from operating property dispositions in 2019, higher depreciation expense of approximately $30.9 million, and higher interest expense of approximately $10.8 million, as compared to the same period in 2019. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2020 was partially offset by the approximate $12.0 19 million loss on early retirement of debt in the fourth quarter of 2019 as compared to the $0.2 million loss recognized in the fourth quarter of 2020.  See further discussions of our 2020 operations as compared to 2019 in "Results of Operations." Property Operations Our results for the year ended December 31, 2020 reflect an increase in same store revenues of 1.1% as compared to 2019.  These increases were primarily due to higher average rental rates which we believe was primarily attributable to our focus on high-growth markets, favorable demographics, a manageable supply of new multifamily housing, and in part many individuals choosing to rent versus buy.  The increase during the year ended December 31, 2020 was partially offset by the impact of COVID-19. Challenges within the multifamily industry surfaced during 2020 due to COVID-19.  Factors adversely affecting demand for and rents received from our multifamily communities remained and continue to remain intense and pervasive across the United States.  Overall weak consumer confidence, high unemployment, fears of a prolonged recession, and government-imposed moratoriums on our ability to collect rents and/or evict non-paying tenants, among other factors, have also persisted through the date of this filing. Based on our belief these conditions may continue, we could have a decline in property revenues during fiscal year 2021 and beyond. Construction Activity At December 31, 2020, we had a total of seven projects under construction to be comprised of 2,254 apartment homes. Initial occupancies of these seven projects are currently scheduled to occur within the next 27 months.  We estimate the additional cost to complete the construction of the seven projects to be approximately $325.4 million.  The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to curb its spread may adversely affect, among other matters, the timely completion and final project costs of some or all of our projects under development if, for example, we are required to temporarily cease construction, experience delays in obtaining governmental permits and authorizations, or experience disruption in the supply of or in the costs of materials or labor. Acquisitions Land: During the year ended December 31, 2020, we acquired approximately 4.1 acres of land in Durham, North Carolina for approximately $27.6 million for the future development of approximately 354 apartment homes, and approximately 4.9 acres of land in Raleigh, North Carolina for approximately $18.2 million for the future development of approximately 355 apartment homes. Dispositions Land: During the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold approximately 4.7 acres of land adjacent to one of our operating properties in Raleigh, North Carolina for approximately $0.8 million and recognized a gain of $0.4 million. Other • In April 2020, we issued $750.0 million of 2.80%, senior unsecured notes due May 2030 at an effective annual interest rate of 2.91% under our then-existing shelf registration statement. • In May 2020, Camden's Chairman and CEO, and Executive Vice Chairman, each agreed to voluntarily reduce the amount of their respective annual bonus (cash or shares) which may be awarded in the future by $500,000. The aggregate $1.0 million compensation reduction served as a contribution to the Resident Relief Funds and to the Employee Relief Fund. • In June 2020, we created an at-the market ("ATM") share offering program through which we can, but have no obligation to, sell common shares and we may also enter into separate forward sale agreements with forward purchasers for an aggregate offering price of up to $362.7 million (the "2020 ATM program"). • In October 2020, we entered into a $40.0 million two-year unsecured floating rate term loan with an unrelated third party and used the net proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay our $100.0 million unsecured term loan which was scheduled to mature in 2022. 20 Future Outlook Subject to market conditions, we intend to continue to seek opportunities to develop new communities, and to redevelop, reposition and acquire existing communities.  We also intend to evaluate our operating property and land development portfolio and plan to continue our practice of selective dispositions as market conditions warrant and opportunities arise. We expect to maintain a strong balance sheet and preserve our financial flexibility by continuing to focus on our core fundamentals which currently are generating positive cash flows from operations, maintaining appropriate debt levels and leverage ratios, and controlling overhead costs. We intend to meet our near-term liquidity requirements through a combination of one or more of the following: cash and cash equivalents, cash flows generated from operations, draws on our unsecured credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, other unsecured borrowings, or secured mortgages. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $420.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, and $888.0 million available under our $900.0 million unsecured credit facility. As of the date of this filing, we had common shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $362.7 million remaining available for sale under our 2020 ATM program and do not have any debt maturing through the year ending 2021. Additionally, as of December 31, 2020 and through the date of this filing, 100% of our consolidated properties were unencumbered. We believe we are well-positioned with a strong balance sheet and sufficient liquidity to fund new development, redevelopment, and other capital funding requirements. We will, however, continue to assess and take further actions we believe are prudent to meet our objectives and capital requirements. Property Portfolio Our multifamily property portfolio is summarized as follows: 21 (1) Refer to Note 8, "Investments in Joint Ventures," in the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our joint venture investments. Stabilized Communities We generally consider a property stabilized once it reaches 90% occupancy. During the year ended December 31, 2020, stabilization was achieved at two consolidated operating properties as follows: Completed Construction in Lease-Up At December 31, 2020, we had two consolidated completed operating properties and one of our unconsolidated joint ventures had one completed operating property in lease-up as follows: 22 (1)    Excludes leasing costs, which are expensed as incurred. (2)    Property owned through an unconsolidated joint venture in which we own a 31.3% interest. Properties Under Development Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2020 included approximately $564.2 million related to properties under development and land. Of this amount, approximately $444.6 million related to our projects currently under construction. In addition, we had approximately $119.6 million primarily invested in land held for future development related to projects we currently expect to begin construction. Communities Under Construction. At December 31, 2020, we had seven consolidated properties in various stages of construction as follows: (1) The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to curb its spread may adversely affect, among other matters, the timely completion and final project costs of some or all of our projects under development if, for example, we are required to temporarily cease construction, experience delays in obtaining governmental permits and authorizations, or experience disruption in the supply of or increases in the costs of materials or labor. (2) Property in lease-up and was 26% leased at February 3, 2021. 23 Development Pipeline Communities . At December 31, 2020, we had the following consolidated communities undergoing development activities: (1) Represents our estimate of total costs we expect to incur on these projects.  However, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, results, or events.  Although we believe these expectations are based upon reasonable assumptions, future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates routinely require adjustment. Geographic Diversification At December 31, 2020 and 2019, our real estate assets by various markets, excluding depreciation and investments in joint ventures, were as follows: 24 Results of Operations Changes in revenues and expenses related to our operating properties from period to period are due primarily to the performance of stabilized properties in the portfolio, the lease-up of newly constructed properties, acquisitions, and dispositions. Where appropriate, comparisons of income and expense for communities included in continuing operations are made on a dollars-per-weighted average apartment home basis in order to adjust for such changes in the number of apartment homes owned during each period. Selected weighted averages for the years ended December 31 are as follows: (1) Average monthly property revenue per apartment home for the year ended December 31, 2020, includes approximately $9.1 million of Resident Relief Funds paid to residents at our wholly-owned communities who have experienced financial losses caused by COVID-19 and was recorded as a reduction to property revenues. (2) Annualized total property expenses per apartment home includes approximately $4.5 million of directly-related COVID-19 expenses incurred at our operating properties for the year ended December 31, 2020. Management considers property net operating income ("NOI") to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance to net income because it reflects the operating performance of our communities without an allocation of corporate level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. We define NOI as total property income less property operating and maintenance expenses less real estate taxes. NOI is further detailed in the Property-Level NOI table as seen below. NOI is not defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our operating performance, should not be considered an alternative to net cash from operating activities as a measure of liquidity, and should not be considered an indication of cash available to fund cash needs. Additionally, NOI as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to our calculation. Reconciliations of net income to NOI for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: 25 Property-Level NOI (1)(2) Property NOI, as reconciled above, is detailed further into the categories below for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019: * Not a meaningful percentage. (1) For 2020, same store communities are communities we owned and were stabilized since January 1, 2019, excluding communities under redevelopment and properties held for sale. Non-same store communities are stabilized communities not owned or stabilized since January 1, 2019, including communities under redevelopment and excluding properties held for sale. We define communities under redevelopment as communities with capital expenditures that improve a community's cash flow and competitive position through extensive unit, exterior building, common area, and amenity upgrades. Management believes same store information is useful as it allows both management and investors to determine financial results over a particular period for the same set of communities. Development and lease-up communities are non-stabilized communities we have developed since January 1, 2019, excluding properties held for sale. COVID-19 Related Impact relates to the Resident Relief Funds which were established for our residents experiencing financial losses caused by COVID-19 and includes the amount we paid to residents at our wholly-owned communities as an adjustment to property revenues. The COVID-19 Related Impact also includes direct related expenses incurred at our operating properties as a result of the pandemic. Dispositions/other includes those communities disposed of or held for sale which are not classified as discontinued operations, non-multifamily rental properties, expenses related to land holdings not under active development, and other miscellaneous revenues and expenses. Same Store Analysis Same store property NOI decreased approximately $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019. The decrease was due to an increase of approximately $12.3 million in same store property expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020, partially offset by an increase of approximately $9.9 million in same store property revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. The $12.3 million increase in same store property expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to higher real estate taxes of approximately $5.8 million as a result of increased property valuations at a number of our communities, higher property insurance expenses of approximately $2.2 million as a 26 result of higher premiums, higher salary expenses of approximately $1.9 million, higher utilities of approximately $1.6 million, and higher repair and maintenance costs of approximately $0.8 million. The $9.9 million increase in same store property revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to an increase of approximately $12.8 million in rental revenues primarily from a 1.6% increase in average rental rates of which approximately $6.2 million was recognized during the first quarter of 2020 primarily due to a 3.3% first quarter increase in average rental rates. The increase during the year ended December 31, 2020 was also due to an approximately $3.4 million increase in income from our bulk internet and other utility rebilling programs, and an approximate $3.1 million higher net reletting and other rental income. These increases for the year ended December 31, 2020 were partially offset by lower occupancy of approximately $3.5 million, higher bad debt expense of approximately $5.1 million due in part to COVID-19, and a decrease of approximately $0.8 million related to fee and other income due to waived late and other fees during COVID-19. Non-same Store and Development and Lease-up Analysis Property NOI from non-same store and development and lease-up communities increased approximately $14.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. The increases were comprised of increases from non-same store communities of approximately $15.2 million and partially offset by decreases from development and lease-up communities of approximately $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019. The increase in property revenues and expenses from our non-same store communities was primarily due to the acquisition of four operating properties during 2019, four operating properties reaching stabilization during 2019 and two operating properties reaching stabilization during the year ended December 31, 2020. The slight decrease in property NOI from our development and lease-up communities were primarily due to the timing of completion and partial lease-up of two development properties during the year ended December 31, 2020. The following table details the changes, described above, relating to non-same store and development and lease-up NOI: COVID-19 Related Impact Analysis The direct COVID-19 Related Impact was approximately $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 due to the Resident Relief Funds and the COVID-19 directly-related expenses incurred at our operating properties. In April 2020, we announced two Resident Relief Funds for our residents experiencing financial losses caused by COVID-19 and the Company paid approximately $9.1 million to approximately 7,100 residents of our wholly-owned communities which was recorded as a reduction to property revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we also incurred approximately $4.5 million of directly-related COVID-19 expenses at our operating properties, which included $2.8 million of bonuses paid to on-site employees who provided essential services during the pandemic and approximately $1.7 million of other directly-related COVID-19 expenses. 27 Dispositions/Other Property Analysis Dispositions/other property NOI decreased approximately $11.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the same period in 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower retail property NOI of approximately $6.0 million which was primarily due to an approximate $3.5 million non-cash retail straight-line rent receivable adjustment in the fourth quarter of 2020 as a result of our collectability assessment and determining it was no longer probable certain leasing revenue would be collected from retail tenants and an approximate $1.8 million increase in retail bad debt expense.  The decrease was also due to approximately $4.9 million of property NOI from the disposition of two consolidated operating properties in the fourth quarter of 2019. We had no operating property dispositions during the year ended December 31, 2020. Non-Property Income * Not a meaningful percentage Fee and asset management income from property management, asset management, construction, and development activities at our joint ventures and our third-party construction projects increased approximately $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. The increase for 2020 as compared to 2019 was primarily due to higher fees earned related to an increase in third-party construction activity, and increased construction and development activity for one property held by one of the Funds which completed construction in December 2020. Our deferred compensation plans recognized income of approximately $12.0 million and $21.7 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The changes were related to the performance of the investments held in deferred compensation plans for participants and were directly offset by the expense related to these plans, as discussed below. Other Expenses * Not a meaningful percentage Property management expenses, which primarily represent regional supervision and accounting costs related to property operations, decreased approximately $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily related to lower incentive compensation expense and travel related expenses in 2020 as compared to 2019.  The decrease was partially offset by higher salary and benefit costs.  Property management expenses were 2.3% and 2.5% of total property revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Fee and asset management expense from property management, asset management, construction, and development activities at our joint ventures and our third-party construction projects decreased approximately $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower salaries and discretionary spending incurred in managing our joint ventures and construction activities in 2020 as compared to 2019. 28 General and administrative expenses increased approximately $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. The increase was primarily due to higher salary and benefit costs, higher professional expenses, and higher information technology costs as compared to 2019.  The increase was partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense and lower travel related expenses. Excluding deferred compensation plans, general and administrative expenses were 5.1% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Interest expense increased approximately $10.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. The increase was primarily due to the issuance of $600 million, 3.67% senior unsecured notes in June 2019, the issuance of $300 million, 3.41% senior unsecured notes in October 2019, and the issuance of $750 million, 2.91% senior unsecured notes in April 2020. The increase was partially offset by the repayment of approximately $439.3 million of secured conventional mortgage debt with a weighted average interest rate of 5.2% in the first quarter of 2019, the redemption of our $250 million, 4.78% senior unsecured notes due 2021, and the prepayment of an approximate $45.3 million, 4.38% secured conventional mortgage note in October 2019. The increase was also partially offset by higher capitalized interest in 2020 resulting from higher average balances in our development pipeline and a decrease in interest expense recognized on our $100 million term loan, which was repaid in October 2020 and had lower weighted average interest rates in 2020 as compared to 2019.  The increase in 2020 was further offset by a decrease in interest expense recognized on our unsecured credit facility due to lower balances outstanding during 2020 as compared to 2019. Depreciation and amortization expense increased approximately $30.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of four operating properties in 2019, the completion of units in our development pipeline, the completion of repositions, and the partial completion of redevelopments during 2020 and 2019. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense related to the disposition of two operating properties in December 2019. Our deferred compensation plans incurred an expense of approximately $12.0 million and $21.7 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. These changes were related to the performance of the investments held in deferred compensation plans for participants and were directly offset by the income related to these plans, as discussed in the non-property income section above. Other The loss on early retirement of debt for the year ended December 31, 2020 related to the early retirement of our $100 million unsecured term loan which was scheduled to mature in 2022; this loss is primarily related to the applicable unamortized loan costs. The loss for the year ended December 31, 2019 related to the early redemption of our $250 million, 4.78% Senior Notes due 2021 and the prepayment of a $45.3 million, 4.38% secured conventional mortgage note due 2045. The gain on sale for the year ended December 31, 2020 was due to the sale of approximately 4.7 acres of land adjacent to one of our operating properties in Raleigh, North Carolina for approximately $0.8 million.  The gain on sale in 2019 was due to the sale of two operating properties located in Corpus Christi, Texas in the fourth quarter. Equity in income of joint ventures decreased approximately $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. The decrease in 2020 was primarily due to a decrease in earnings due to the recognition of a $6.2 million proportionate share of gain in 2019 related to the sale of one operating property by one of the Funds in the fourth quarter of 2019 and the approximate $1.3 million of Resident Relief Funds paid to residents of the operating communities owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures in 2020, which was recorded as a reduction to property revenues.  We recognized our ownership interest of the Resident Relief Funds of $0.4 million in equity in income of joint ventures. The decrease in earnings was partially offset by lower interest expense recognized by operating properties owned by the Funds due to lower weighted average interest rates on variable rate debt in 2020 as compared to 2019. Income tax expense increased approximately $0.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to 2019.  The increase was primarily due to an increase in state and local taxes and an increase in taxable income related to higher third-party construction activities conducted in a taxable REIT subsidiary. 29 Funds from Operations (“FFO”) and Adjusted FFO ("AFFO") Management considers FFO and AFFO to be appropriate supplementary measures of the financial performance of an equity REIT. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) currently defines FFO as net income (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains (or losses) associated with the sale of previously depreciated operating properties, real estate depreciation and amortization, impairments of depreciable assets, and adjustments for unconsolidated joint ventures to reflect FFO on the same basis. Our calculation of diluted FFO also assumes conversion of all potentially dilutive securities, including certain non-controlling interests, which are convertible into common shares. We consider FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses on dispositions of operating properties and depreciation, FFO can assist in the comparison of the operating performance of a company’s real estate investments between periods or to different companies. AFFO is calculated utilizing FFO less recurring capitalized expenditures which are necessary to help preserve the value of and maintain the functionality at our communities. We also consider AFFO to be a useful supplemental measure because it is frequently used by analysts and investors to evaluate a REIT's operating performance between periods or different companies. Our definition of recurring capital expenditures may differ from other REITs, and there can be no assurance our basis for computing this measure is comparable to other REITs. To facilitate a clear understanding of our consolidated historical operating results, we believe FFO and AFFO should be examined in conjunction with net income attributable to common shareholders as presented in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and data included elsewhere in this report. FFO and AFFO are not defined by GAAP and should not be considered alternatives to net income attributable to common shareholders as an indication of our operating performance. Additionally, FFO and AFFO as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to our calculation. Reconciliations of net income attributable to common shareholders to FFO and AFFO for the years ended December 31 are as follows: (1) Net income attributable to common shareholders includes an approximate $3.5 million non-cash adjustment to retail straight-line rent receivable and a $14.8 million COVID-19 Related Impact for the year ended December 31, 2020. The total COVID-19 Related Impact for the year ended December 31, 2020, was comprised of $9.5 million related to the Resident Relief Funds which were established in April 2020. Of this amount, approximately $9.1 million was paid to residents at our wholly-owned communities and was recorded as a reduction to property revenues, and approximately $1.3 million of Resident Relief Funds paid to residents of the operating communities owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures, of which we recognized our ownership interest of $0.4 million in equity in income of joint ventures. Additionally, we incurred approximately $4.5 million of COVID-19 expenses at our operating communities, which included $2.8 million of bonuses paid to on-site employees who provided essential services during the pandemic and $1.7 million in other directly-related COVID-19 expenses. We also incurred approximately $0.8 million related to the Employee Relief Fund we established to help our employees impacted by COVID-19. Net income attributable to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2019 included an approximate $12.0 million loss on early retirement of debt related to the redemption of our 4.78% Senior Notes due 2021 and the prepayment of a 4.38% secured conventional mortgage note due 2045. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources Financial Condition and Sources of Liquidity We intend to maintain a strong balance sheet and preserve our financial flexibility, which we believe should enhance our ability to identify and capitalize on investment opportunities as they become available. We intend to maintain what management believes is a conservative capital structure by: • extending and sequencing the maturity dates of our debt where practicable; • managing interest rate exposure using what management believes to be prudent levels of fixed and floating rate debt; • maintaining what management believes to be conservative coverage ratios; and • using what management believes to be a prudent combination of debt and equity. Our interest expense coverage ratio, net of capitalized interest, was approximately 6.5 and 7.3 times for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. This ratio is a method for calculating the amount of operating cash flows available to cover interest expense and is calculated by dividing interest expense for the period into the sum of property revenues and expenses, non-property income, and other expenses after adding back depreciation, amortization, and interest expense. All of our properties were unencumbered at both December 31, 2020 and 2019.  Our weighted average maturity of debt was approximately 8.4 years at December 31, 2020. We also intend to strengthen our capital and liquidity positions by continuing to focus on our core fundamentals, which currently are generating positive cash flows from operations, maintaining appropriate debt levels and leverage ratios, and controlling overhead costs. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents on hand and cash flow generated from operations. Other sources may include one or more of the following: availability under our unsecured credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our ATM programs, and other unsecured borrowings or secured mortgages. We believe our liquidity and financial condition are sufficient to meet all of our reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2021 including: • normal recurring operating expenses; • current debt service requirements, including debt maturities; • recurring capital expenditures; • reposition expenditures; • funding of property developments, redevelopments, acquisitions, and joint venture investments; and • the minimum dividend payments required to maintain our REIT qualification under the Code. Factors which could increase or decrease our future liquidity include but are not limited to volatility in capital and credit markets, changes in rent control or rent stabilization laws, sources of financing, the minimum REIT dividend requirements, our ability to complete asset purchases, sales, or developments, the effect our debt level and changes in credit ratings could have on our cost of funds, and our ability to access capital markets.  A variety of these factors, among others, could also be affected by COVID-19. Cash Flows The following is a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Net cash from operating activities was approximately $519.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to approximately $555.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to lower cash inflows from operating accounts due to the timing of payments to vendors, lower prepayment of rental income received from our residents, and higher interest payments on our unsecured debt in 2020 as compared to 2019.  The decrease was also due to the COVID-19 impact on our property revenues and property expenses.  See further discussions of our 2020 operations as compared to 2019 in "Results of Operations."  These decreases were partially offset by cash outflows related to the settlement of our forward interest rate swaps in 2019. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled approximately $429.6 million as compared to $792.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2019.  Cash outflows during 2020 primarily related to property development and capital improvements of approximately $427.2 million, and increases in non-real estate assets of $7.5 31 million. These outflows were partially offset by a net decrease in notes receivable of $1.4 million. Cash outflows during 2019 primarily related to property development and capital improvements of approximately $407.6 million, the acquisition of four operating properties for approximately $436.3 million, and increases in non-real estate assets of $17.2 million.  These outflows were partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of two operating properties of approximately $67.6 million and a net decrease in notes receivable of $1.4 million.  The increase in property development and capital improvements for 2020, as compared to the same period in 2019, was primarily due to the timing and completion of four consolidated operating properties in 2019 and 2020, and the acquisition of development properties. The property development and capital improvements during 2020 and 2019, included the following: Net cash from financing activities totaled approximately $307.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to approximately $220.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. Cash inflows during 2020 primarily related to net proceeds of approximately $782.8 million from the issuance of $750.0 million senior unsecured notes in April 2020 and a $40.0 million unsecured floating-rate term loan in October 2020.  These cash inflows were partially offset by approximately $333.4 million to pay distributions to common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders, the repayment of an unsecured floating-rate term loan of approximately $100.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2020, and net payment of $44.0 million of borrowings from our unsecured line of credit.  Cash inflows during 2019 primarily related to  net proceeds of approximately $890.0 million from the issuance of $600.0 million senior unsecured notes in June 2019 and $300.0 million senior unsecured notes in October 2019, as well as net proceeds of $353.2 million from the issuance of approximately 3.4 million common shares through an underwritten equity offering completed in February 2019 and approximately 0.2 million common shares through our 2017 ATM program. We also had net proceeds of $44.0 million of borrowings from our unsecured line of credit. These cash inflows were partially offset by the repayment of approximately $439.3 million of secured conventional mortgage debt in the first quarter of 2019, and the early redemption of our $250 million unsecured notes payable due 2021 and the prepayment of the approximate $45.3 million secured conventional mortgage note due 2045 and associated prepayment penalties in the fourth quarter of 2019. We also used approximately $317.3 million to pay distributions to common shareholders and non-controlling interest holders. Financial Flexibility We have a $900 million unsecured credit facility which matures in March 2023, with two options to further extend the facility at our election for two additional six-month periods and may be expanded three times by up to an additional $500 million upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. The interest rate on our unsecured credit facility is based upon the LIBOR plus a margin which is subject to change as our credit ratings change. Advances under our credit facility may be priced at the scheduled rates, or we may enter into bid rate loans with participating banks at rates below the scheduled rates. These bid rate loans have terms of 180 days or less and may not exceed the lesser of $450 million or the remaining amount available under our credit facility. Our credit facility is subject to customary financial covenants and limitations. We believe we are in compliance with all such financial covenants and limitations as of December 31, 2020 and through the date of this filing. Our credit facility provides us with the ability to issue up to $50.0 million in letters of credit. While our issuance of letters of credit does not increase our borrowings outstanding under our credit facility, it does reduce the amount available. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately no borrowings outstanding on our $900.0 million credit facility and we had outstanding letters of credit totaling approximately $12.0 million, leaving approximately $888.0 million available under our credit facility. We currently have an automatic shelf registration statement which allows us to offer common shares, preferred shares, debt securities, or warrants, and our Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust provides we may issue up to 185 million shares of beneficial interest, consisting of 175 million common shares and 10 million preferred shares.  At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 97.4 million common shares outstanding, net of treasury shares and shares held in our deferred compensation arrangements, and no preferred shares outstanding. 32 In June 2020, we created the 2020 ATM program through which we can, but have no obligation to, sell common shares and also enter into separate forward sale agreements with forward purchasers for an aggregate offering price of up to $362.7 million, in amounts and at times as we determine, into the existing trading market at current market prices as well as through negotiated transactions. Actual sales from time to time may depend on a variety of factors including, among others, market conditions, the trading price of our common shares, and determinations by management of the appropriate sources of funding for us. The proceeds from the sale of our common shares under the 2020 ATM program are intended to be used for general corporate purposes, which may include reducing future borrowings under our $900 million unsecured line of credit, the repayment of other indebtedness, the redemption or other repurchase of outstanding debt or equity securities, funding for development activities, and financing for acquisitions. There were no shares sold under the 2020 ATM program in the year ended December 31, 2020 and no shares have been sold through the date of this filing. As of the date of this filing, we had common shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $362.7 million remaining available for sale under the 2020 ATM program. We believe our ability to access capital markets is enhanced by our senior unsecured debt ratings by Moody’s, Fitch, and Standard and Poor's, which were A3 with stable outlook, A- with stable outlook, and A- with stable outlook, respectively, as of December 31, 2020. We believe our ability to access capital markets is also enhanced by our ability to borrow on a secured basis from various institutions including banks, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or life insurance companies. However, we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings and may not be able to borrow on a secured or unsecured basis in the future. Future Cash Requirements and Contractual Obligations One of our principal long-term liquidity requirements includes the repayment of maturing debt, including any future borrowings under our unsecured credit facility.  As of the date of this filing, we did not have any debt maturing through the year ending December 31, 2021. See Note 9, “Notes Payable,” in the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of scheduled maturities. We estimate the additional cost to complete the construction of the seven consolidated projects to be approximately $325.4 million. Of this amount, we expect to incur costs between approximately $220 million and $240 million during 2021 and to incur the remaining costs during 2022 through 2023. Additionally, we expect to incur costs between approximately $65 million and $75 million related to the start of new development activities, between approximately $58 million and $62 million of repositions and revenue enhancing expenditures and between approximately $70 million and $74 million of additional recurring capital expenditures.  The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to curb its spread may adversely affect, among other matters, the timely completion and final project costs of some or all of our projects under development if, for example, we are required to temporarily cease construction, experience delays in obtaining governmental permits and authorizations, or experience disruption in the supply of or increases in the costs of materials or labor. We anticipate meeting our near-term liquidity requirements through a combination of one or more of the following: cash and cash equivalents, cash flows generated from operations, draws on our unsecured credit facility, the use of debt and equity offerings under our automatic shelf registration statement, proceeds from property dispositions, equity issued from our 2020  ATM program, other unsecured borrowings, or secured mortgages. We continue to evaluate our operating properties and land development portfolio and plan to continue our practice of selective dispositions as market conditions warrant and opportunities arise. As a REIT, we are subject to a number of organizational and operational requirements, including a requirement to distribute current dividends to our shareholders equal to a minimum of 90% of our annual taxable income.  In order to reduce the amount of income taxes, our general policy is to distribute at least 100% of our taxable income. In December 2020, we announced our Board of Trust Managers had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.83 per common share to our common shareholders of record as of December 16, 2020. This dividend was subsequently paid on January 15, 2021 and we paid equivalent amounts per unit to holders of common operating partnership units.  When aggregated with previous 2020 dividends, this distribution to common shareholders and holders of the common operating partnership units equates to an annual dividend rate of $3.32 per share or unit for the year ended December 31, 2020. In the first quarter of 2021, the Company's Board of Trust Managers declared a first quarter dividend of $0.83 per common share to our common shareholders of record as of March 31, 2021. Future dividend payments are paid at the discretion of the Board of Trust Managers and depend on cash flows generated from operations, the Company's financial condition and capital requirements, distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and other factors which may be deemed relevant by our Board of Trust Managers.  Assuming similar dividend distributions for the remainder of 2021, our annualized dividend rate for 2021 would be $3.32. 33 The following table summarizes our known contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2020: (1) Includes all available extension options, amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, net of scheduled principal payments. (2) Includes contractual interest payments for our senior unsecured notes and all available extension options. The interest payments on our unsecured term loan with floating interest rates were calculated based on the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2020. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The joint ventures in which we have an interest have been funded in part with secured, third-party debt.  At December 31, 2020, our unconsolidated joint ventures had outstanding debt of approximately $509.1 million.  As of December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding guarantees related to the loans of our unconsolidated joint ventures. Inflation Our apartment leases are for an average term of approximately fourteen months. In an inflationary environment, we may realize increased rents at the commencement of new leases or upon the renewal of existing leases. We believe the short-term nature of our leases generally minimizes our risk from the adverse effects of inflation. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date, and the amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the reporting period. These estimates are based on historical experience and other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The following is a discussion of our critical accounting policies. For a discussion of all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements," to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Valuation of Assets . Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment may exist if estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with long-lived assets are not sufficient to recover the carrying value of such assets. We consider projected future undiscounted cash flows, trends, strategic decisions regarding future development plans, and other factors in our assessment of whether impairment indicators exist. While we believe our estimates of future cash flows are reasonable, different assumptions regarding a number of factors, including market rents, economic conditions, and occupancies, could significantly affect these estimates. When impairment exists, the long-lived asset is adjusted to its fair value. In estimating fair value, management uses appraisals, management estimates, and discounted cash flow calculations which utilize inputs from a marketplace participant’s perspective.  In addition, we evaluate our equity investments in joint ventures and if we believe there is an other than temporary decline in market value of our investment below our carrying value, we will record an impairment charge. The value of our properties under development depends on market conditions, including estimates of the project start date, projected construction costs, as well as estimates of demand for multifamily communities. We have reviewed market trends and other marketplace information and have incorporated this information as well as our current outlook into the assumptions we use in our impairment analyses. Due to the judgment and assumptions applied in the impairment analyses, it is possible actual results could differ substantially from those estimated. We believe the carrying value of our operating real estate assets, properties under development, and land is currently recoverable. However, if market conditions deteriorate or if changes in our development strategy significantly affect any key assumptions used in our fair value estimates, we may need to take material charges in future periods for impairments related to existing assets. Any such material non-cash charges could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 34 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of recent accounting pronouncements issued during the year ended December 31, 2020.