********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Set forth below, elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We note that factors set forth below, individually or in the aggregate, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties and the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future documents we file with the SEC. Risk Factor Summary As noted above, we are subject to a number of risks that if realized could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated herein. Some of the more significant risks and uncertainties we face include those summarized below. The summary below is not exhaustive and is qualified by reference to the full set of risk factors set forth in this "Risk Factors" 17 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. section. Please carefully consider all of the information in this Form 10-K, including the full set of risks set forth in this "Risk Factors" section, and in our other filings with the SEC before making an investment decision regarding Charles River. Business and Operational Risks • We bear financial risk for contracts that may be terminated or reduced in scope, underpriced, subject to cost overruns or delays. • Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions. • We have in the past experienced and in the future could experience unauthorized access into our information systems. • If we are not successful in executing our business strategy, including our failure in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may be adversely impacted. • Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates. • Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. • Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business. Industry Risk Factors • Several of our product and service offerings, including our non-human primate supply, are dependent on a limited source of supply that, when interrupted, adversely affects our business. • Demand volatility, risk of credit losses, or a reduction or delay in government funding of R&D may adversely affect our business. • Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, including potential healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide. • Contract development and manufacturing services create a risk of liability, including risk that our products will not gain market acceptance and risk of failure to provide quality and timely service to customers. • Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to incur additional costs. • The outsourcing trend in non-clinical stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could impair our growth. • The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. • New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research, which could reduce demand for some of our products and services. • We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products. • Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices could reduce profitability. Legal and Regulatory Risk Factors • Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs. • Failure to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws in various jurisdictions could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. • Failure to comply with U.S., state, local or international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. • Changes in U.S. and International Tax Law, results of tax audits, or material changes in our stock price could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate and financial results. • Non-clinical contract research services create a risk of liability. • The failure to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights and defend against assertions of third-parties to intellectual property rights could adversely affect us. 18 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. • Our by-laws designate the state courts located in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable and may discourage lawsuits with respect to certain claims. • We are involved in legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Labor and Employment Risk Factors • We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees, which would harm our business. • If we are unable to attract, hire or retain key team members or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our team members. Financial and Accounting Risk Factors • Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. • Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely impact future results of operations. General Risk Factors • Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. • Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. • Increasing focus on environmental, social and governance matters may impact our business, financial results or stock price. Risk Factors Business and Operational Risks We bear financial risk for contracts that may be terminated or reduced in scope, underpriced, subject to cost overruns or delays. Many of our agreements, including those which underlie our strategic relationships with some of our more significant clients, allow for termination or reduction in scope with little or no notice. In addition, we sell our products and services to our competitors, and similarly they sell products and services to us. For instance, we have historically entered into, and currently are party to, contracts with certain of our competitors to distribute specialty research models in locations where our competitors may not have distribution capabilities. Our counterparties (including our clients who are competitors) may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons including: the invocation of force majeure clauses, or the legal doctrines of impossibility or impracticability, or other similar legal doctrines; the products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; unexpected or undesired study results; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; a client’s decision to forego or terminate a particular study; our competitors’ establishment of alternative distribution channels; dissatisfaction with our performance under the agreement; the loss of funding for the particular research study; or general convenience/counterparty preference. If a counterparty terminates a contract with us, we are typically entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases, termination fees; however, in many cases we are not entitled to any termination fees in the event of a termination. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate delay, cancellation or conclusion of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business and, therefore, may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and, accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. Such underpricing or significant cost overruns could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions. In recent years, we have been updating and consolidating platforms and automating processes in many parts of our business with a variety of systems, including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses. The expansion and ongoing implementation of operational systems may occur at a future date based on value to the business. In general, the process of planning and preparing for these types of integrated, wide-scale implementations is extremely complex and we are required to address a number of challenges, including information security assessment and remediation, regulatory requirements, data conversion, associated regulatory compliance, network and system cutover, user training, and integration with existing 19 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. processes or systems. As we build out IT infrastructure to support regulatory requirements for applications and data systems, we are doing so utilizing contemporary validation practices. As with all work conducted in our regulatory sites, these too are subject to government inspections. Incongruities in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including inconsistent practices, delayed report and/or data shipments, missed sales, animal management/welfare issues, issues that require re-doing certain studies, personally identifiable information and data privacy issues, billing errors and accounting errors. We have in the past experienced and in the future could experience unauthorized access into our information systems. We operate large and complex information systems that contain significant amounts of client data. As a routine element of our business, we collect, analyze and retain substantial amounts of data pertaining to the non-clinical studies we conduct for our clients. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such information systems to steal data or disrupt the systems or for financial gain. Like other companies, we have on occasion experienced, and will continue to experience, threats and incursions to our data and systems, including malicious software and viruses, phishing, business email compromise and social engineering attacks or other cyber-attacks. The number and complexity of these threats continue to increase over time. In March 2019, we detected evidence that an unauthorized third party, who we believe was well resourced and highly sophisticated, accessed certain of our information systems and copied data. We worked with a leading cyber security firm to assist in our investigation and coordinated with law enforcement authorities. Our investigation indicated that the affected information included client information. By the end of 2019, we disclosed that we had completed our remediation of the identified incident. As of the date of this filing, to our knowledge, we have not experienced an information security breach or material cybersecurity incident since that event. While we have implemented additional security safeguards since that event and continue to enhance existing safeguards, such efforts may not be successful, in which case we could suffer significant harm. Further, we are at risk of being targeted, and we have in the past been victim to, business email compromise fraud, which results in payments being made to illegitimate bank accounts. Although these instances have not resulted in our incurring material losses, if similar instances occur in the future, we may incur such losses. Our contracts with our clients typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from the studies we conduct. In the event the confidentiality of such information is compromised, whether by unauthorized access or other breaches, we could be exposed to significant harm, including termination of customer contracts, damage to our customer relationships, damage to our reputation and potential legal claims from customers, employees and other parties. In addition, we may face investigations by government regulators and agencies as a result of a breach. For information regarding our processes and practices related to information and cybersecurity, please see Section 1C of this report, “Cybersecurity”. If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire or partner with, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may be adversely impacted. During the last two decades, we have steadily expanded our business through numerous acquisitions and partnerships. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions. Acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include: • difficulties in achieving business and financial success (due to unplanned events such as the long-term economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and ongoing geopolitical conflicts, such as between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, and between Israel and Hamas); • difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products, information technology platforms, technologies or pre-existing relationships with our clients, distributors and suppliers; • challenges with developing and operating new businesses, including those that are materially different from our existing businesses, which may require the development or acquisition of new internal capabilities and expertise; • potential losses resulting from operational weaknesses or undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnifications we may obtain from sellers or any insurance we may acquire in connection with transactions; • loss of key employees; • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 20 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. • a more expansive regulatory environment; • dilution to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilution to the percentage of ownership of our existing shareholders; • differences in foreign business practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; • new technologies and products may be developed that cause businesses or assets we acquire to become less valuable; and • disagreements or disputes with prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service or product that may result in legal settlements, litigation expenses and diversion of our management’s attention. If an acquired business, technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some of the same risks exist when we decide to sell a business, site, product line or service offering or decide to close a site. We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our business to determine whether any divestitures are appropriate. Such divestitures could involve additional risks, other than those listed above, including: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel, the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestitures, and write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets and which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms, and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business, site or product line or service offering and, as a result, we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the divestitures. Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability. Our strategy is to deliver a comprehensive and integrated portfolio of drug discovery and non-clinical development products, services and solutions to support our clients’ discovery and early-stage drug research, process development, scale up and manufacturing efforts, and enable them to bring new and improved therapies to market faster and more cost effectively. Separately, through our various Manufacturing segment businesses, we aim to be the premier provider of products and services that ensure our clients produce and release their products safely. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy, this could negatively impact our future results of operations and market capitalization. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To address this issue, we typically pursue a number of strategies designed to improve our internal growth, including strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets through organic growth and strategic acquisitions and expanding our service offerings, including our expansion into the CDMO business. We may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. Furthermore, our strategy assumes a certain degree of capital and capacity growth development. Factors such as insufficient capital, inflation, supply chain interruptions, inadequate forecasting, increases in construction material costs, or labor shortages could interfere with the successful execution of our strategy and our ability to timely build infrastructure to satisfy capacity needs and support business growth. For additional discussion of our business strategy, please see the section above entitled “Our Strategy.” Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A significant part of our revenue is derived from operations outside the U.S. We expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could materially adversely impact our results. Foreign currencies we receive for sales and in which we record expenses outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar, resulting in a reduction in the amount of revenue and cash flow (and an increase in the amount of expenses) that we recognize and causing fluctuations in reported financial results. We also carry foreign currency exposure associated with differences between where we conduct business. For example, certain contracts are frequently denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results from the currency translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, as well as from the exposure associated with transactions of our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency other than the respective subsidiary’s functional currency. While our financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the 21 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. local currency as the functional currency. During consolidation, these results are translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries report could cause significant fluctuations in our reported results. Moreover, as exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results may differ materially from our expectations. Adjustments resulting from financial statement translations are included as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Other risks associated with our international business include: • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; • potentially negative consequences from changes in U.S. and/or foreign laws, including changes that may bar us from engaging in business transactions with certain clients, and changes in tax laws, or interpretations and enforcement thereof, notably tax regulations issued and to-be-issued with respect to the potential adoption of global minimum taxation requirements and potential changes to existing tax law by the current U.S. Presidential administration and Congress; • ongoing uncertainties as a result of instability or changes in geopolitical conditions, including terrorist acts or military or political conflicts, such as those caused by the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine or Israel and Hamas (the potential escalation or geographic expansion of which could heighten other risks identified in this report); • exchange controls, adverse tax consequences and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the U.S.; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of work stoppages and/or strikes, as well as violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • unfavorable labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions; • longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; • potentially reduced protection of our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries; and • compliance with export controls, import requirements and other trade regulations, including those relating to certain products of which there is limited supply. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, as mentioned above, we are subject to compliance with the FCPA, which prohibits companies and their third-party intermediaries from offering or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Likewise, we are also subject to other international anti-bribery laws such as the UK Bribery Act which prohibit companies and their third-party intermediaries from offering or making improper payments to commercial parties. While our employees and third-party intermediaries are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. We depend on our customers continued demand and solvency at our facilities for the continued operation of our business. While we maintain disaster recovery plans, they might not adequately protect us. Despite any precautions we take for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attack, a pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of a disease, hurricanes, tornadoes, fire, floods and ice and snow storms, could result in damage to and closure of our or our customers’ facilities or the infrastructure on which such facilities rely. Such disruptions could include significant delays in the shipments of our products, reduce our capacity to provide services, adversely impact unique manufacturing capabilities, result in our customers’ inability to pay for our products or services and, ultimately, result in the loss of revenue and clients. Although we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our customers could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business. The products and services that we provide our clients are essential to the drug discovery, development and manufacturing processes, and a significant amount are mandated by law. Notwithstanding, certain special interest groups categorically object 22 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities involving animal  models have been the subject of adverse attention, including shareholder proposals and attempts to disrupt carriers from transporting large research models and actions aimed at preventing expansion of operations . This has included periodic demonstrations near facilities operated by us and at our annual meetings, as well as shareholder proposals we received for some of our past Annual Meetings of Shareholders. Furthermore, the habitat of certain animals used for research purposes may be located in or near certain environmentally protected areas or conservation areas. Activities conducted by us or any of our agents within these areas may be legally challenged and result in similar negative attention and action from environmental protection activists, including advocacy for the expansion of environmental restrictions applicable to such areas. Any negative attention, threats, acts of vandalism or legal action directed against our animal research or procurement activities, or our third-party service providers, such as our airline carriers or suppliers, or that restrict our or their ability to access protected or conservation areas, could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. Industry Risk Factors Several of our product and service offerings, including our non-human primate supply, are dependent on a limited source of supply that, when interrupted, adversely affects our business. We depend on a limited international source of supply for certain products, such as large research models, including non-human primates. Disruptions to their continued supply from time to time arise from colony health problems (including as a result of the spread of diseases), export or import laws/restrictions or embargoes, tariffs, inflation, international trade regulations, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, increased competition among suppliers for models, disruptions to the air travel system, activist campaigns, commercial disputes, supplier insolvency, geopolitical disputes, or other ordinary course or unanticipated events. Any disruption of supply could materially harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial terms. As with other industry participants, certain of our activities rely on a sufficient supply of large research models, which has seen increasing demand as compared to supply in recent years due to a variety of factors. First, the surge of research relating to COVID-19 increased short-term demand. Second, China previously supplied a significant portion of certain critical large research models, which have been subject to geographic export restrictions applicable to many animal species since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. And third, in concert with legal matters affecting the Cambodian supply of non-human primates, the non-human primate supply chain globally has recently experienced constriction. More broadly, in November 2022 the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) announced that a Cambodia supplier of non-human primates and two Cambodian officials had been criminally charged in connection with illegally importing non-human primates into the United States. While the Company was not named or referenced in the November 2022 proceedings, the Company shortly thereafter announced that Cambodia was the primary country of origin for non-human primates imports to Charles River, and that it had begun to operate under the expectation that for some time period supply of Cambodia-sourced non-human primates (which according to CDC statistics, account for approximately 60% of supply to the United States) would be difficult to obtain in the United States. Subsequent to the Company’s announcement, USFWS denied clearance to certain shipments of non-human primates the Company had received from Cambodia. And as noted in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in February 2023 the Company was informed by the DOJ that in conjunction with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), they had commenced a grand jury investigation into the Company’s conduct regarding several shipments of non-human primates, which is occurring in parallel to a civil investigation being undertaken by the DOJ and USFWS. In connection with the civil investigation, the Company has voluntarily suspended planned future shipments of Cambodia non-human primates into the United States until such time that the Company and USFWS can agree upon and implement additional procedures to reasonably ensure that non-human primates imported to the United States from Cambodia are purpose-bred. Accordingly, the Company believes that for some undetermined period of time it will not be able to import Cambodia-sourced non-human primates into the United States, and overall supply of non-human primates from Cambodia on a world-wide basis is more limited than previously. While we continue to take steps to find alternative supply channels (and other global sources) and lock in supply (both for non-human primates and with respect to other limited supply products) with preferred sources through multi-year and/or minimum commitment contracts as well as through acquisitions of suppliers, there are limited sources and such mitigating efforts may not prove successful at ensuring a steady and timely supply or may require (and in the past have required) us to pay significantly higher prices for such products during periods of global shortage or restrictions on the importation or the transportation of models products. Limited global supply or regional restrictions on transportation for certain products may require us to source products from non-preferred vendors, which may not be successful. In addition, reductions in global air transportation routes may result in sourcing alternative transportation at an increased cost. Finally, we may be unable to obtain supply due to governmental restrictions or limitations, including (as noted above) non-human primates. An inability to obtain a sufficient and timely supply of critical products could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. 23 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Portions of our Cell Solutions business depends on the availability of appropriate donors. Regulations intended to control infectious disease or requirements in cell therapy manufacturing processes could also result in a decreased pool of potential donors or integrity of inventory. Due to any pandemic, epidemic or outbreak in one or more regions in which our Cell Solutions business operates, the portion of the donor pool that typically donates may be unable, or unwilling to donate, thereby significantly reducing the availability of research products upon which we rely. In addition, healthcare concerns among the public may result in a decline in donations. If donor participation declines, we may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to maintain profitability of the Cell Solutions business. Our CDMO services establish us as a premier scientific partner for cell and gene therapy development, testing, and manufacturing; enable us to provide clients with an integrated solution from basic research and discovery through cGMP production; enable us to drive efficiency and accelerate clients’ speed-to-market by integrating manufacturing and the required testing; and enable our clients to seamlessly conduct analytical testing, process development, and manufacturing for advanced modalities with the same scientific partner. Furthermore, our CDMO operations require various raw materials supplied primarily by third parties. We or our customers specify the raw materials and other items required to manufacture the applicable product and, in some cases, the customers specify the suppliers from whom we must purchase these raw materials. In certain instances, the raw materials and other items may only be supplied by a limited number of suppliers or in limited quantities. If third-party suppliers do not supply raw materials or other items on a timely basis, it may cause a manufacturing run to be delayed or canceled which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, in general, third-party suppliers may fail to provide us with raw materials and other items that meet the qualifications and specifications required by us or our customers. If third-party suppliers are not able to provide us with raw materials that meet our or our customers’ specifications on a timely basis, we may be unable to manufacture the product for our clients or it could prevent us from delivering products to our customers within required time frames. Any such delay in delivering products to our clients may create liability for us to our customers for breach of contract or cause us to experience order cancellations and loss of customers. In the event that we manufacture products with components or raw materials that do not meet our qualifications and specifications or those of our customers or governmental or regulatory authorities, we may become subject to product liability claims caused by defective raw materials or components from a third-party supplier or from a customer. Demand volatility and risk of credit losses from clients may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in drug R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories or private foundations. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries also affect their R&D budgets and, consequentially, our business as well. Our clients include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on molecules in the non-clinical phases of R&D (and in particular discovery and safety assessment) and to outsource the products and services we provide. Furthermore, our clients (particularly larger biopharmaceutical companies) continue to search for ways to maximize the return on their investments with a focus on lowering R&D costs per drug candidate. Fluctuations in the expenditure amounts in each phase of the R&D budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. R&D budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities (including available resources of our biotechnology clients, particularly those that are cash-negative, who may be highly focused on rationing their liquid assets in a challenging funding environment), general economic conditions, institutional budgetary policies and the impact of government regulations, including potential drug pricing legislation. Available funding for biotechnology clients in particular may be affected by the capital markets, investment objectives of venture capital investors and priorities of biopharmaceutical industry sponsors. Additionally, our business is exposed to the risk of credit losses, which arises from our extension of credit to clients. The collectability of accounts receivable may be adversely affected by various factors, including economic downturns, changes in clients’ financial conditions, and industry-specific challenges. A deterioration in the creditworthiness of our clients could result in the need to establish or increase our allowance for credit losses. We regularly assess the creditworthiness of our clients, establish credit limits, and monitor payment patterns. However, our ability to manage credit risk and maintain an adequate allowance for credit losses may be impacted by factors beyond our control, such as unforeseen economic conditions or significant shifts in client payment behavior. Additionally, changes in global or regional economic conditions may affect the overall credit environment and impact our customers' ability to fulfill their payment obligations. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been influencing R&D budgets at our clients, please see the sections entitled “Our Strategy” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 24 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Additionally, we have business that depends on our supply of large research models to clients. Sudden or unexpected changes in demand, market conditions, or the regulatory environment for these models could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Increasing demand could harm relationships with customers if we are unable to alter production capacity, or purchase products from other suppliers, to fill orders adequately. Decreased demand could result in inventory surpluses, which could also significantly impact our results and operations. In particular, if the price of non-human primates increases significantly, or if we are unable to transport the non-human primates in our possession to our clients because of governmental restrictions or limitations, our business may be materially adversely affected. In addition, overall supply constraints with respect to large research models has led to an extremely dynamic pricing environment for non-human primates, which has, and could continue to, make it difficult to predict results, lead to reduced volumes, and require us to adjust operations. Furthermore, our Cell Solutions operations are structured to produce research materials, such as blood products based on clients’ existing demand, and perceived potential changes in demand, for these products. Sudden or unexpected changes in demand for these products could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Increasing demand could harm relationships with clients if we are unable to alter production capacity, or purchase products from other suppliers, to fill orders adequately. This could result in a decrease in overall revenue and profits. Lack of access to sufficient capital, or lack of adequate time to properly (or the failure to adequately) respond to changes in demand, could result in declining revenue and profits, as clients transfer to other suppliers. We also operate businesses which depend upon the regulatory approval of the products they manufactures for their contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) clients. As such, if these clients experience a delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of their product candidates or fail to maintain regulatory approval of their products that we develop or manufacture, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve of our facilities for the manufacture of a client product, observes significant deficiencies or violations at its facilities or withdraws such approval in the future, our clients may choose to identify alternative manufacturing facilities and/or relationships, which could significantly impact our CDMO capacity and capabilities and results of operations therefrom. A reduction or delay in government funding of R&D may adversely affect our business. A portion of revenue, predominantly in our RMS segment, is derived from clients at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies, which can be difficult to forecast. We also sell directly to the NIH and these other agencies. Government funding of R&D is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our revenue may be adversely affected if our clients delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals, included reduced allocations to government agencies that fund R&D activities. Government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund R&D activities, or NIH funding may not be directed towards projects and studies that require the use of our products and services, both of which could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, including potential healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world strictly regulate the drug development process. Our business involves helping our customers navigate these regulatory processes. Accordingly, many regulations, and often new regulations, are expected to result in higher regulatory standards and often additional revenues for companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of streamlined or expedited drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. For example, in December 2022, the FDA Modernization Act 2.0 was passed, which requires the FDA to develop and implement a strategy to reduce the use of animals in testing while maintaining the safety and effectiveness of medical products and to explore the use of non-animal alternatives to animal testing. Eliminating the use of animals in research may have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. While there have been significant advancements in the development of alternative methods, the complete elimination of animals in research will be a gradual process that may take many years to achieve. While we are committed to working with the industry to support development and to provide the best translational models to supplement or replace traditional models as part of our 4Rs initiative, the use of animals in research is highly regulated and proposed changes to current regulations will need to be carefully evaluated to ensure that they do not compromise the safety and efficacy of new drugs and medical treatments. Although we believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable national, regional and local laws, as well as other accepted guidance used by oversight bodies (including the USDA, the standards set by the International Air 25 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Transport Association, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, USFWS, The Centers for Disease Control, the Department of Transportation, the Department of State, the office of Laboratory Animal Welfare of NIH, the Drug Enforcement Agency, as well as numerous other oversight agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate), failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions. For additional discussion of the factors specifically affecting our non-human primates including related oversight trade compliance agencies, please see the sections entitled “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Industry Risk Factors - Several of our product and service offerings, including our non-human primate supply, are dependent on a limited source of supply that, when interrupted, adversely affects our business”, and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety assessment procedures that utilize research animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), certain segments of our business could be materially adversely affected. Implementation of healthcare reform legislation may have certain benefits, but also may contain costs that could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. Furthermore, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for pharmaceutical products, our clients may spend less or reduce their growth in spending on R&D. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level, or in laws and regulations in effect in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or have business relationships, may significantly impact our domestic and foreign businesses and/or those of our clients. Furthermore, modifications to international trade policy, public company reporting requirements, environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement may have a materially adverse impact on us, our suppliers or our clients. Our Biologics Solutions business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if the products we manufacture and/or test for our customers do not gain market acceptance. If the products we manufacture for our customers do not gain market acceptance or production volumes of key products that we manufacture for our customers decline, the financial condition and results of our operations may be adversely affected. For our CDMO services, we will depend on, and have no control over, market acceptance for the products that we will manufacture for our customers. Consumer demand for these products could be adversely affected by, among other things, delays in securing regulatory approvals, the emergence of competing or alternative products, including generic drugs, the emergence of new safety data for such products, the loss of patent and other intellectual property rights protection, reductions in private and government payment product subsidies or changing product marketing strategies. CDMO services are highly complex and failure to provide quality and timely services to our CDMO customers, could adversely impact our business. The CDMO services we offer can be highly complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements and the inherent complexity of the services provided. A failure of our quality control systems in our facilities could cause problems in connection with facility operations for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, viral contamination, failure to follow specific manufacturing instructions, protocols and standard operating procedures, problems with raw materials or environmental factors. Such issues could affect production of a single manufacturing run or manufacturing campaigns, requiring the destruction of products, or could halt manufacturing operations altogether. In addition, any failure to meet required quality standards may result in our failure to timely deliver products to our customers which, in turn, could damage our reputation for quality and service. Any such incident could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, reimbursement to customers for lost drug substances, damage to and possibly termination of customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating and remediating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other manufacturing runs. In addition, such issues could subject us to litigation, the cost of which could be significant. Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to incur additional costs. Both small and large animal research models must be free of certain infectious agents, such as certain viruses, parasites, and bacteria, because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise the quality of research results and/or could adversely impact human or animal health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production facilities and certain service operations could impact the quality of our contaminant-free research model as well as our animal services businesses, including GEMS, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales. There also exists a risk that contaminations from models that we produce may affect our client’s facilities, with similar impact to them for which we could be liable for damages. In some cases, we may produce or import animals carrying infectious agents capable of causing disease in humans; and in the case of such a contamination or undiagnosed infection, there could be a possible risk of human exposure and infection and liability for damages to infected persons. 26 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. When considering our large research models, while some of these models are owned by us and maintained at our facilities, others are reserved for us and maintained at sites operated by the original provider. Accordingly, risk of contamination may be outside of our control, and we depend on the practices and protocols of third parties to ensure a contamination-free environment. A contamination may require extended CDC or CFIA quarantine with subsequent reduced sales as a result of lost client orders, as well as the potential for complete inventory loss and disinfection of the affected quarantine rooms. Furthermore, while we often negotiate for contractual risk indemnification, the third party may refuse to fulfill its indemnification obligation or may be unable to as a result of insolvency or other impediments. Contaminations are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. If they occur, contaminations typically require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting and restarting production or services. Such contaminations result in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost client orders and potentially credits for prior shipments. In addition to microbiological contaminations, the potential for genetic contaminations also exists and may require us to restart the applicable animal colonies, and would result in inventory loss, additional start-up costs and possibly reduced sales. Contaminations also expose us to risks that clients will request compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. Further, many of our operations are comprised of complex mechanical systems that are subject to periodic failure, including aging fatigue. Such failures are unpredictable, and while we have made significant capital expenditures designed to create redundancy within these mechanical systems, strengthen our biosecurity, improve our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations, and replace impaired systems and equipment in advance of such events, failures and/or contaminations may still occur. The outsourcing trend in non-clinical (discovery and safety assessment) stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could impair our growth. Over the past decade, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have generally increased their outsourcing of non-clinical research support activities, such as discovery and safety assessment. While many industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue to increase for the next several years (although with different growth rates for different phases of drug discovery and development), decreases in such outsourcing may result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of any one or more of our service lines and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently influenced outsourcing demand from our clients, please see the section entitled “Our Strategy” above. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete for business with other non-clinical drug development partners and blood product and therapeutic services companies, other CDMOs, as well as internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients, who may have greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals for outsourced services. We compete on a variety of factors, including: • reputation for on-time quality performance; • reputation for regulatory compliance; • reputation for responsive client service and support; • expertise and experience in multiple specialized areas; • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the drug discovery and development spectrum; • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the manufacturing support spectrum; • ability to provide flexible and customized solutions to support our clients’ drug discovery, non-clinical development, and manufacturing support needs; • broad geographic availability (with consistent quality); • price/value, spend and flexibility; • technological and scientific expertise and efficient drug development processes; • quality of facilities; • financial stability; • size; • ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner; 27 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. • ability to place orders through eCommerce channels; and • accessibility of client data through secure portals. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price and other concessions that could adversely affect our operating results. The drug discovery and development services industry has continued to see a trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies, which are targets for each other and for large pharmaceutical companies. If this trend continues, it is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies, with respect to both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, small, specialized entities considering entering the industries will continue to find lower barriers to entry, and private equity firms may determine that there are opportunities to acquire and consolidate these companies, thus further increasing possible competition. Our competition in the CDMO market includes full-service contract manufacturers and large pharmaceutical companies offering third-party manufacturing services to fill their excess capacity. Also, large pharmaceutical companies have been seeking to divest portions of their manufacturing capacity, and any such divested businesses may compete with us in the future. Furthermore, many of our CDMO competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or other resources than we do. Moreover, additional competition may emerge, particularly in lower-cost jurisdictions such as India and China, which could, among other things, result in a decrease in the fees paid for our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. More generally, our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. In the aggregate, these competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our technologies, services or products and could adversely affect our financial results. New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research, which could reduce demand for some of our products and services. The scientific community continues to develop cell-based and new alternative model methods (NAMs), which do not involve working with animals models and are designed to increase the translation from findings in early-stage discovery and pre-clinical studies to human studies, and vice-versa. As these methods continue to advance, they may supplement, and in some cases possibly replace or supplant methodologies that are currently in use, such as the use of traditional living animals in biomedical research. In addition, technological improvements, such as imaging and other translational biomarker technologies, could impact demand for animal research models. Further, manufacturers, including Charles River, have recently introduced recombinant versions of LAL, which has been historically derived from live animals. It is our strategy to explore new technologies to refine and potentially reduce the use of animal models and animal derived products as new in vitro and in silico methods become available and synthetically-manufactured products become validated with sufficient data to ensure public safety. For information regarding our efforts to support development and to provide the best translational models to supplement or replace traditional models, see “Our Strategy” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. However, we may not be able to develop new products, inputs or processes effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales. Lastly, other companies or entities may develop research models, inputs or processes with characteristics different from those that we produce, and that may be viewed as more desirable by some of our clients. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products. We continue to seek opportunities to develop and market new services and products that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. We believe our ability to innovate through internal research and development efforts and license or acquire new technologies from third parties are both critical to our ability to continue to meet the needs of our clients. Our ability to gain access to such technologies depends, in part, on our ability to convince innovators that we can successfully develop and commercialize their inventions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new technologies of interest to our clients. Even if we are able to identify these opportunities, negotiating license agreements on commercially acceptable terms may prove difficult. In addition, our ongoing internal research and development efforts may not always yield offerings that meet client demand. If we are unable to develop new services and products and/or create demand for those newly developed services and products, our future business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices in certain of our businesses could reduce profitability. The cost of collecting, processing and testing products has risen significantly in recent years and will likely continue to increase given stringency of demands on raw materials. These cost increases are related to new and improved testing procedures, increased regulatory requirements, and higher staff and supply costs, including labor inflation. Competition and fixed price contracts may limit our ability to maintain existing operating margins. Some competitors have greater resources than us to 28 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. sustain periods of marginally profitable or unprofitable sales. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices may reduce profitability and may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Legal and Regulatory Risk Factors Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission on behalf of our clients to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, the issuance of a notice of objectionable observations or a warning letter from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation affecting data integrity by us for GLP or cGMP requirements that are not addressed to the regulatory monitoring authorities’ satisfaction could materially and adversely affect us. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines or the temporary closure of our facilities. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. Where applicable, our clients expect us to timely deliver their nonclinical data compliant with the FDA’s SEND (Standardization for Exchange of Nonclinical Data) standards. Notwithstanding, some of these standards require additional operating and capital expenses that will impact not only us and our industry competitors, but clients in the biomedical research community. Non-compliance with any of these expectations could lead to official action by a government authority, damage to our reputation and a potential loss of business. In addition, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of research animals for research purposes continue to evolve. Similarly, guidance has been and continues to be developed for other areas that impact the biomedical research community on both a national and international basis including transportation, mandated contingency planning, euthanasia guidance, import and export requirements of biological materials, health monitoring requirements and the use of disinfectants. Our Cell Solutions business is subject to complex regulation by federal, state and local governments in the U.S. This business requires us to obtain many licenses, permits, authorizations, accreditations, approvals, and certificates to fully comply with appropriate regulations in every jurisdiction in which we operate and sell. Federal, state and local regulations do change, requiring prompt adoption to remain in a constant state of compliance. Changes in the regulations could require us to alter how we operate our business, potentially resulting in a significantly increased cost of compliance. Our donor collection centers are registered with the FDA and the FDA periodically conducts inspections of those facilities and operations. At the conclusion of each inspection, the FDA provides us with a list of objectionable conditions and practices observed during the inspection that could result in additional enforcement actions. Failure to comply with the regulations enforced by the FDA could result in sanctions and/or remedies and have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to comply with stringent, complex and evolving laws, rules, regulations and standards in many jurisdictions, as well as contractual obligations, relating to data privacy and security. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with stringent, complex and frequently evolving laws, rules, regulations and standards in many jurisdictions, as well as contractual obligations, relating to data privacy and security. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer, storage and other processing of personal information complies with such requirements can increase operating costs, impact the development of new products or services, and reduce operational efficiency. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data privacy and security legal framework with which we must comply. For example, we are required to comply with the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which became effective on May 25, 2018. The EU GDPR imposes stringent obligations regarding the collection, control, use, sharing, disclosure and other processing of personal data of individuals within the EU and European Economic Area (EEA). EU member states may also impose additional requirements in relation to personal data through their national implementing legislation. The EU GDPR also imposes specific restrictions on the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the EU and EEA, including the use of appropriate safeguards to enable such transfers, such as Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) and the EU-US Data Privacy Framework (DPF). The EU-US DPF was adopted in July 2023 and provides US-based organizations who self-certify with a reliable mechanism for personal data transfers from the EU, United Kingdom, and Switzerland. Although these mechanisms are currently valid for purposes of transferring personal data, they could be subject to legal challenges and there is no assurance that we could satisfy or rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal data. If we are otherwise unable to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we 29 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. provide our services, the geographical location or segregation of our relevant systems and operations, and could adversely affect our financial results. While we have implemented controls and procedures to comply with the requirements of the EU GDPR, such procedures and controls may not be effective in ensuring compliance or preventing unauthorized transfers of personal data. Additionally, we are subject to the privacy and data protection laws of the UK, including the UK Data Protection Act of 2018 (UK GDPR). Similar to the EU GDPR, the UK GDPR imposes restrictions on the processing of personal data, as well as transfers of personal data from the UK to other countries. Failure to comply with the EU and/or the UK GDPR can result in significant fines and other liability. Moreover, China adopted the Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) and Data Security Law (DSL) in 2021, which promulgated national privacy and security requirements relating to the collection, processing, transfer and security of personal information in or from China. Violations of the PIPL or DSL could result in fines and penalties, suspension of data transfers, cancellation of business authorizations, personal liability for responsible company officers, as well as criminal and civil liability. In the event that the PIPL requires us to store data in China, or limits our ability to transfer data across borders, we may experience increased costs and business inefficiencies. Fines, corrective actions, or other penalties asserted due to alleged noncompliance may impose additional financial or operational costs, limit our ability to attract and retain local talent, or limit our ability to do business in China. In the US, there are numerous federal and state data privacy and security laws, rules, and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, retention, security, transfer, storage and other processing of personal information, including federal and state data privacy laws, data breach notification laws, and data disposal laws. For example, at the federal level, we are subject the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, which has the authority to regulate and enforce against unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, including acts and practices with respect to data privacy and security. If our public statements about our use, collection, disclosure and other processing of personal information are alleged to be deceptive, unfair or misrepresentative of our actual practices, we may be subject to potential government or legal investigation or action. If we are found to have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may also be subject to penalties, fines, damages, injunctions or other outcomes that may adversely affect our operations and financial results. The United States Congress also has considered, and may in the future consider, various proposals from time to time for comprehensive federal data privacy legislation to which we may become subject if passed and which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. At the state level, we are subject to laws and regulations like the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA). The CCPA and CPRA create transparency requirements for companies, grant California residents various rights with regard to their personal information, and impose additional data protection obligations on companies doing business in California. Failure to comply with the CCPA and CPRA may result in, among other things, significant civil penalties and injunctive relief, or potential statutory or actual damages. The CCPA and CPRA also provide a private right of action for data breaches that result in the loss of personal information. The CCPA and CPRA may impact our business activities and require compliance costs that adversely affect business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. These state statutes, and other similar state or federal laws that may be enacted in the future may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies, incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses, and otherwise suffer adverse impacts on our business. Additionally, while collecting research products from donors, we may collect, use, disclose, maintain and transmit donor information in ways that will be subject to many of the numerous state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transmission or confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. We have made changes to, and investments in, our business practices and will continue to monitor developments and make appropriate changes to help attain compliance with these evolving and complex laws, rules, regulations and standards. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with any such laws, rules, regulations, standards or contractual obligations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, significant fines, civil or criminal penalties, costly litigation (including class actions), government investigation or inquiries, enforcement actions, claims, proceedings, judgements, awards, penalties, sanctions or other adverse impacts that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with U.S., state, local or international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including regulations issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Environmental Protection Agency, Nuclear Regulatory Agency and Department of Transportation, could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. We are subject to licensing and regulation under laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees and protecting employees from the spread of COVID-19. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other environmental laws may have similar consequences to us or our supplier, or 30 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. result in liability to us. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on us that may be costly. Changes in U.S. and International Tax Law, results of tax audits, or material changes in our stock price could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate and financial results. As a global company, we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states, and other jurisdictions. Changes to governmental laws and regulations, or their interpretations, including the adoption of global minimum taxation requirements and potential changes to existing tax law by the current U.S. Presidential administration and Congress, could impact our profits, effective tax rate and cash flows. We receive substantial tax credits and incentives in Canada, from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments, China, France, the U.K., and the U.S. Any reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits and incentives or outcomes of tax controversies associated with these credits, could have a material adverse effect on our profits, cash flows and effective tax rate. Additionally, we are subject to regular audits with respect to various tax returns and processes in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Errors or omissions in tax returns, process failures, increase to tax rates or differences in interpretation of tax laws by tax authorities may lead to litigation, payments of additional taxes, penalties, and interest. We are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. As a result, we have received, and may in the future receive, assessments in multiple jurisdictions, on various tax-related assertions. Any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could harm our financial condition and operating results, require adverse changes to our business practices, or subject us to additional litigation and regulatory inquiries. In addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and often involves uncertainty. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. Our tax expense and liabilities are affected by certain factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes to our forecasts of income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, and changes in our tax assets and liabilities and their valuation. Non-clinical contract research services create a risk of liability. As a global drug development partner, we face a range of potential liabilities, which may include: • risks associated with errors or omissions in reporting of study detail in non-clinical studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may undermine the usefulness of a study or data from the study, or which may potentially advance studies absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing; • risks associated with our possible failure to properly care for our clients’ property, such as research models and samples, study compounds, records, work in progress, other archived materials or goods and materials in transit, while in our possession; • risks that models in our breeding facilities or in facilities that we manage may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to them or humans, despite preventive measures for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; • risks that we may have errors and omissions and/or product liabilities related to our products designed to conduct lot release testing of medical devices, injectable drugs, food, beverages, and home and beauty products (primarily through our Microbial Solutions business), or in the testing of biologics and other services performed by our Biologics Solutions business, which could result in us or our clients failing to identify unsafe or contaminated materials; • risk of transmitting dangerous infectious diseases, as a result of the failure of our screening and testing processes, or new pathogens that may be undetected by such processes; and • recent acquisitions have expanded our business into the CDMO market, which entails additional risks of liability, including potential product liability claims, errors and omissions claims in connection with our services and potential liability under indemnification agreements between us and our officers and directors. While we attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety of methods, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks. In our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities through our regimen of animal testing, quarantine procedures and veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to control the exposure of animal related disease or infections. In our Cell Solutions, DSA, and Manufacturing businesses, we attempt to reduce these risks through the negotiation of contractual risk transfer provisions, such as indemnification provisions, limitations of liability, and client insurance requirements. 31 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Contractual risk transfer indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim that is outside any contractual indemnification provision, or if a party does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or the damage is beyond the scope or level of insurance coverage. We also often contractually indemnify our clients (subject to a limitation of liability), similar to the way they indemnify us, and we may be materially adversely affected if we have to fulfill our indemnity obligations. Furthermore, either we or a party required to indemnify us may not be able to maintain such insurance coverage (either at all or on terms acceptable to us). The failure to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights and defend against assertions of third-parties to intellectual property rights could adversely affect us. Many of our services, products and processes rely on intellectual property. In some cases, that intellectual property is owned by another party and licensed to us, sometimes exclusively. To protect our intellectual property rights, we primarily rely upon trade secret, patent, and copyright law, as well as contractual provisions relating to intellectual property ownership and control and confidentiality. Laws relating to intellectual property rights and contracts vary from country to country and are subject to change at any time. In addition, the agreements upon which we rely to protect our intellectual property might be breached, or might not be fully enforceable. Our intellectual property rights might not prevent our competitors from independently developing intellectual property that is similar to or duplicative of ours. Also, enforcement of our intellectual property rights may also require substantial investments of time, money, and oversight, and may not result in success. If we are unable to secure and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we respect third-party intellectual property rights, and make efforts to avoid violating valid and enforceable intellectual property rights, and seek to procure and pay for licenses from the holders of intellectual property rights that we seek to use. In some cases, we are asked to utilize components and processes that are provided to us by our clients. Customers of our CDMO business, for example, may utilize intellectual property for the production of their products, the manufacture of which has been contracted to us. Failure by us and/or our customers to secure and maintain rights to third-party intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect, including reduced revenue as a result in a delay or cancellation of the manufacture of products and involvement in judicial and administrative proceedings in which we are named as a party. Further, the drug discovery, drug development, and drug manufacturing industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. This may be exacerbated by the increased use of cell-based and new alternative model methods not involving animal models, which may supplement and/or replace or supplant the use of traditional living animal models in biomedical research. Refer to “Risk Factors – New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research, which could reduce demand for some of our products and services .” herein for our assessment of certain other relevant risk factors on this topic. Litigation can be expensive, time consuming, and can divert management’s attention from other business concerns. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we may be compelled by a court to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and be ordered to stop the challenged activity, or obtain a license on unnegotiated and/or unfavorable terms. Our by-laws designate the state courts located in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions, including derivative actions, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, other employees, or the Company's stockholders and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or the Company’s stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Company’s certificate of incorporation or the Company’s by-laws (in each case, as they may be amended from time to time), or (4) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be a state court located within the state of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware). However, this exclusive forum provision will not apply to suits brought under the federal securities laws for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. If a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our by-laws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business and financial condition. Furthermore, although we believe the exclusive forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law for the specified types of actions and proceedings, this provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, or other employees and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. 32 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. We are involved in legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are involved in legal proceedings related to various matters, including securities litigation, and may become involved in other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the future. For example, as discussed further in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, a putative securities class action and derivative securities lawsuit have been filed against the Company, and certain officers and directors, alleging that disclosures about the Company’s practices with respect to the importation of non-human primates were materially false or misleading. Any claims against us, whether meritorious or not, can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, be harmful to our reputation, require significant management attention, and divert significant resources. In addition, the expense of litigation and the timing of this expense from period to period are difficult to estimate and subject to change. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. Given the uncertain nature of legal proceedings generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome. We could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any particular period. Labor and Employment Risk Factors We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees, which could harm our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management who have skills and industry experience aligned with our strategic objectives. James C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer and President since 1992 and Chairman since 2000, has held various positions with us for four decades. While we entered into an amended employment agreement with Mr. Foster in 2021, most members of our senior management do not have employment agreements, except in jurisdictions outside of the United States where employment contracts are common for most employees. If Mr. Foster or other members of senior management do not continue in their present positions, our business may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to attract, hire or retain key team members or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel, while also ensuring an inclusive and diverse culture. We have a strong record of employee retention, and we strive to reduce the impact of the potential loss of existing employees by having an established organizational talent review process that identifies successors and potential talent needs. However, there is still significant competition for qualified personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Failure to retain qualified existing personnel and recruit additional key scientific, technical, and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business. We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our team members. Our employees are not unionized in the U.S. and employees at some of our European facilities are represented by works councils, collective bargaining agreements, employee representative groups and/or unions, which is consistent with local customs for our industry. Our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees, which includes supporting their overall wellbeing. If we fail to maintain good relations with our team members or with the labor organizations, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. We acknowledge a specific risk associated with periodic reductions in our workforce. As part of our strategic and operational management, we, from time to time, undertake workforce reductions to align with evolving business trends, market dynamics, or operational efficiency goals. Such actions result in incremental severance and benefits costs and replacing lost talent in the future may result in higher costs, all of which could adversely affect our financial results. Financial and Accounting Risk Factors Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. As of December 30, 2023, we had $2.6 billion of debt and finance leases (debt). Our debt could have significant adverse effects on our business, including making it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates, and reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Disruption in the financial market could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. For additional information regarding our debt, please see Note 9, “Long-Term Debt and Finance Lease Obligations”, included in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 33 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Impairment of long lived tangible assets and intangible assets (such as goodwill and other intangible assets) may adversely impact future results of operations. We have intangible assets, including goodwill, on our balance sheet due to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, projections of cash flows that arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses and discount rates based on an analysis of our weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets. Disruptions in global financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions could, among other things, impact the discount rate. Other assumptions used in the valuations and actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows, which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such assets. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated, overall macroeconomic or industry conditions deteriorate and/or our market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in establishing the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets, as well as long-lived tangible assets, such as property, plant and equipment and operating lease right-of-use assets. Should disruption in the global financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions have a prolonged impact on our industry, triggering events may arise resulting in long-lived tangible asset, intangible asset, or goodwill impairments. To the extent long-lived tangible assets, intangible assets, or goodwill are impaired, their carrying value will be written down to their implied fair values and a charge will be made to our net income. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. As of December 30, 2023, the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangibles on our consolidated balance sheet was $4.0 billion, property, plant and equipment was $1.6 billion, and operating lease right-of-use assets was $394.0 million. General Risk Factors Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, capital requirements, legal requirements, earnings and other factors. Consequently, our shareholders should not rely on dividends to receive a return on their investment. Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by the risks discussed above, as well as: changes in the general global economy; changes in the mix of our products and services; cyclical buying patterns of our clients; the financial performance of our strategic and venture capital investments; certain acquisition-related adjustments, including change in fair value of contingent payments both receivable from or payable to counterparties; and the occasional extra week (“53rd week”) that we recognize in a fiscal year (and fourth fiscal quarter thereof), including 2022, due to our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Increasing focus on environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters, including climate-related issues, may impact our business, financial results or stock price. There has been increasing public focus by investors, clients, environmental activists, the media and governmental and nongovernmental organizations on a variety of ESG matters. If we are not effective in addressing ESG matters affecting our business, or setting and meeting relevant sustainability and climate-related goals, including our approved greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets, which have been approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative, our reputation and financial results may suffer. We may experience increased costs in order to execute upon our sustainability goals and measure achievement of those goals, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Heightened stakeholder focus on ESG matters related to our business requires the continuous monitoring of various and evolving laws, regulations, standards and expectations and the associated reporting requirements. A failure to adequately meet stakeholder expectations may result in noncompliance, the loss of business, reputational impacts, diluted market valuation, an inability to attract clients and an inability to attract and retain top talent. A failure to comply with new laws, regulations, or reporting requirements, could negatively impact our reputation and our business. In addition, our adoption of certain standards or mandated compliance to certain requirements could necessitate additional investments that could impact our profitability. 34 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A discussion of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 and a comparison of our results for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 was included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 22, 2023. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain percentage changes may not recalculate due to rounding. Overview We are a leading, full service, non-clinical global drug development partner. For over 75 years, we have been in the business of providing the research models required in the research and development of new drugs, devices, and therapies. Over this time, we have built upon our original core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse portfolio of discovery and safety assessment services, both Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and non-GLP, that supports our clients from target identification through non-clinical development. We also provide a suite of products and services to support our clients’ manufacturing activities, including our contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) business. Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to create a more efficient and flexible drug development model, which reduces their costs, enhances their productivity and effectiveness, and increases speed to market. Our client base includes major global pharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies; agricultural and industrial chemical, life science, veterinary medicine, medical device, diagnostic and consumer product companies; contract research and contract manufacturing organizations; and other commercial entities, as well as leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies around the world. We currently operate in 155 sites and in over 20 countries worldwide, which numbers exclude certain Insourcing Solutions (IS) sites. Segment Reporting Our three reportable segments are Research Models and Services (RMS), Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA), and Manufacturing Solutions (Manufacturing). Our RMS reportable segment includes the Research Models, Research Model Services, and Cell Solutions businesses. Research Models includes the commercial production and sale of small research models, as well as the supply of large research models. Research Model Services includes: Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS), which performs contract breeding and other services associated with genetically engineered models; Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS), which provides health monitoring and diagnostics services related to research models; and Insourcing Solutions (IS), which provides colony management of our clients’ research operations (including recruitment, training, staffing, and management services) within our clients’ facilities as well as our own vivarium space, utilizing our Charles River Accelerator and Development Lab (CRADL) option. Cell Solutions provides controlled, consistent, customized primary cells and blood components derived from normal and mobilized peripheral blood and bone marrow. Our DSA segment is comprised of two businesses: Discovery Services and Safety Assessment. We provide regulated and non-regulated DSA services to support the research, development, and regulatory-required safety testing of potential new drugs, including therapeutic discovery and optimization plus in vitro and in vivo studies, laboratory support services, and strategic non-clinical consulting and program management to support product development. Our Manufacturing reportable segment includes Microbial Solutions, which provides in vitro (non-animal) lot-release testing products, microbial detection products, and species identification services and Biologics Solutions (Biologics), which performs specialized testing of biologics (Biologics Testing Solutions) as well as contract development and manufacturing products and services (CDMO). In December of 2022, we sold the Avian Vaccine Services (Avian) business, reported in the Manufacturing segment, which supplied specific-pathogen-free chicken eggs and chickens. 40 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Fiscal Quarters Our fiscal year is typically based on 52-weeks, with each quarter composed of 13 weeks ending on the last Saturday on, or closest to, March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. A 53rd week in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year is occasionally necessary to align with a December 31 calendar year-end, which occurred in fiscal year 2022. Business Trends In fiscal year 2023, biopharmaceutical clients reprioritized their drug development programs and were more cautious with their budgetary spending amidst the uncertainty in the broader market environment, including a slowdown in biotechnology funding activities, as well as macroeconomic challenges, including higher interest rates. The demand and pricing for our products and services continued to increase in fiscal year 2023, but at a slower pace than in recent years. Despite the near-term market pressures, many of our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients continued to benefit from the long-term value of strategic outsourcing to improve their operating efficiency and to access capabilities that they do not maintain internally. Many of our large biopharmaceutical clients have continued to increase investments in their drug discovery and early-stage development efforts and have strengthened their relationships with outsourced partners, like Charles River, and biotechnology companies to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. While these clients were more cautious with their early-stage R&D spending in fiscal year 2023, these large biopharmaceutical clients were the principal driver of revenue growth. A reduction in the biotechnology funding environment from peak levels in 2021 resulted in a moderation of demand from small and mid-size biotechnology clients. We have recently experienced an increase in our allowance for credit losses, which increased to $25.7 million as of December 30, 2023 from $11.3 million as of December 31, 2022 and may expect this trend to continue if the biotechnology funding environment remains consistent or further softens. Our ability to continue to deliver our leading suite of research and non-clinical development solutions has endeavored our clients to continue to choose to partner with us for our flexible and efficient outsourcing solutions, broad scientific capabilities, and global scale. Revenue for RMS increased, principally driven by pricing. China reported healthy growth rates despite pressure from more cautious spending on biomedical research activity from clients within China. Demand for research model services continued to perform well, led by our Insourcing Solutions business, particularly our CRADL™ operations. Clients are increasingly adopting CRADL™’s flexible model to access vivarium space without having to invest in internal infrastructure. To support client demand, we have expanded CRADL™’s footprint both organically and through the acquisition of Explora BioLabs in April 2022. We are confident that research models and services will remain essential tools for our clients’ drug discovery and early-stage development efforts. DSA continued to benefit from sustained trends in fiscal year 2023. The Safety Assessment revenue growth rate moderated due to our clients’ budgetary spending constraints but continued to report a solid growth rate for the fiscal year due to a combination of price increases and study volume. Safety Assessment growth was supported by the meaningful scale of the backlog for this business, although it has recently decreased. DSA backlog decreased to $2.45 billion as of December 30, 2023 from $3.15 billion as of December 31, 2022. We believe that our comprehensive scientific capabilities and global scale, as well as the breadth and depth of our scientific expertise, quality, and responsiveness remain key criteria when our clients make the decision to outsource to us. Biotechnology clients continue to move their programs forward and utilize outsourcing to achieve their goal of more efficient and effective drug research to bring innovative new therapies to market. We continued to enhance our Discovery Services capabilities to provide clients with a comprehensive portfolio that enables them to start working with us at the earliest stages of the discovery process. We have accomplished this in recent years through acquisitions and by adding cutting-edge capabilities to our discovery toolkit through technology partnerships. In fiscal year 2023, demand in our Discovery Services business declined, as clients reprioritize their program and conserve their early-stage spending, which resulted in lower proposal activity and a longer lead time to commence new projects. Revenue for our products and services that support our clients’ manufacturing activities increased across most of our Manufacturing Solutions businesses in fiscal year 2023 however, demand in this reportable segment was impacted by clients’ more cautious spending trends in fiscal year 2023, as well as destocking activities and other challenges associated with CDMO and biopharmaceutical clients. Demand for our cell and gene therapy CDMO services improved meaningfully in fiscal year 2023 as the initiatives that we have implemented to improve the performance of our CDMO business gained traction and generated a healthy pipeline of new business opportunities including working on two commercial products. Charles River remains a premier scientific partner for development, testing, and manufacturing of advanced drug modalities and the acquisition of the CDMO businesses in 2021, Cognate and Vigene, further enhanced our presence in the high-growth cell and gene therapy sector. In response to recent trends described above, we have undertaken restructuring actions within all reportable segments at various locations across North America, Europe and Asia. This includes workforce right-sizing actions, resulting in severance and transition costs; and costs related to the consolidation of facilities, resulting in asset impairment and accelerated depreciation 41 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. charges. Restructuring charges recognized during fiscal year 2023 were approximately $30 million, of which $18 million related to asset impairment and accelerated depreciation charges and $12 million related to severance charges. We expect that these effectuated actions as well as other upcoming planned actions will result in approximately $60 million to $70 million of cost savings on an annualized basis. Recent Acquisitions Our strategy is to augment internal growth of existing businesses with complementary acquisitions. We continue to make strategic acquisitions designed to expand our portfolio of products and services to support the drug discovery and development continuum. Our recent acquisitions are described below. On November 30, 2023, we completed our acquisition of an additional 41% equity interest of Noveprim Group (“Noveprim”), a leading provider of non-human primates (“NHPs”) used for biomedical, pharmaceutical and toxicological research purposes, resulting in a 90% controlling interest. The acquisition strengthens and diversifies the supply chain for our DSA segment. We had previously acquired a 49% equity stake in 2022 for $90.0 million up-front and additional future contingent payments up to $5.0 million based on future performance. The total preliminary purchase price for the Noveprim acquisition is $374.8 million, which includes $144.6 million additional cash paid for the 41% equity interest, elimination of historical activity and intercompany balances of $198.8 million which includes a remeasurement gain on the 49% equity investment of $103.2 million, contingent consideration of $33.3 million, deferred purchase price of $12.0 million payable from 2024 through 2027, offset by estimated post-closing adjustments for working capital of $13.8 million. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment for NHPs vertically integrated into our Safety Assessment supply chain and the RMS reportable segment for NHPs sold to third party customers. On January 30, 2023, we acquired SAMDI Tech, Inc., (SAMDI), a leading provider of high-quality, label-free high-throughput screening (HTS) solutions for drug discovery research. The acquisition of SAMDI will provide clients with seamless access to the premier, label-free HTS MS platform and create a comprehensive, library of drug discovery solutions. The purchase price of SAMDI was $62.8 million, net of $0.4 million in cash, inclusive of a 20% strategic equity interest previously owned by us of $12.6 million. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. On April 5, 2022, we acquired Explora BioLabs Holdings, Inc. (Explora BioLabs), a provider of contract vivarium research services, providing biopharmaceutical clients with turnkey in vivo vivarium facilities, management and related services to efficiently conduct their early-stage research activities. The acquisition of Explora BioLabs complements our existing Insourcing Solutions business, specifically our CRADL ™ footprint, and offers incremental opportunities to partner with an emerging client base, many of which are engaged in cell and gene therapy development. The purchase price of Explora BioLabs was $284.5 million, net of $6.6 million in cash acquired. The acquisition was funded through proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our RMS reportable segment. Recent Divestiture We routinely evaluate strategic fit and fundamental performance of our global infrastructure and divest operations that do not meet key business criteria or where capital could be better deployed in other long-term growth opportunities. On December 20, 2022, we completed the sale of our Avian Vaccine Services (Avian) business to a private investor group for a preliminary purchase price of $167 million in cash, subject to certain customary closing adjustments, and future contingent payments up to an additional $30 million. Prior to divestiture, this business was reported in our Manufacturing reportable segment. U.S. Government Investigations into Non-Human Primate Supply Chain On February 16, 2023, the Company was informed by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) that in conjunction with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), it had commenced an investigation into the Company’s conduct regarding several shipments of non-human primates from Cambodia. On February 17, 2023 the Company received a grand jury subpoena requesting certain documents related to such investigation. The Company is aware of a parallel civil investigation being undertaken by the DOJ and USFWS. The Company is cooperating with the DOJ and the USFWS and believes that the concerns raised with respect to the Company’s conduct are without merit. The Company maintains a global supplier onboarding and oversight program incorporating risk-based due diligence, auditing, and monitoring practices to help ensure the quality of our supplier relationships and compliance with applicable U.S. and international laws and regulations, and has operated under the belief that all shipments of non-human primates it received satisfied the material requirements, documentation and related processes and procedures of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) documentation and related processes and procedures, which guides the release of each import by USFWS. Notwithstanding our efforts and good-faith belief, in connection with the civil investigation, the Company has voluntarily suspended future shipments of non-human primates from Cambodia to the United States until such time that the Company and USFWS can agree upon and implement additional procedures to reasonably ensure that non-human primates imported from Cambodia are 42 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. purpose-bred. The Company continues to care for the Cambodia-sourced non-human primates from certain recent shipments in the United States. The carrying value of the inventory related to these shipments is approximately $27 million as of December 30, 2023, which reflects the value of the shipments in accordance with our inventory accounting policy. On May 16, 2023, the Company received an inquiry from the Enforcement Division of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) requesting it to voluntarily provide information, subsequently augmented with a document subpoena, primarily related to the sourcing of non-human primates, and the Company is cooperating with the request. We are not able to predict what action, if any, might be taken in the future by the DOJ, USFWS, SEC or other governmental authorities as a result of the investigations. None of the DOJ, USFWS or SEC has provided the Company with any specific timeline or indication as to when these investigations or, specific to the DOJ and USFWS, discussions regarding future processes and procedures, will be concluded or resolved. The Company cannot predict the timing, outcome or possible impact of the investigations, including without limitation any potential fines, penalties or liabilities. Refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors” disclosed herein for our assessment of risk factors surrounding this matter. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S.). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are monitored and analyzed by us for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on our historical experience, trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment necessary to account for highly uncertain matters or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of the estimates and assumptions on our consolidated financial statements is or may be material. We believe the following represent our critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements: Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when, or as, obligations under the terms of a contract are satisfied, which occurs when control of the promised products or services is transferred to customers. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring products or services to a customer (“transaction price”). To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the amount to which we expect to be entitled. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. Estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available. Sales, value add, and other taxes collected on behalf of third parties are excluded from revenue. When determining the transaction price of a contract, an adjustment is made if payment from a customer occurs either significantly before or significantly after performance, resulting in a significant financing component. Generally, we do not extend payment terms beyond one year. Applying the practical expedient, we do not assess whether a significant financing component exists if the period between when we perform our obligations under the contract and when the customer pays is one year or less. Our contracts do not generally contain significant financing components. Contracts with customers may contain multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated relative standalone selling prices of the promised products or services underlying each performance obligation. We determine standalone selling prices based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications exist when the modification either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and obligations. Generally, when contract modifications create new performance obligations, the modification is considered to be a separate contract and revenue is recognized prospectively. When contract modifications change existing performance obligations, the impact on the existing transaction price and measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is generally recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis. 43 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Product revenue is generally recognized when the customer obtains control of our product, which occurs at a point in time, and may be upon shipment or upon delivery based on the contractual shipping terms of a contract. Service revenue is generally recognized over time as the services are delivered to the customer based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Depending on which better depicts the transfer of value to the customer, we generally measure our progress using either cost-to-cost (input method) or right-to-invoice (output method). We use the cost-to-cost measure of progress when it best depicts the transfer of value to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contract, generally related to fixed fee service contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. The costs calculation includes variables such as labor hours, allocation of overhead costs, research model costs, and subcontractor costs. Revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. The right-to-invoice measure of progress is generally related to rate per unit contracts, as the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on discrete service or time-based increments, such as samples tested or labor hours incurred. Revenue is recorded in the amount invoiced since that amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. During fiscal year 2023, $2.6 billion, or approximately 60%, of our total revenue recognized ($4.1 billion) is DSA service revenue transferred over time. Intangible Assets (including Goodwill) and certain Biological Assets We use assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. The determination of the fair value of intangible assets (including goodwill) and certain biological assets, which represent a significant portion of the purchase price in certain recent acquisitions, requires the use of significant judgment with regard to (i) the fair value; and (ii) whether such assets are amortizable or non-amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the asset will be amortized. We utilize commonly accepted valuation techniques, such as the income, cost and market approaches, as appropriate, in establishing the fair value of these assets. Typically, key assumptions include projections of cash flows that arise from these assets of acquired businesses as well as discount rates based on an analysis of the weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets. In our recent acquisitions, customer relationship intangible assets (also referred to as client relationships) and certain biological assets have been the most significant identifiable assets acquired. To determine the fair value of the acquired client relationships and biological assets, we utilized the multiple period excess earnings model (a commonly accepted valuation technique), which includes the following key assumptions: projections of cash flows from the acquired entities, which included future revenue, cost of revenue, operating income margins, customer attrition rates, productivity rates; as well as discount rates based on a market participant’s weighted average cost of capital. The value of the client relationship acquired was $23 million for fiscal year 2023 and $64 million for fiscal year 2022. The value of the biological assets acquired was $168 million for fiscal year 2023. We review definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. No significant impairments were recognized during fiscal years 2023 and 2022. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually, during the fourth quarter, and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset-related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in our analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and our evaluation of goodwill for impairment. We perform the quantitative impairment test where we compare the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying values. If the carrying values of the net assets assigned to the reporting units exceed the fair values of the reporting units, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. In fiscal years 2023 and 2022 we performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for our reporting units. Fair value was determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination was deemed to be the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilized information about our company as well as publicly available industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determined fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Our 2023 and 2022 impairment tests indicated that goodwill was not impaired. 44 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Valuation and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property, plant, and equipment, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, the following: • significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; • significant negative industry or economic trends; or • significant changes or developments in strategy or operations that negatively affect the utilization of our long-lived assets. Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset, net of any sublease income, if applicable, and its eventual disposition. In the event that such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to their fair values. We measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. Significant judgments are required to estimate future cash flows, including the selection of appropriate discount rates and other assumptions. We may also estimate fair value based on market prices for similar assets, as appropriate. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for these assets. Long-lived asset impairments of $42 million were recognized during fiscal year 2023 and no significant impairments were recognized during 2022. Income Taxes We prepare and file income tax returns based on our interpretation of each jurisdiction’s tax laws and regulations. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Significant management judgment is required in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. In making this determination, under the applicable financial accounting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and the effects of tax planning strategies. Our valuation allowance was $304.2 million as of December 30, 2023. In the event actual results differ from our estimates, we will adjust our estimates in future periods and may establish additional allowances or reversals as necessary. We account for uncertain tax positions using a “more-likely-than-not” threshold for recognizing and resolving uncertain tax positions. We evaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and consider various factors, that include, but are not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, the effective settlement of matters subject to audit, information obtained during in process audit activities and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We adjust the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts surrounding the uncertain positions. Our liabilities for uncertain tax positions can be relieved only if the contingency becomes legally extinguished through either payment to the taxing authority or the expiration of the statute of limitations, the recognition of the benefits associated with the position meet the “more-likely-than-not” threshold or the liability becomes effectively settled through the controversy process. We consider matters to be effectively settled once the taxing authority has completed all of its required or expected examination procedures, including all appeals and administrative reviews; we have no plans to appeal or litigate any aspect of the tax position; and we believe that it is highly unlikely that the taxing authority would re-examine the related tax position. We also accrue for potential interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We generally receive a tax deduction upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options by employees, or the vesting of restricted stock and performance share units held by employees. The stock price, timing, and amount of vesting and exercising of stock-based compensation could materially impact our current tax expense. Our global operations make the effective tax rate sensitive to significant tax law changes. Several countries have begun to enact legislation to implement the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) international tax framework, including the Pillar II global minimum tax regime with effect from January 1, 2024 or later. We are currently monitoring these developments, but do not expect there to be a material financial impact. 45 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 46 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations and Liquidity Revenue for fiscal year 2023 was $4.1 billion compared to $4.0 billion in fiscal year 2022. The 2023 increase as compared to the corresponding period in 2022 was $153.3 million, or 3.9%, and was primarily due to increased volume and pricing within our Safety Assessment business and our recent acquisition of Explora BioLabs; partially offset by the divestiture of our Avian business and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates when compared to fiscal year 2022. In fiscal year 2023, our operating income and operating income margin were $617.3 million and 14.9%, respectively, compared with $651.0 million and 16.4%, respectively, in fiscal year 2022. The decrease in operating income and operating income margins for fiscal year 2023 was primarily due to higher operating costs within our Manufacturing segment, restructuring and asset impairment charges principally in our DSA and Manufacturing segments, and the divestiture of the Avian business; partially offset by contributions of higher revenue described above. Net income attributable to common shareholders decreased to $474.6 million in fiscal year 2023, from $486.2 million in the corresponding period of 2022. The decrease in net income attributable to common shareholders of $11.6 million was primarily due to lower operating income described above and higher interest expense due to higher interest rates on our variable debt, partially offset by lower income tax expense during fiscal year 2023 compared to the corresponding period of 2022. During fiscal year 2023, our cash flows from operations was $683.9 million compared with $619.6 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by the amounts and timing of compensation payments and inventory purchases. Revenue and Operating Income The following tables present consolidated revenue by type and by reportable segment: Analysis of Segment Results The following table presents operating income by reportable segment: The following presents and discusses our consolidated financial results by each of our reportable segments: 47 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. RMS RMS revenue increased $53.2 million due primarily to higher research model services revenue, specifically the Insourcing Solutions business, which included the acquisition of Explora BioLabs contributing $15.6 million, higher small research model product revenue in North America and China, and higher large model product revenue due to the acquisition of Noveprim, which contributed $6.1 million; partially offset by the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal year 2022, which had contributed $7.4 million to revenue. RMS operating income decreased $5.7 million compared to fiscal year 2022. RMS operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2023 was 19.5%, a decrease of 220 bps from 21.7% for fiscal year 2022. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased due to higher amortization, operating, and staffing costs due to the acquisition of Explora BioLabs; mix of small research models products and services; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. DSA DSA revenue increased $168.3 million due primarily to service revenue which increased in the Safety Assessment business due to increased demand, principally biopharmaceutical clients, pricing of services, and the acquisition of SAMDI contributing $7.0 million to service revenue; partially offset by decreases in our Discovery Services business and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal year 2022, which had contributed $37.1 million to revenue. DSA operating income increased $73.2 million compared to fiscal year 2022. DSA operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2023 was 23.2%, an increase of 140 bps from 21.8% for fiscal year 2022. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to the contribution of higher revenue described above and lower amortization of intangible assets; partially offset by higher legal costs incurred in connection with investigations by the U.S government into the non-human primate supply chain, asset impairment charges related to a Discovery Services site closure and a recently divested site related to our Safety Assessment business, and the absence of certain favorable acquisition-related adjustments to contingent consideration arrangements incurred during 2022 which are recorded in selling, general and administrative costs. 48 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Manufacturing Manufacturing revenue decreased $68.1 million due primarily to the divestiture of our Avian business, which decreased revenue by $77.3 million, lower services revenue from our Biologics Testing business, and the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal year 2022 which contributed $8.2 million to revenue in the prior year; partially offset by increased CDMO and Microbial Solutions service revenue. Manufacturing operating income decreased $78.8 million compared to fiscal year 2022. Manufacturing operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2023 was 12.2%, a decrease of 900 bps from 21.2% for fiscal year 2022. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased primarily due to the divestiture of our Avian business, higher charges related to restructuring activities, and lower operating income due to higher operating costs within our Biologics Solutions business, an asset impairment charge, and the absence of a $19 million impact of a favorable ruling from tax authorities on certain indirect tax positions recorded within selling, general and administrative expense in the corresponding period in 2022. Unallocated Corporate Unallocated corporate costs consist of selling, general and administrative expenses that are not directly related or allocated to the reportable segments. The increase in unallocated corporate costs of $22.4 million, or 10.7%, compared to fiscal year 2022 is primarily related to an increase in our digital investments as well as higher variable compensation and benefits expenses. Costs as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2023 was 5.6%, an increase of 30 bps from 5.3% for fiscal year 2022. Other Income (Expense) Interest expense for fiscal year 2023 was $136.7 million, an increase of $77.4 million, or 130.6%, compared to $59.3 million in fiscal year 2022. The increase was due primarily to higher interest rates, and the absence of $49.7 million of gains recognized in connection with a debt-related foreign exchange forward contract in the corresponding period in 2022. Other income, net for fiscal year 2023 was $95.5 million, an increase of $65.0 million, or 213.0%, compared to $30.5 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase was due primarily to a gain on acquisition of $98.5 million for Noveprim, the absence of $46.5 million of foreign currency losses recognized in connection with a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. entity with a different functional currency, and lower net losses incurred on our venture capital, other strategic equity investments, and life insurance investments as compared to fiscal year 2022; partially offset by the absence of a gain on the divestiture of our Avian business of $123.4 million in fiscal year 2022. 49 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Income Taxes Income tax expense for fiscal year 2023 was $100.9 million, a decrease of $29.5 million compared to $130.4 million for fiscal year 2022. Our effective tax rate was 17.4% for fiscal year 2023 compared to 20.9% for fiscal year 2022. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily attributable to the impact of the non-taxable gain on Noveprim of $98.5 million; partially offset by a decreased tax benefit from stock-based compensation deductions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Cash Flows We currently require cash to fund our working capital needs, capital expansion, acquisitions, and to pay our debt, lease, venture capital and strategic equity investments, and pension obligations. Our principal sources of liquidity have been our cash flows from operations, recent divestitures, supplemented by long-term borrowings. Based on our current business plan, we believe that our existing funds, when combined with cash generated from operations and our access to financing resources, are sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. The following table presents our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments: The following table presents our net cash provided by operating activities: Net cash provided by cash flows from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements related to all of our activities other than investing and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting our net income for (1) non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, loss on debt extinguishment and other financing costs, deferred income taxes, long-lived asset impairment changes, gains and/or losses on venture capital and strategic equity investments, gains and/or losses on divestitures, changes in fair value of c ontingent consideration, a s well as (2) changes in operating assets and liabilities, which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash associat ed with transactions and when they are recognized in our results of operations. During fiscal year 2023, our cash flows from operations was $683.9 million compared with $619.6 million for fiscal year 2022. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by the amounts and timing of compensation payments and inventory purchases. 50 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. The following table presents our net cash used in investing activities: The primary use of cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2023 related to the acquisitions of Noveprim and SAMDI, capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments. The primary use of cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2022 related to the acquisition of Explora BioLabs, capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments; partially offset by proceeds from the sale of our Avian business. The following table presents our net cash used in financing ac tivities: For fiscal year 2023, net cash used in financing activities was primarily driven by debt repayments on our Credit Facility offset by borrowings to fund the recent acquisition of Noveprim. Net cash used in financing activities also reflected treasury stock purchases of $24.2 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements, $4.8 million payment to purchase the remaining 8% interest in our Vital River subsidiary, $4.0 million of dividends paid to noncontrolling interests, and $2.7 million of contingent consideration payments; partially offset by proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $25.6 million. We did not pay any dividends on our Common Stock in fiscal year 2023 and have no current plans to do so in the coming fiscal year. For fiscal year 2022, net cash used in financing activities reflected the net proceeds of $19.8 million on our Credit Facility and finance lease obligations. Included in the net proceeds are the following amounts: • Borrowings under our Credit Facility of $300 million, which were used primarily for the acquisition of Explora BioLabs; • Net repayments of $100 million on our Credit Facility throughout fiscal year 2022; • Payments of $2.0 billion partially offset by $1.9 billion of proceeds in connection with a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity repaying Euro loans and replacing the Euro loans with U.S. dollar denominated loans. A series of forward currency contracts were executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the U.S. dollar denominated loans. These proceeds and payments are presented as gross financing activities. Net cash used in financing activities also reflected treasury stock purchases of $38.7 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements, approximately $15 million payment to purchase an additional 10% interest in a subsidiary, $15.7 million payment to acquire the remaining 2% ownership interest in Cognate, $10.4 million of contingent consideration payments, and $5.3 million of dividends paid to noncontrolling interests; partially offset by proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $25.1 million. 51 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Financing and Market Risk We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates, which could affect our future results of operations and financial condition. We manage our exposure to these risks through our regular operating and financing activities. Amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility and our Senior Notes were as follows: The interest rates applicable to the Credit Facility are equal to (A) for revolving loans denominated in U.S. dollars, at the Company’s option, either the base rate (which is the higher of (1) the prime rate, (2) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, or (3) the one-month adjusted SOFR rate plus 1.0%) or the adjusted SOFR rate, (B) for revolving loans denominated in euros, the adjusted EURIBOR rate and (C) for revolving loans denominated in sterling, the daily simple SONIA rate, in each case, plus an interest rate margin based upon the Company’s leverage ratio. In March 2023 and in conjunction with the Credit Agreement second amendment (Second Amendment) the Company modified the variable rate on the Credit Facility from adjusted LIBOR to adjusted term SOFR. All outstanding U.S. dollar borrowings remained at adjusted LIBOR through their respective interest reset periods in April 2023 and were then set to term SOFR. Our 2028 Senior Notes have semi annual interest payments due May 1 and November 1. Our 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes have semi annual interest payments due March 15 and September 15. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2022, we entered into an interest rate swap with a notional amount of $500 million to manage interest rate fluctuation related to our floating rate borrowings under the Credit Facility, at a fixed rate of 4.70%. In March 2023 and in conjunction with the Second Amendment, we modified the variable rate on our interest rate swap from 1-month LIBOR to 1-month term SOFR. Effective with the modification we will pay a fixed rate of 4.65% on our swap maturing November 2, 2024. The transition did not have an impact on our hedge accounting or a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. Our off-balance sheet commitments related to our outstanding letters of credit as of December 30, 2023 were $21.6 million. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We operate on a global basis and have exposure to some foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. While the financial results of our global activities are reported in U.S. dollars, our foreign subsidiaries typically conduct their operations in their respective local currency. The principal functional currencies of our foreign subsidiaries are the Euro, British Pound, and Canadian Dollar. During fiscal year 2023, the most significant drivers of foreign currency translation adjustment we recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss) were the British Pound, Euro, Canadian Dollar, and Hungarian Forint. Fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rates of the countries in which we do business will affect our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. As the U.S. dollar strengthens against other currencies, the value of our non-U.S. revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities, and cash flows will generally decline when reported in U.S. dollars. The impact to net income as a result of a U.S. dollar strengthening will be partially mitigated by the value of non-U.S. expenses, which will decline when reported in U.S. dollars. As the U.S. dollar weakens versus other currencies, the value of the non-U.S. revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities, and cash flows will generally increase when reported in U.S. dollars. For fiscal year 2023, our revenue would have decreased by $126.7 million and our operating income would have decreased by $2.8 million, if the U.S. dollar exchange rate had strengthened by 1 0%, with all other variables held constant. We attempt to minimize this exposure by using certain financial instruments in accordance with our overall risk management and our hedge policy. We do not enter into speculative derivative agreements. We entered into foreign exchange forward contracts during fiscal year December 31, 2022 to limit our foreign currency exposure related to a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity under the Credit Facility. Refer to Note 11. Debt and Other Financing Arrangements to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 52 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details regarding these types of forward contracts. Repurchases of Common Stock During fiscal year 2023, we did not repurchase any shares under our authorized $1.3 billion stock repurchase program. As of December 30, 2023, we had $129.1 million remaining on the authorized stock repurchase program. Our stock-based compensation plans permit the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units, and performance share units in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. During fiscal year 2023, we acquired 0.1 million shares for $24.2 million through such netting. Commitments and Other Purchasing Arrangements We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. In addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay additional amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance, and other operating expenses. As of December 30, 2023, we had $757.4 million of operating leases inclusive of future minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, net of income from subleases as well as $39.9 million of financing leases. The expected payments of our operating and finance lease liabilities over the next twelve months are $70.6 million and $3.8 million, respectively as of December 30, 2023. In addition to the obligations on the balance sheet at December 30, 2023, we entered into unconditional purchase obligations in the ordinary course of business. Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable at any time without penalty. As of December 30, 2023, we had approximately $390 million of unconditional purchase obligations, the majority of which are expected to be settled during 2024. We invest in several venture capital funds that invest in start-up companies, primarily in the life sciences industry. Our total commitment to the funds as of December 30, 2023 was $212.9 million, of which we funded $145.2 million through December 30, 2023. Refer to Note 8. Venture Capital and Strategic Equity Investments to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. In connection with certain business and asset acquisitions, we agreed to make additional payments based upon the achievement of certain financial targets and other milestones in connection with the respective acquisition. As of December 30, 2023, we had approximately $98 million of gross contingent payments, of which $33 million are expected to be paid. We have certain federal and state income tax liabilities of $32.4 million relating to the one-time Transition Tax on unrepatriated earnings under the 2017 Tax Act. The Transition Tax will be paid, interest free, over an eight-year period through 2026.