********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Set forth below, elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We note that factors set forth below, individually or in the aggregate, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties and the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future documents we file with the SEC. Risk Factor Summary As noted above, we are subject to a number of risks that if realized could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated herein. Some of the more significant risks and uncertainties we face include those summarized below. The summary below is not exhaustive and is qualified by reference to the full set of risk factors set forth in this "Risk Factors" 16 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. section. Please carefully consider all of the information in this Form 10-K, including the full set of risks set forth in this "Risk Factors" section, and in our other filings with the SEC before making an investment decision regarding Charles River. Business and Operational Risks • Our business may be further adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. • We bear financial risk for contracts that may be terminated or reduced in scope, underpriced, subject to cost overruns or delayed. • Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions. • We have in the past experienced and in the future could experience unauthorized access into our information systems. • If we are not successful in executing our business strategy, including our failure in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may be adversely impacted. • Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates. • Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. • Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business. Industry Risk Factors • A reduction in demand or a reduction or delay in government funding of R&D may adversely affect our business. • Several of our product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply that, when interrupted, adversely affects our business. • Contract development and manufacturing services create a risk of liability, including risk that our products will not gain market acceptance and risk of failure to provide quality and timely service to customers. • Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to incur additional costs. • The outsourcing trend in non-clinical stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could impair our growth. • The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. • New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research, which could reduce demand for some of our products and services. • We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products. • Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices could reduce profitability. Legal & Regulatory Risk Factors • Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs. • Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, including potential healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide. • Failure to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws in various jurisdictions could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. • Failure to comply with U.S., state, local or international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. • Changes in U.S. and International Tax Law or material changes in our stock price could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate. 17 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. • Contract research services create a risk of liability. • The failure to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights and defend against assertions of third-parties to intellectual property rights could adversely affect us. • Our by-laws designate the state courts located in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable and may discourage lawsuits with respect to certain claims. Labor & Employment Risk Factors • We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees, which would harm our business. • If we are unable to attract, hire or retain key team members or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. • We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our team members. Financial and Accounting Risk Factors • Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. • Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely impact future results of operations. General Risk Factors • Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. • Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Risk Factors Business and Operational Risks The COVID-19 pandemic is dynamic and expanding. The continuation of this outbreak may have, and the emergence of other epidemic or pandemic crises could have, material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a strain of novel coronavirus disease, COVID-19, a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic is dynamic and expanding, and its ultimate scope, duration and effects are uncertain. This pandemic has and continues to result in, and any future epidemic or pandemic crises may potentially result in, direct and indirect adverse effects on our industry and customers, which in turn has (with respect to COVID-19) and may (with respect to future epidemics or crises) impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us. Effects of the current pandemic have included, or may in the future include, among others: • deterioration of worldwide, regional or national economic conditions and activity, which adversely affects global demand for our products and services; • disruptions to our operations as a result of the potential health impact on our employees and crew, and on the workforces of our customers and business partners; • temporary and/or partial closures of our facilities or the facilities of our customers (including academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations) and third-party service providers; • interruption of the operations of global supply chains and those of our suppliers; • constraints on international routes for shipment of products and materials impact timelines to support client demands; • disruptions to our business from, or additional costs related to, new regulations, directives or practices implemented in response to the pandemic, such as travel restrictions, shelter in place/stay in place/work from home orders, increased inspection regimes, hygiene measures (such as quarantining and physical distancing) or increased implementation of remote working arrangements; • reduced cash flows and financial condition, including potential liquidity constraints; 18 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. • reduced access to capital, including the ability to refinance any existing obligations, as a result of any credit tightening generally or due to declines in global financial markets, including to the prices of publicly-traded equity securities of us, our peers and of listed companies generally; • deterioration in the financial condition and prospects of our customers or attempts by customers, suppliers or service providers to invoke force majeure contractual clauses, or the legal doctrines of impossibility or impracticability, or other similar doctrines, as a result of delays or other disruptions; • delays in the commencement of, or the suspension or cancellation of, client studies; and • the effects described elsewhere in these Risk Factors. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices, including but not limited to health management of employees, customers and suppliers, management of production inventory, supply chain risk management, compensation practices and capital expenditure planning. We have formed a tiered structure of designated COVID-19 crisis management teams throughout our organization to identify, implement and monitor such actions as required by the dynamic exigencies arising from the pandemic. Such measures and others may not be sufficient to mitigate all the risks posed by COVID-19, and our ability to perform critical functions could be materially adversely affected. Although disruption and effects from the COVID-19 pandemic may be temporary, given the dynamic nature of these circumstances and the worldwide nature of our business and operations, the duration of any business disruption and the related financial impact to us cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We bear financial risk for contracts that may be terminated or reduced in scope, underpriced, subject to cost overruns or delayed. Many of our agreements, including those which underlie our strategic relationships with some of our more significant clients, provide for termination or reduction in scope with little or no notice. In addition, we sell our products and services to our competitors, and similarly they sell products and services to us. For instance, we have historically entered into, and currently are party to, contracts with certain of our competitors to distribute specialty research models in locations where our competitors may not have distribution capabilities. Our counterparties (including our clients who are competitors) may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons including: the invocation of force majeure clauses, or the legal doctrines of impossibility or impracticability, or other similar legal doctrines, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; the products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; unexpected or undesired study results; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; a client’s decision to forego or terminate a particular study; our competitors’ establishment of alternative distribution channels; dissatisfaction with our performance under the agreement; the loss of funding for the particular research study; or general convenience/counterparty preference. If a counterparty terminates a contract with us, we are typically entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases, termination fees; however, in many cases we are not entitled to any termination fees in the event of a termination. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate delay, cancellation or conclusion of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business and, therefore, may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and, accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. Such underpricing or significant cost overruns could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions. In recent years, we have been updating and consolidating systems and automating processes in many parts of our business with a variety of systems, including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses. The expansion and ongoing implementation of operational systems may occur at a future date based on value to the business. In general, the process of planning and preparing for these types of integrated, wide-scale implementations is extremely complex and we are required to address a number of challenges, including information security assessment and remediation, data conversion, network and system cutover, user training, and integration with existing processes or systems. Incongruities in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including inconsistent practices, delayed report and/or data shipments, missed sales, billing errors and accounting errors. 19 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. We have in the past experienced and in the future could experience unauthorized access into our information systems. We operate large and complex information systems that contain significant amounts of client data. As a routine element of our business, we collect, analyze and retain substantial amounts of data pertaining to the non-clinical studies we conduct for our clients. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such information systems to steal data or disrupt the systems or for financial gain. Like other companies, we have on occasion experienced, and will continue to experience, threats and incursions to our data and systems, including malicious software and viruses, phishing, business email compromise and social engineering attacks or other cyber-attacks. The number and complexity of these threats continue to increase over time. While we have taken measures to protect our information systems from intrusion, in March 2019, we detected evidence that an unauthorized third party, who we believe was well resourced and highly sophisticated, accessed certain of our information systems and copied data. We worked with a leading cyber security firm to assist in our investigation and coordinated with law enforcement authorities. Our investigation indicated that the affected information included client information. In December 2019, we disclosed that we had completed our remediation of the incident identified in March of 2019. While we have implemented additional security safeguards, including: • remediation of the March 2019 incident; • cooperation with U.S. Federal authorities’ investigation into the incident and established an ongoing relationship to better understand the ever-changing nature of cybersecurity related threats; • additional visibility into our network and environment; • additional monitoring of our environment; • active threat hunting in our environment; • enhanced protection for externally facing web applications; • the addition of Multi-Factor Authentication to ingress points; • the addition of denial of service attack protection; and • increased network segmentation, such efforts may not be successful, in which case we could suffer significant harm. Further, we are at risk of being targeted, and we have in the past been victim to, business email compromise fraud, which results in payments being made to illegitimate bank accounts. Although these instances have not resulted in our incurring material losses, if similar instances occur in the future, we may incur such losses. Our contracts with our clients typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from the studies we conduct. In the event the confidentiality of such information is compromised, whether by unauthorized access or other breaches, we could be exposed to significant harm, including termination of customer contracts, damage to our customer relationships, damage to our reputation and potential legal claims from customers, employees and other parties. In addition, we may face investigations by government regulators and agencies as a result of a breach. If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may be adversely impacted. During the last two decades, we have steadily expanded our business through numerous acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of HemaCare, Cellero, Distributed Bio, Retrogenix, Cognate BioServices, Inc. (Cognate), and Vigene Biosciences, Inc. (Vigene). However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions. Acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include: • difficulties in achieving business and financial success (due to unplanned events such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the long-term economic impact of the pandemic); • difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products, information technology platforms, technologies or pre-existing relationships with our clients, distributors and suppliers; 20 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. • challenges with developing and operating new businesses, including those that are materially different from our existing businesses, which may require the development or acquisition of new internal capabilities and expertise; • potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnifications we may obtain from sellers or any insurance we may acquire in connection with transactions; • loss of key employees; • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • a more expansive regulatory environment; • dilution to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilution to the percentage of ownership of our existing shareholders; • differences in foreign business practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; • new technologies and products may be developed that cause businesses or assets we acquire to become less valuable; and • disagreements or disputes with prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service or product that may result in litigation expenses and diversion of our management’s attention. If an acquired business, technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some of the same risks exist when we decide to sell a business, site, product line or service offering. We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our business to determine whether any divestitures are appropriate. Such divestitures could involve additional risks, other than those listed above, including: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel, the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture, and write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets and which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms, and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business, site or product line or service offering and, as a result, we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the divestiture. Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability. Our strategy is to deliver a comprehensive and integrated portfolio of drug discovery and non-clinical development products, services and solutions to support our clients’ discovery and early-stage drug research, process development, scale up and manufacturing efforts, and enable them to bring new and improved therapies to market faster and more cost effectively. Separately, through our various Manufacturing segment businesses, we aim to be the premier provider of products and services that ensure our clients produce and release their products safely. If we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy, this could negatively impact our future results of operations and market capitalization. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve our internal growth, including strengthening our presence in selected geographic markets through organic growth and strategic acquisitions and expanding our service offerings, including our expansion into the CDMO business. We may not be able to successfully implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the expected growth of our business. Furthermore, our strategy assumes a certain degree of capital and capacity growth development. Factors such as insufficient capital, inflation, supply chain interruptions, inadequate forecasting, increases in construction material costs, or labor shortages could interfere with the successful execution of our strategy and our ability to timely build infrastructure to satisfy capacity needs and support business growth. For additional discussion of our business strategy, please see the section above entitled “Our Strategy.” 21 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A significant part of our revenue is derived from operations outside the U.S. We expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could materially adversely impact our results. Foreign currencies we receive for sales and in which we record expenses outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar, resulting in a reduction in the amount of revenue and cash flow (and an increase in the amount of expenses) that we recognize and causing fluctuations in reported financial results. We also carry foreign currency exposure associated with differences between where we conduct business. For example, certain contracts are frequently denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results from the currency translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, as well as from the exposure associated with transactions of our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency other than the respective subsidiary’s functional currency. While our financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency. During consolidation, these results are translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries report could cause significant fluctuations in our reported results. Moreover, as exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results may differ materially from our expectations. Adjustments resulting from financial statement translations are included as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Other risks associated with our international business include: • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate, including implications of the COVID-19 pandemic; • potentially negative consequences from changes in U.S. and/or foreign tax laws, or interpretations and enforcement thereof, notably tax regulations issued and to-be-issued with respect to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (2017 Tax Act) and the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directives I and II, and the creation of the Joint Chiefs of Global Tax Enforcement; • potential international conflicts, including terrorist acts; • exchange controls, adverse tax consequences and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the U.S.; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of COVID-19 pandemic related suspensions of operations, work stoppages and/or strikes, as well as violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic); • the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including those relating to the COVID-19 pandemic); • unfavorable labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions (including those relating to the COVID-19 pandemic); • longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19); • potentially reduced protection of our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries; and • compliance with export controls, import requirements and other trade regulations, including those relating to certain products of which there is limited supply. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, as mentioned above, we are subject to compliance with the FCPA, which prohibits companies and their third-party intermediaries from offering or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Likewise, we are also subject to other international anti-bribery laws such as the UK Bribery Act which prohibit companies and their third-party intermediaries from offering or making improper payments to commercial parties. 22 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. While our employees and third-party intermediaries are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, and have been (and will continue to be) affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We depend on our customers continued demand and solvency at our facilities for the continued operation of our business. While we maintain disaster recovery plans, they might not adequately protect us. Despite any precautions we take for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attack, a pandemic (including the COVID-19 pandemic), epidemic or outbreak of a disease, hurricanes, tornadoes, fire, floods and ice and snow storms, could result in damage to and closure of our or our customers’ facilities or the infrastructure on which such facilities rely. As described herein, the COVID-19 pandemic has already, and may continue to, disrupt our operations, though the full extent of such impact remains uncertain. Such disruptions could include significant delays in the shipments of our products, reduce our capacity to provide services, adversely impact unique manufacturing capabilities, result in our customers’ inability to pay for our products or services and, ultimately, result in the loss of revenue and clients. Although we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our customers could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business. The products and services that we provide our clients are essential to the drug discovery, development and manufacturing processes, and a significant amount are mandated by law. Notwithstanding, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, including shareholder proposals and attempts to disrupt air carriers from transporting research models, impacting the industry. This has included periodic demonstrations near facilities operated by us and at our annual meetings, as well as shareholder proposals we received for some of our past Annual Meetings of Shareholders. Furthermore, the habitat of certain animals used for research purposes may be located in or near certain environmentally protected areas or conservation areas. Activities conducted by us or any of our agents within these areas may be legally challenged and result in similar negative attention and action from environmental protection activists, including advocacy for the expansion of environmental restrictions applicable to such areas. Any negative attention, threats, acts of vandalism or legal action directed against our animal research or procurement activities, or our third-party service providers, such as our airline carriers or suppliers, or that restrict our or their ability to access protected or conservation areas, could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. Industry Risk Factors A reduction in demand may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in drug R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories or private foundations. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries (including the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19) also affect their R&D budgets and, consequentially, our business as well. Our clients include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on molecules in the non-clinical phases of R&D (and in particular discovery and safety assessment) and to outsource the products and services we provide. Furthermore, our clients (particularly larger biopharmaceutical companies) continue to search for ways to maximize the return on their investments with a focus on lowering R&D costs per drug candidate. Fluctuations in the expenditure amounts in each phase of the R&D budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. R&D budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities (including available resources of our biotechnology clients, particularly those that are cash-negative, who may be highly focused on rationing their liquid assets in a challenging funding environment), general economic conditions, institutional budgetary policies and the impact of government regulations, including potential drug pricing legislation. Available funding for biotechnology clients in particular may be affected by the capital markets, investment objectives of venture capital investors and priorities of biopharmaceutical industry sponsors. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently 23 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. been influencing R&D budgets at our clients, please see the sections entitled “Our Strategy” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Further, our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells operations are structured to produce research materials, such as blood products based on customers’ existing demand, and perceived potential changes in demand, for these products. Sudden or unexpected changes in demand for these products could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Increasing demand could harm relationships with customers if we are unable to alter production capacity, or purchase products from other suppliers, to fill orders adequately. This could result in a decrease in overall revenue and profits. The impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19 caused us to temporarily suspend blood donations in early 2020, which have since resumed, at our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells facilities, further limiting our ability to respond to changes in demand. Lack of access to sufficient capital, or lack of adequate time to properly (or the failure to adequately) respond to changes in demand, could result in declining revenue and profits, as customers transfer to other suppliers. Furthermore, we will have significant business which will materially depend upon the regulatory approval of the products it will manufacture for its contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) customers. As such, if these customers experience a delay in, or failure to receive, approval for any of their product candidates or fail to maintain regulatory approval of their products that we develop or manufacture, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if the Food and Drug Administration or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve of our facilities for the manufacture of a customer product, observes significant deficiencies or violations at its facilities or withdraws such approval in the future, our customers may choose to identify alternative manufacturing facilities and/or relationships, which could significantly impact our CDMO capacity and capabilities and results of operations therefrom. A reduction or delay in government funding of R&D may adversely affect our business. A portion of revenue, predominantly in our RMS segment, is derived from clients at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies, which can be difficult to forecast. We also sell directly to the NIH and these other agencies. Government funding of R&D is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our revenue may be adversely affected if our clients delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals, included reduced allocations to government agencies that fund R&D activities. Government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund R&D activities, or NIH funding may not be directed towards projects and studies that require the use of our products and services, both of which could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Furthermore, changes in government budgetary priorities as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19 could reduce government funding of R&D that is unrelated to the disease, which could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Several of our product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply that, when interrupted, adversely affects our business. We depend on a limited international source of supply for certain products, such as large research models. Disruptions to their continued supply from time to time arise from health problems (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the spread of other diseases), export or import laws/restrictions or embargoes, tariffs, inflation, international trade regulations, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, increased competition among suppliers for models, disruptions to the air travel system, activist campaigns, commercial disputes, supplier insolvency, geopolitical disputes, measures intended to slow the spread of COVID-19 or other ordinary course or unanticipated events. Any disruption of supply could materially harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial terms. For example, as with other industry participants, certain of our activities rely on a sufficient supply of large research models, which has seen increasing demand as compared to supply in 2020 and 2021 and into 2022 due to a variety of factors. First, the surge of research relating to COVID-19 has increased short term demand. Second, China supplies a significant portion of certain critical large research models, which have been subject to geographic export restrictions applicable to many animal species since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we continue to take steps to find alternative supply channels and lock in supply with preferred sources through multi-year and/or minimum commitment contracts, such mitigating efforts may not prove successful at ensuring a steady and timely supply or may require (and in the past have required) us to pay significantly higher prices for such products during periods of global shortage or restrictions on the transportation of products. Limited global supply or regional restrictions on transportation for certain products may require us to source products from non-preferred vendors, which may not be successful. In addition, reductions in global air transportation routes may result in sourcing alternative transportation at an increased cost. An inability to obtain a sufficient and timely supply of critical products could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. Further, portions of our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells business depends on the availability of appropriate donors. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19, we temporarily 24 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. suspended blood donations at one of our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells facilities in early 2020, which have since resumed. Regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply (including COVID-19) could also result in a decreased pool of potential donors or integrity of inventory. Due to any pandemic, epidemic or outbreak in one or more regions in which our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells business operates, the portion of the donor pool that typically donates may be unable, or unwilling to donate, thereby significantly reducing the availability of research products upon which we rely. In addition, health and healthcare concerns among the public may result in a decline in donations. If donor participation declines, we may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to maintain profitability of the Research and GMP-Compliant Cells business. Our CDMO services establish us as a premier scientific partner for cell and gene therapy development, testing, and manufacturing; enable us to provide clients with an integrated solution from basic research and discovery through cGMP production; enable us to drive efficiency and accelerate clients’ speed-to-market by integrating manufacturing and the required testing; and enable our clients to seamlessly conduct analytical testing, process development, and manufacturing for advanced modalities with the same scientific partner Furthermore, our CDMO operations will require various raw materials supplied primarily by third parties. We or our customers will specify the raw materials and other items required to manufacture our product and, in some cases, the customers will specify the suppliers from whom we must purchase these raw materials. In certain instances, the raw materials and other items may only be supplied by a limited number of suppliers or in limited quantities. If third-party suppliers do not supply raw materials or other items on a timely basis, it may cause a manufacturing run to be delayed or canceled which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, third-party suppliers may fail to provide us with raw materials and other items that meet the qualifications and specifications required by us or our customers. If third-party suppliers are not able to provide us with raw materials that meet our or our customers’ specifications on a timely basis, we may be unable to manufacture our product or it could prevent us from delivering products to our customers within required time frames. Any such delay in delivering our products may create liability for us to our customers for breach of contract or cause us to experience order cancellations and loss of customers. In the event that we manufacture products with components or raw materials that do not meet our qualifications and specifications or those of our customers or governmental or regulatory authorities, we may become subject to product liability claims caused by defective raw materials or components from a third-party supplier or from a customer. Our CDMO business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if the products we manufacture for our customers do not gain market acceptance. If the products we manufacture for our customers do not gain market acceptance or production volumes of key products that we manufacture for our customers decline, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. For our CDMO business, we will depend on, and have no control over, market acceptance for the products that we will manufacture for our customers. Consumer demand for these products could be adversely affected by, among other things, delays in securing regulatory approvals, the emergence of competing or alternative products, including generic drugs, the emergence of new safety data for such products, the loss of patent and other intellectual property rights protection, reductions in private and government payment product subsidies or changing product marketing strategies. Manufacturing services are highly complex and failure to provide quality and timely services to our CDMO customers, could adversely impact our business. The CDMO services we offer can be highly complex, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. A failure of our quality control systems in our facilities could cause problems in connection with facility operations for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, viral contamination, failure to follow specific manufacturing instructions, protocols and standard operating procedures, problems with raw materials or environmental factors. Such issues could affect production of a single manufacturing run or manufacturing campaigns, requiring the destruction of products, or could halt manufacturing operations altogether. In addition, any failure to meet required quality standards may result in our failure to timely deliver products to our customers which, in turn, could damage our reputation for quality and service. Any such incident could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, reimbursement to customers for lost drug substances, damage to and possibly termination of customer relationships, time and expense spent investigating and remediating the cause and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other manufacturing runs. In addition, such issues could subject us to litigation, the cost of which could be significant. Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to incur additional costs. Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of certain infectious agents, such as certain viruses, parasites, and bacteria, because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production facilities and certain 25 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. service operations could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services businesses, including GEMS, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales. There also exists a risk that contaminations from models that we produce may affect our client’s facilities, with similar impact to them for which we could be liable for damages. In some cases, we may produce or import animals carrying infectious agents capable of causing disease in humans; and in the case of such a contamination or undiagnosed infection, there could be a possible risk of human exposure and infection and liability for damages to infected persons. We are also subject to similar contamination risks with respect to our large research models. While some of these models are owned by us and maintained at our facilities, others are reserved for us and maintained at sites operated by the original provider. Accordingly, risk of contamination may be outside of our control, and we depend on the practices and protocols of third parties to ensure a contamination-free environment. A contamination may require extended CDC quarantine with subsequent reduced sales as a result of lost client orders, as well as the potential for complete inventory loss and disinfection of the affected quarantine rooms. Furthermore, while we often negotiate for contractual risk indemnification, the third party may refuse to fulfill its indemnification obligation or may be unable to as a result of insolvency or other impediments. Contaminations are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. If they occur, contaminations typically require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting and restarting production or services. Such clean-ups result in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost client orders and potentially credits for prior shipments. In addition to microbiological contaminations, the potential for genetic contaminations also exists and may require us to restart the applicable colonies, and would result in inventory loss, additional start-up costs and possibly reduced sales. Contaminations also expose us to risks that clients will request compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. Further, many of our operations are comprised of complex mechanical systems that are subject to periodic failure, including aging fatigue. Such failures are unpredictable, and while we have made significant capital expenditures designed to create redundancy within these mechanical systems, strengthen our biosecurity, improve our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations, and replace impaired systems and equipment in advance of such events, failures and/or contaminations may still occur. The outsourcing trend in non-clinical (discovery and safety assessment) stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could impair our growth. Over the past decade, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have generally increased their outsourcing of non-clinical research support activities, such as discovery and safety assessment. While many industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue to increase for the next several years (although with different growth rates for different phases of drug discovery and development), decreases in such outsourcing may result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of any one or more of our service lines and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently influenced outsourcing demand from our clients, please see the section entitled “Our Strategy” above. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete for business with other CROs and blood product and therapeutic services companies, other CDMOs, as well as internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients, who may have greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals for outsourced services. We compete on a variety of factors, including: • reputation for on-time quality performance; • reputation for regulatory compliance; • expertise and experience in multiple specialized areas; • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the drug discovery and development spectrum; • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the manufacturing support spectrum; • ability to provide flexible and customized solutions to support our clients’ drug discovery, non-clinical development, and manufacturing support needs; • broad geographic availability (with consistent quality); • price/value, spend and flexibility; 26 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. • technological and scientific expertise and efficient drug development processes; • quality of facilities; • financial stability; • size; • ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner; and • accessibility of client data through secure portals. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price and other concessions that could adversely affect our operating results. The drug discovery and development services industry has continued to see a trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies, which are targets for each other and for large pharmaceutical companies. If this trend continues, it is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies and CROs generally, with respect to both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, small, specialized entities considering entering the CRO industries will continue to find lower barriers to entry, and private equity firms may determine that there are opportunities to acquire and consolidate these companies, thus further increasing possible competition. Our competition in the CDMO market includes full-service contract manufacturers and large pharmaceutical companies offering third-party manufacturing services to fill their excess capacity. Also, large pharmaceutical companies have been seeking to divest portions of their manufacturing capacity, and any such divested businesses may compete with us in the future. Furthermore, many of our CDMO competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, technical or other resources than we do. Moreover, additional competition may emerge, particularly in lower-cost jurisdictions such as India and China, which could, among other things, result in a decrease in the fees paid for our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. More generally, our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. In the aggregate, these competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our technologies, services or products and could adversely affect our financial results. New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research, which could reduce demand for some of our products and services. The scientific community continues to develop cell-based and animal model methods designed to increase the translation from findings in early-stage discovery and pre-clinical studies to human studies, and vice-versa. As these methods continue to advance, they may supplement, and in some cases possibly replace or supplant methodologies that are currently in use, such as the use of traditional living animals in biomedical research. In addition, technological improvements, such as imaging and other translational biomarker technologies, could impact demand for animal research models. Further, some companies are developing recombinantly produced versions of LAL, which has been historically derived from live animals. It is our strategy to explore new technologies to refine and potentially reduce the use of animal models and animal derived products as new in vitro and in silico methods become available and synthetically-manufactured products become validated. However, we may not be able to develop new products, inputs or processes effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales. Lastly, other companies or entities may develop research models, inputs or processes with characteristics different from those that we produce, and that may be viewed as more desirable by some of our clients. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products. We continue to seek opportunities to develop and market new services and products that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. We believe our ability to in-license new technologies from third parties is critical to our ability to continue to meet the needs of our clients. Our ability to gain access to such new technologies depends, in part, on our ability to convince innovators that we can successfully develop and commercialize their inventions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new technologies of interest to our clients. Even if we are able to identify these opportunities, negotiating license agreements on commercially acceptable terms may prove difficult. In addition, our ongoing internal research and development efforts may not always yield offerings that meet client demand. If we are unable to develop new services and products and/or create demand for those newly developed services and products, our future business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. 27 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices in certain of our businesses could reduce profitability. The cost of collecting, processing and testing blood products has risen significantly in recent years and will likely continue to increase given stringency of demands on raw materials for advanced cell products. These cost increases are related to new and improved testing procedures, increased regulatory requirements related to blood safety, and higher staff and supply costs related to collecting and processing blood products. Competition and fixed price contracts may limit our ability to maintain existing operating margins. Some competitors have greater resources than us to sustain periods of marginally profitable or unprofitable sales. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices may reduce profitability and may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Legal & Regulatory Risk Factors Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission on behalf of our clients to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, the issuance of a notice of objectionable observations or a warning letter from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation affecting data integrity by us for GLP or cGMP requirements that are not addressed to the regulatory monitoring authorities’ satisfaction could materially and adversely affect us. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines or the temporary closure of our facilities. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. In recent years FDA has issued guidance that now requires submissions to be presented in a format that conforms with the FDA’s SEND (Standardization for Exchange of Nonclinical Data) standards that apply to our clients’ NDA and IND submissions and require us to provide electronic data in specific formats that will allow for more efficient, higher quality regulatory reviews. Accordingly, our clients expect us to timely deliver their nonclinical data compliant with SEND. Notwithstanding, some of these standards require additional operating and capital expenses that will impact not only us and our industry competitors, but clients in the biomedical research community. Non-compliance with any of these expectations could lead to official action by a government authority, damage to our reputation and a potential loss of business. In addition, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of research animals for research purposes continue to evolve. Similarly, guidance has been and continues to be developed for other areas that impact the biomedical research community on both a national and international basis including transportation, mandated contingency planning, euthanasia guidance, import and export requirements of biological materials, health monitoring requirements and the use of disinfectants. Our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells business is subject to extensive and complex regulation by federal, state and local governments in the U.S. and in the other countries in which it operates. This business requires us to obtain many licenses, permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates and other types of governmental permissions and to comply with various regulations in every jurisdiction in which we operate. Federal, state and local regulations change often, and new regulations are frequently adopted. Changes in the regulations could require us to change the way in which we operate our business and the cost of compliance with new or changed regulations could be significant. Our donor collection centers are registered with the FDA and the FDA periodically conducts inspections of those facilities and operations. At the conclusion of each inspection, the FDA provides us with a list of observations of regulatory issues discovered during the inspection that could result in additional regulatory action. Failure to comply with the regulations of the FDA could result in sanctions and/or remedies and have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, including potential healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world strictly regulate the drug development process. Our business involves helping our customers navigate these regulatory processes. Accordingly, many regulations, and often new regulations, are expected to result in higher regulatory standards and often additional revenues for companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of streamlined or expedited drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. For example, in February 2022, the FDA released guidance that is intended to remain in effect through the duration of the COVID-19 public health emergency. The guidance provides biopharmaceutical companies with alternate options for study designs, large animal model selection, and additional considerations for drug development paradigms. 28 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Although we believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable national, regional and local laws, as well as other accepted guidance used by oversight bodies (including the USDA, the standards set by the International Air Transport Association, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, The Centers for Disease Control, the Department of Transportation, the Department of State, the office of Laboratory Animal Welfare of NIH, the Drug Enforcement Agency, as well as numerous other oversight agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate), failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety assessment procedures that utilize research animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), certain segments of our business could be materially adversely affected. Implementation of healthcare reform legislation may have certain benefits, but also may contain costs that could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. Furthermore, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for pharmaceutical products, our clients may spend less or reduce their growth in spending on R&D. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level, or in laws and regulations in effect in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or have business relationships, may significantly impact our domestic and foreign businesses and/or those of our clients. Furthermore, modifications to international trade policy, public company reporting requirements, environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement may have a materially adverse impact on us, our suppliers or our clients. We are required to comply with stringent, complex and evolving laws, rules, regulations and standards in many jurisdictions, as well as contractual obligations, relating to data privacy and security. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with stringent, complex and evolving laws, rules, regulations and standards in many jurisdictions, as well as contractual obligations, relating to data privacy and security. Ensuring that our collection, use, transfer, storage and other processing of personal information complies with such requirements can increase operating costs, impact the development of new products or services, and reduce operational efficiency. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data privacy and security legal framework with which we must comply. For example, we are required to comply with the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which became effective on May 25, 2018 and imposes stringent obligations regarding the collection, control, use, sharing, disclosure and other processing of personal data. Additionally, following the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the EU, we also are subject to the U.K. General Data Protection Regulation (“U.K. GDPR”) (i.e., a version of the GDPR as implemented into U.K. law). Failure to comply with the GDPR or the U.K. GDPR can result in significant fines and other liability, including, under the GDPR, fines of up to EUR 20 million (or GBP 17.5 million under the U.K. GDPR) or four percent (4%) of global revenue, whichever is greater. The cost of compliance, and the potential for fines and penalties for non-compliance, with GDPR and U.K. GDPR may have a significant adverse effect on our business and operations. Recent legal developments in the European Economic Area (EEA), including recent rulings from the Court of Justice of the European Union and from various EU member state data protection authorities, have created complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EEA to the United States and other so-called third countries outside the EEA. Similar complexities and uncertainties also apply to transfers from the United Kingdom to third countries. While we have taken steps to mitigate the impact on us, such as implementing the European Commission’s standard contractual clauses (SCCs), the efficacy and longevity of these mechanisms remains uncertain. Moreover, on June 4, 2021, the European Commission adopted new SCCs, which impose on companies additional obligations relating to personal data transfers out of the EEA, including the obligation to update internal privacy practices, conduct transfer impact assessments and, as required, to implement additional security measures. The new SCCs may increase the legal risks and liabilities under EU laws associated with cross-border data transfers, and result in material increased compliance and operational costs. If we are otherwise unable to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services, the geographical location or segregation of our relevant systems and operations, and could adversely affect our financial results. While we have implemented new controls and procedures to comply with the requirements of the GDPR, U.K. GDPR and the data privacy and security laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate, such procedures and controls may not be effective in ensuring compliance or preventing unauthorized transfers of personal data. Moreover, on August 20, 2021, China adopted the Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL), which went into effect on November 1, 2021 and established new national privacy requirements relating to the collection, processing, transfer and security of personal information in or from China. The PIPL imposes significant potential penalties for violations, including fines of up to RMB 50 million or five percent (5%) of annual turnover, civil and criminal liability, and potential revocation of 29 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. business licensure. Given the newness of the PIPL, substantial uncertainty exists with respect to its application and enforcement. In the event that the PIPL requires us to store data in China, or limits our ability to transfer data across borders, we may experience increased costs and business inefficiencies. Fines, corrective actions, or other penalties asserted due to alleged noncompliance may impose additional financial or operational costs, limit our ability to attract and retain local talent, or limit our ability to do business in China. In the United States, there are numerous federal and state data privacy and security laws, rules, and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, retention, security, transfer, storage and other processing of personal information, including federal and state data privacy laws, data breach notification laws, and data disposal laws. For example, at the federal level, we are subject the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, which has the authority to regulate and enforce against unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce, including acts and practices with respect to data privacy and security. If our public statements about our use, collection, disclosure and other processing of personal information, whether made through our privacy policies, information provided on our website, press statements or otherwise, are alleged to be deceptive, unfair or misrepresentative of our actual practices, we may be subject to potential government or legal investigation or action, including by the Federal Trade Commission or applicable state attorneys general. If we are found to have violated applicable laws or regulations, we may also be subject to penalties, fines, damages, injunctions or other outcomes that may adversely affect our operations and financial results. The United States Congress also has considered, and may in the future consider, various proposals from time to time for comprehensive federal data privacy legislation to which we may become subject if passed and which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. At the state level, we are subject to laws and regulations like the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA creates transparency requirements for companies and grants California residents various new rights with regard to their personal information. Failure to comply with the CCPA may result in, among other things, significant civil penalties and injunctive relief, or potential statutory or actual damages. The CCPA also provides private right of action for data breaches that result in the loss of personal information, which is expected to increase data breach litigation. In addition, in November 2020, California voters approved the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) which modifies the CCPA and will impose additional data protection obligations on companies doing business in California, including granting additional privacy rights to consumers and creating a new state privacy regulator to implement and enforce the CCPA and CPRA. While the CPRA will not take effect in most material respects until January 1, 2023, it may impact our business activities and require compliance costs that adversely affect business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. Numerous other states, including Virginia and Colorado, have also enacted or are in the process of enacting or considering comprehensive state-level data privacy and security laws, rules and regulations. These state statutes, and other similar state or federal laws that may be enacted in the future, may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies, incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses, and otherwise suffer adverse impacts on our business. Additionally, while collecting research products from donors, we may collect, use, disclose, maintain and transmit donor information in ways that will be subject to many of the numerous state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transmission or confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. We have made changes to, and investments in, our business practices and will continue to monitor developments and make appropriate changes to help attain compliance with these evolving and complex laws, rules, regulations and standards. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with any such laws, rules, regulations, standards or contractual obligations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, significant fines, civil or criminal penalties, costly litigation (including class actions), government investigation or inquiries, enforcement actions, claims, proceedings, judgements, awards, penalties, sanctions or other adverse impacts that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with U.S., state, local or international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including regulations issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Environmental Protection Agency, Nuclear Regulatory Agency and Department of Transportation, could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. We are subject to licensing and regulation under laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees and protecting employees from the spread of COVID-19. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other environmental laws may have similar consequences to us or our supplier, or result in liability to us. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on us that may be costly. 30 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Changes in U.S. and International Tax Law or material changes in our stock price could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate. In 2017, significant U.S. tax law changes from the 2017 Tax Act went into effect. There remain certain provisions enacted as part of the 2017 Tax Act which still require clarification and guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Treasury Department. In 2021, U.S. proposed legislation continued to be introduced. If enacted, these or other changes in US. tax laws could impact our profits, effective tax rate and cash flows. Additionally, the OECD, the European Commission (EC) and individual taxing jurisdictions have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational enterprises. In 2015, the OECD released its final reports for reform of the international tax system, meant to address concerns regarding base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). This initiative resulted in proposed and enacted changes to tax laws in various countries including France, Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands and the U.K. In addition, the OECD and EC and individual countries are examining how taxing rights should be allocated among countries considering the tax challenges arising from the digitalization of the economy. The proposed solutions are designed to ensure that multinational enterprises will be subject to a minimum tax rate of 15% and will re-allocate profit of the largest and most profitable multinational enterprises worldwide. Future changes to tax laws or interpretation of tax laws resulting from enacted laws could increase our effective tax rate, which would affect our profitability. We receive substantial tax credits and incentives in Canada, from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments, China, France, the U.K., and the U.S. Any reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits and incentives or increase to tax rates due to tax law changes or outcomes of tax controversies could have a material adverse effect on our profits, cash flows and effective tax rate. Further, we generally receive a tax deduction upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options by employees, or the vesting of restricted stock and performance share units held by employees. The stock price, timing and amount of the vesting and exercising of share-based compensation could adversely impact our effective tax rate. Contract research services create a risk of liability. As a CRO, we face a range of potential liabilities, which may include: • risks associated with errors or omissions in reporting of study detail in non-clinical studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may undermine the usefulness of a study or data from the study, or which may potentially advance studies absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing; • risks associated with our possible failure to properly care for our clients’ property, such as research models and samples, study compounds, records, work in progress, other archived materials or goods and materials in transit, while in our possession; • risks that models in our breeding facilities or in facilities that we manage may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to them or humans, despite preventive measures for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; • risks that we may have errors and omissions and/or product liabilities related to our products designed to conduct lot release testing of medical devices, injectable drugs, food, beverages, and home and beauty products (primarily through our Microbial Solutions business), or in the testing of biologics and other services performed by our Biologics business, which could result in us or our clients failing to identify unsafe or contaminated materials; • risk of transmitting dangerous infectious diseases, as a result of the failure of our screening and testing processes, or new pathogens that may be undetected by such processes; and • the acquisitions of Cognate and Vigene in 2021 have expanded our business into the CDMO market, which entails additional risks of liability, including potential product liability claims, errors and omissions claims in connection with our services and potential liability under indemnification agreements between us and our officers and directors. While we attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety of methods, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks. In our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities through our regimen of animal testing, quarantine procedures and veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to control the exposure of animal related disease or infections. In our Research and GMP-Compliant Cells, DSA, and Manufacturing businesses, we attempt to reduce these risks through the negotiation of contractual risk transfer provisions, such as indemnification provisions, limitations of liability, and client insurance requirements. 31 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Contractual risk transfer indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim that is outside any contractual indemnification provision, or if a party does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or the damage is beyond the scope or level of insurance coverage. We also often contractually indemnify our clients (subject to a limitation of liability), similar to the way they indemnify us, and we may be materially adversely affected if we have to fulfill our indemnity obligations. Furthermore, either we or a party required to indemnify us may not be able to maintain such insurance coverage (either at all or on terms acceptable to us). The failure to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights and defend against assertions of third-parties to intellectual property rights could adversely affect us. Many of our services, products and processes rely on intellectual property. In some cases, that intellectual property is owned by another party and licensed to us, sometimes exclusively. To protect our intellectual property rights, we primarily rely upon trade secret, patent, and copyright law, as well as contractual provisions relating to intellectual property ownership and control and confidentiality. Laws relating to intellectual property rights and contracts vary from country to country and are subject to change at any time. In addition, the agreements upon which we rely to protect our intellectual property might be breached, or might not be fully enforceable. Our intellectual property rights might not prevent our competitors from independently developing intellectual property that is similar to or duplicative of ours. Also, enforcement of our intellectual property rights may also require substantial investments of time, money, and oversight, and may not result in success. If we are unable to secure and maintain our intellectual property rights, or if we are unable to prevent misappropriation or infringement, our business could be adversely affected. Furthermore, we respect third-party intellectual property rights, and make efforts to avoid violating valid and enforceable intellectual property rights, and seek to procure and pay for licenses from the holders of intellectual property rights that we seek to use. In some cases, we are asked to utilize components and processes that are provided to us by our clients. Customers of Cognate and Vigene, which we acquired in 2021, for example, may utilize intellectual property for the production of their products, the manufacture of which has been contracted to us. Failure by us and/or our customers to secure and maintain rights to third-party intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect, including reduced revenue as a result in a delay or cancellation of the manufacture of products and involvement in judicial and administrative proceedings in which we are named as a party. Further, the drug discovery, drug development, and drug manufacturing industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. Litigation can be expensive, time consuming, and can divert management’s attention from other business concerns. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we may be compelled by a court to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and be ordered to stop the challenged activity, or obtain a license on unnegotiated and/or unfavorable terms. Our by-laws designate the state courts located in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions, including derivative actions, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, other employees, or the Company's stockholders and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or the Company’s stockholders, (3) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Company’s certificate of incorporation or the Company’s by-laws (in each case, as they may be amended from time to time), or (4) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be a state court located within the state of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware). However, this exclusive forum provision will not apply to suits brought under the federal securities laws for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. If a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our by-laws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business and financial condition. Furthermore, although we believe the exclusive forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law for the specified types of actions and proceedings, this provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, or other employees and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. 32 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Labor & Employment Risk Factors We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees, which would harm our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer and President since 1992 and Chairman since 2000, has held various positions with us for four decades. While we entered into an amended employment agreement with Mr. Foster in 2021, most members of our senior management do not have employment agreements except in jurisdictions outside of the United States where employment contracts are common for most employees. If Mr. Foster or other members of senior management do not continue in their present positions, our business may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to attract, hire or retain key team members or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we have a strong record of employee retention, and we strive to reduce the impact of the potential loss of existing employees by having an established organizational talent review process that identifies successors and potential talent needs, there is still significant competition for qualified personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business. We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our team members. Our employees are not unionized in the U.S. Employees at some of our European facilities are represented by works councils, employee representative groups and/or unions, which is consistent with local customs for our industry. Our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees. If we fail to maintain good relations with our team members or with the labor organizations, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. Financial and Accounting Risk Factors Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. As of December 25, 2021, we had $2.7 billion of debt and finance leases (debt). Our debt could have significant adverse effects on our business, including making it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates, and reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. For additional information regarding our debt, please see Note 9, “Long-Term Debt and Finance Lease Obligations”, included in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The interest rate on our credit facility (Credit Facility), which matures in fiscal year 2026, is linked to LIBOR for USD denominated borrowings, ESTR for EUR denominated borrowings and SONIA for GBP denominated borrowings. As of December 25, 2021, amounts outstanding on our Credit Facility were $1.2 billion on our revolving credit facility, for which there is an aggregate available borrowing capacity of $3.0 billion. Disruption in the financial market could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the U.K. announced that it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark and it is currently anticipated that LIBOR will be completely phased out by June 30, 2023. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after June 30, 2023, or whether different benchmark rates used to price indebtedness will develop. If LIBOR ceases to exist, the method and rate used to calculate our interest rates and/or payments on our debt in the future may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, or that do not otherwise correlate over time with, the interest rates and/or payments that would have been applicable to our obligations if LIBOR was available in its current form, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. While we continue to take steps to mitigate the impact of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR, such as replacing LIBOR with SONIA as the base rate for GBP denominated borrowings in our Credit Facility as of April 2021. However, further efforts taken to mitigate the impact of the LIBOR phase-out or replacement of LIBOR may not prove successful. In addition, the overall financial market may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Disruption in the financial market could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. 33 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Impairment of long lived tangible assets and intangible assets (such as goodwill and other intangible assets) may adversely impact future results of operations. We have intangible assets, including goodwill, on our balance sheet due to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, projections of cash flows that arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses and discount rates based on an analysis of our weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets. Disruptions in global financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19) could, among other things, impact the discount rate. Other assumptions used in the valuations and actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows, which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such assets. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated, overall macroeconomic or industry conditions deteriorate and/or our market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in establishing the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets, as well as long-lived tangible assets, such as property, plant and equipment and operating lease right-of-use assets. Should the COVID-19 pandemic have a prolonged impact on our industry, triggering events may arise resulting in long-lived tangible asset, intangible asset, or goodwill impairments. To the extent long-lived tangible assets, intangible assets, or goodwill are impaired, their carrying value will be written down to their implied fair values and a charge will be made to our net income. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. As of December 25, 2021, the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangibles on our consolidated balance sheet was $3.8 billion, property, plant and equipment was $1.3 billion, and operating lease right-of-use assets was $293 million. General Risk Factors Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, capital requirements, legal requirements, earnings and other factors. Consequently, our shareholders should not rely on dividends to receive a return on their investment. Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by the risks discussed above, as well as: changes in the general global economy; changes in the mix of our products and services; cyclical buying patterns of our clients; the financial performance of our venture capital investments; and the occasional extra week (“53rd week”) that we recognize in a fiscal year (and fourth fiscal quarter thereof) due to our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A discussion of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2020 and a comparison of our results for the fiscal years ended December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019 was included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2020, filed with the SEC on February 17, 2021. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain percentage changes may not recalculate due to rounding. Overview We are a full service, non-clinical contract research organization (CRO). For 75 years, we have been in the business of providing the research models required in research and development of new drugs, devices, and therapies. Over this time, we have built upon our original core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse portfolio of discovery and safety assessment services, both Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and non-GLP, which is able to support our clients from target identification through non-clinical development. We also provide a suite of products and services to support our clients’ manufacturing activities, including our newly acquired contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO) business. Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to create a more flexible drug development model, which reduces their costs, enhances their productivity and effectiveness, and increases speed to market. Our client base includes major global biopharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies; agricultural and industrial chemical, life science, veterinary medicine, medical device, diagnostic and consumer product companies; contract research and contract manufacturing organizations; and other commercial entities, as well as leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies around the world. We currently operate in over 110 locations and in over 20 countries worldwide, which numbers exclude our Insourcing Solutions (IS) sites. Segment Reporting Our three reportable segments are Research Models and Services (RMS), Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA), and Manufacturing Solutions (Manufacturing). Our RMS reportable segment includes the Research Models, Research Model Services, and Research and GMP-Compliant Cells businesses. Research Models includes the commercial production and sale of small research models, as well as the supply of large research models. Research Model Services includes: Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS), which performs contract breeding and other services associated with genetically engineered models; Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS), which provides health monitoring and diagnostics services related to research models; and Insourcing Solutions (IS), which provides colony management of our clients’ research operations (including recruitment, training, staffing, and management services). Research and GMP-Compliant Cells supplies controlled, consistent, customized primary cells and blood components derived from normal and mobilized peripheral blood, bone marrow, and cord blood. Our DSA reportable segment includes services required to take a drug through the early development process including discovery services, which are non-regulated services to assist clients with the identification, screening, and selection of a lead compound for drug development, and regulated and non-regulated (GLP and non-GLP) safety assessment services. Our Manufacturing reportable segment includes Microbial Solutions, which provides in vitro (non-animal) lot-release testing products, microbial detection products, and species identification services; Biologics Solutions (Biologics), which performs specialized testing of biologics (Biologics Testing Solutions) as well as contract development and manufacturing products and services (CDMO); and Avian Vaccine Services (Avian), which supplies specific-pathogen-free chicken eggs and chickens. COVID-19 Overview On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a strain of novel coronavirus disease, COVID-19, a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic is dynamic, and its ultimate scope, duration and effects are uncertain. This pandemic has and continues to result in, and any future epidemic or pandemic crises may potentially result in, direct and indirect adverse effects on our industry and customers, which in turn has (with respect to COVID-19) and may (with respect to future epidemics or crises) impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not expect to present significant risks to our operations or financial results. Refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, included herein for risk factors reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Giving consideration to each of these risk factors, the following 38 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. is our current estimate and belief of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal year 2021 and how it may continue to affect us in subsequent periods. Business continuity To date, we generally have not experienced significant challenges in implementing our business continuity plans. All of our operating sites remain open and adequately staffed as of the date of this annual report. For certain operations or sites experiencing logistical delays, we have experienced some inefficiencies as it relates to completing work or fulfilling orders; however, we do not believe material expenditures will be required or material resource constraints will occur. Logistical delays include a small number of sites that have experienced reduced operations (including as a result of increased employee absenteeism) or voluntarily closed, as well as delays in transportation activities. We have comprehensive business continuity plans in place for each site globally and are continuously updating these to address the evolving COVID-19 pandemic situation. We have continuously refined our plans as the virus has spread and have encouraged and expressed our expectations that employees work remotely whenever possible. We are adhering to guidelines from government, health, and other regulatory agencies for those employees who need to come into our sites to fulfill their responsibilities. Due to the nature of our business, many employees already work in biosecure environments that require personal protective equipment (PPE) and adhere to other procedures to safely accomplish their daily responsibilities. Accordingly, to date, we believe we have been able to efficiently implement the additional safety precautions. Supply chain We are focused on ensuring that we have adequate inventory and supplies on hand given the potential disruption of the COVID-19 pandemic to our suppliers and their supply chain. Accordingly, we have and expect to continue to increase inventory and supplies in 2022. We continuously engage with our suppliers to limit any potential disruption to our supply chain. However, notwithstanding generally successful efforts to maintain supply chain continuity, we have experienced increased costs and delays throughout our supply chain during the pandemic. Financial condition and results of our global operations We are a global company that operates in over 110 locations and in over 20 countries worldwide. As we perform business across various borders, we are experiencing a continuum of impacts in each location as the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the global economy in different phases. We are continuing to see demand for products and services across all of our businesses, although as described below within Results of Operations, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the level of demand varies with our different businesses. While there is uncertainty, our clients are still in need of the products and services we provide to biomedical research to advance discovery and develop new therapies for the treatment of disease, including the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to certain restrictions in place at the various sites of our clients and suppliers (including client and supplier site closures), there have been challenges relating to timely receiving and shipping products globally in all businesses. Should these restrictions continue, demand/supply issues may persist and could impact revenue growth, operating income (including operating income margins) and cash flows. We have observed some impact due to constraints from internal site restrictions, remote work, resources, and productivity. However, we believe the impact to us has not been as significant as to companies in many other industries because of the nature of our businesses, the classification of our businesses as essential or critical, as the case may be, and our business continuity plans. Recoverability and/or impairment of assets The COVID-19 pandemic did not, and is not expected to, impact the ability to timely account for assets on our balance sheet. There are judgments involved as it relates to reviewing our allowance for credit losses, valuation of inventory, and valuations/recovery of investments. We believe we have the necessary support for estimates derived for these account balances. We have reviewed the collectability and valuation of the assets through the date of financial statement issuance, noting no significant recoverability concerns or any impairments identified. We did not identify any triggering events when reviewing impairment indicators for our goodwill and long-lived assets (tangible and intangible) that would indicate an impairment may exist. Should a prolonged disruption occur where there is a material change from our current expectation of future cash flows, we could experience additional write-offs of client receivables or impairments to certain asset balances due to collectability and valuation issues. Review of impairment indicators and quantifying any impact will continue to be a focus throughout fiscal year 2022. Internal controls over financial reporting in a remote work environment Internal controls over financial reporting are a focus for us to ensure they continue to be designed and operating effectively. As of December 25, 2021 and through the issuance of these financial statements, we did not have any material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting. For personnel responsible for internal control activities and working remote, the ability to work effectively enabled us to continue to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. System and efficiency programs implemented in recent years, as well as those implemented as part of business continuity plans, have enabled us to effectively complete our financial reporting process in a similar way we completed it prior to the COVID-19 39 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. pandemic despite a largely remote working environment. Although there is uncertainty over the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic disruption, we do not anticipate any adverse impact to relevant systems or to the operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. Recent Acquisitions Our strategy is to augment internal growth of existing businesses with complementary acquisitions. We continue to make strategic acquisitions designed to expand our portfolio of products and services to support the drug discovery and development continuum. Our recent acquisitions are described below. On June 28, 2021, we acquired Vigene Biosciences, Inc. (Vigene), a gene therapy contract development and manufacturing organization (CDMO), providing viral vector-based gene delivery solutions. The acquisition enables clients to seamlessly conduct analytical testing, process development, and manufacturing for advanced modalities with the same scientific partner. The preliminary purchase price of Vigene was $323.9 million, net of $2.7 million in cash, and includes $34.5 million of contingent consideration (maximum contingent payments of up to $57.5 million based on future performance). The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our Manufacturing reportable segment. On March 30, 2021, we acquired Retrogenix Limited (Retrogenix), an early-stage CRO providing specialized bioanalytical services utilizing its proprietary cell microarray technology. The acquisition of Retrogenix enhances our scientific expertise with additional large molecule and cell therapy discovery capabilities. The purchase price of Retrogenix was $53.9 million, net of $8.5 million in cash. Included in the purchase price are additional payments up to $6.9 million, which are contingent on future performance. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. On March 29, 2021, we acquired Cognate BioServices, Inc. (Cognate), a cell and gene therapy CDMO offering comprehensive manufacturing solutions for cell therapies, as well as for the production of plasmid DNA and other inputs in the CDMO value chain. The acquisition of Cognate establishes us as a scientific partner for cell and gene therapy development, testing, and manufacturing, providing clients with an integrated solution from basic research and discovery through cGMP production. The preliminary purchase price of Cognate was $879.0 million, net of $70.5 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments and includes $15.7 million of consideration for an approximate 2% ownership interest not acquired. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility and recently issued Senior Notes. This business is reported as part of our Manufacturing reportable segment. On March 3, 2021, we acquired certain assets from a distributor that supports our DSA reportable segment. The purchase price was $35.4 million, which includes $19.5 million in cash paid ($5.5 million of which was paid in fiscal 2020), and $15.9 million of contingent consideration (the maximum contingent contractual payments are up to $17.5 million). The business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. On December 31, 2020, we acquired Distributed Bio, Inc. (Distributed Bio), a next-generation antibody discovery company with technologies specializing in enhancing the probability of success for delivering high-quality, readily formattable antibody fragments to support antibody and cell and gene therapy candidates to biopharmaceutical clients. The acquisition of Distributed Bio expands our capabilities with an innovative, large-molecule discovery platform, and creates an integrated, end-to-end platform for therapeutic antibody and cell and gene therapy discovery and development. The purchase price of Distributed Bio was $97.0 million, net of $0.8 million in cash. The total consideration includes $80.8 million cash paid, settlement of $3.0 million in convertible promissory notes previously issued by us during prior fiscal years, and $14.0 million of contingent consideration (the maximum contingent contractual payments are up to $21.0 million). The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment . On August 6, 2020, we acquired Cellero, LLC (Cellero), a provider of cellular products for cell therapy developers and manufacturers worldwide. The addition of Cellero enhances our unique, comprehensive solutions for the high-growth cell therapy market, strengthening our ability to help accelerate clients’ critical programs from basic research and proof-of-concept to regulatory approval and commercialization. It also expands our access to high-quality, human-derived biomaterials with Cellero’s donor sites in the United States. The purchase price for Cellero was $36.9 million, net of $0.5 million in cash. The acquisition was funded through available cash. This business is reported as part of our RMS reportable segment. On January 3, 2020, we acquired HemaCare Corporation (HemaCare), a business specializing in the production of human-derived cellular products for the cell therapy market. The acquisition of HemaCare expands our comprehensive portfolio of early-stage research and manufacturing support solutions to encompass the production and customization of high-quality, human derived cellular products to better support clients’ cell therapy programs. The purchase price of HemaCare was $376.7 million , net of $3.1 million in cash. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our RMS reportable segment. 40 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Recent Divestitures On October 12, 2021, we completed two separate divestitures. We sold our RMS Japan operations to The Jackson Laboratory for a preliminary purchase price of $73.5 million, which included $8.2 million in cash, $3.6 million pension over funding, and certain post-closing adjustments. We also sold our gene therapy CDMO site in Sweden to a private investor group for a preliminary purchase price of $59.6 million, net of $0.2 million in cash and certain post-closing adjustments. Included in the purchase price are contingent payments fair valued at $15.3 million, (the maximum contingent contractual payments are up to $25.0 million based on future performance), as well as a purchase obligation of approximately $10 million between the parties. Fiscal Quarters Our fiscal year is typically based on 52-weeks, with each quarter composed of 13 weeks ending on the last Saturday on, or closest to, March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. A 53rd week in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year is occasionally necessary to align with a December 31 calendar year-end, which will occur in fiscal year 2022. Business Trends The COVID-19 pandemic continued in 2021, but the global economy endured the challenges of the pandemic and recovered, as did biopharmaceutical research activity. Our ability to continue to deliver our leading suite of research and non-clinical development solutions has endeavored our clients to increasingly choose to partner with us for our flexible and efficient outsourcing solutions, broad scientific capabilities, and global scale, as well as our resilience throughout the pandemic. Most of our businesses rebounded from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic by early 2021, subsequently resulting in unprecedented client demand throughout the year. The strength of the demand environment was further reinforced by strong biotech funding and continued scientific innovation, resulting in robust revenue growth across all three of our reportable segments in fiscal year 2021. Many of our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients intensified their use of strategic outsourcing during 2021 to move their early-stage research programs forward in an efficient and cost-effective manner. Small and mid-size biotechnology clients continued to be the primary driver of revenue growth as these clients benefited from the sustained strength of the biotechnology funding environment in fiscal year 2021, from capital markets, partnering with large biopharmaceutical companies, and investment by venture capital, as well as the enhanced global focus on scientific innovation and emphasized greater investment in their preclinical pipelines. Many of our large biopharmaceutical clients have continued to increase investments in their drug discovery and early-stage development efforts and have strengthened their relationships with both CROs, like us, and biotechnology companies to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. Clients continue to seek to outsource larger portions of their early-stage drug research programs to us, which is leading to new business opportunities as clients adopt more flexible and efficient research and development models. Our DSA reportable segment continued to benefit from these trends in fiscal year 2021. Robust Safety Assessment revenue growth was primarily driven by unprecedented client demand and increased pricing, which was supported by record backlog levels. We believe the acquisitions of Citoxlab (2019), MPI Research (2018), and WIL Research (2016) have solidified our scientific capabilities and global scale, and the breadth and depth of our scientific expertise, quality, and responsiveness remain key criteria when our clients make the decision to outsource to us. As biotechnology funding remains robust and our clients continue to pursue their goal of more efficient and effective drug research to bring innovative new therapies to market, they are evaluating outsourcing more of their research programs, such as discovery services. We continued to enhance our Discovery Services capabilities to provide clients with a comprehensive portfolio that enables them to start working with us at the earliest stages of the discovery process. We have accomplished this through acquisitions, including Retrogenix and Distributed Bio in fiscal year 2021, Citoxlab’s discovery services, KWS BioTest in 2018 and Brains On-Line in 2017, and through adding cutting-edge capabilities to our discovery toolkit through partnerships, such as BitBio, Cypre, Fios Genomics, and most recently, discovery artificial intelligence (AI) partners Valence Discovery and Valo. In fiscal year 2021, demand in our Discovery Services business also increased significantly, as our efforts to enhance our scientific capabilities, provide clients with flexible partnering models, and become a trusted scientific partner for our clients’ early-stage programs have been successful. Overall, demand for our products and services that support our clients’ manufacturing activities intensified in fiscal year 2021. Demand for our Microbial Solutions significantly rebounded in fiscal year 2021 from last year’s COVID-19 restrictions that limited access to certain client sites, and the business completed the delayed instrument installations. Demand for our Biologics Solutions business continued to meaningfully accelerate driven by our analytical testing services to address the rapidly growing proportion of biologic drugs in the pipeline and on the market, including cell and gene therapies and COVID-19 therapeutics. In 2021, we continued to enhance our Biologics Solutions portfolio with the acquisitions of Cognate (March 2021) and Vigene (June 2021) to expand our scientific capabilities into the cell and gene therapy CDMO sector. We believe these businesses enable Charles River to be a premier scientific partner for development, testing, and manufacturing of advanced drug modalities and further enhance our presence in the high-growth cell and gene therapy sector. 41 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Demand for our Research Models and Services returned to pre-pandemic levels as clients returned to their research sites and resumed their biomedical research efforts in earnest, which drove robust revenue growth in fiscal year 2021. This was particularly true in China, as the resurgence in demand outpaced North America and Europe due in part to an expanded product offering and ongoing efforts to enhance the geographic reach in China. Demand for research model services continued to perform very well, particularly for our IS and GEMS businesses. We are confident that research models and services will remain essential tools for our clients’ drug discovery and early-stage development efforts. In 2020, we enhanced the RMS business’ growth profile and portfolio of critical research tools that we are able to supply through the acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero, premier providers of human-derived cellular products used in cell therapies. While the performance of these cell supply businesses continued to be impacted by COVID-19-related disruptions to donor availability in fiscal year 2021, we believe that we are taking the necessary actions to enable these businesses to achieve their full growth potential and capitalize on the robust, underlying demand from cell therapy developers and manufacturers in the near future. Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity Revenue for fiscal year 2021 was $3.5 billion compared to $2.9 billion in fiscal year 2020. The 2021 increase as compared to the corresponding period in 2020 was $616.3 million, or 21.1%, and was primarily due to the increased demand across all of our reporting segments, principally within DSA and the impact of RMS recovering from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior period, as discussed in the above “Business Trends” section, as well as the recent acquisitions, principally within our Manufacturing reporting segment; and by the positive effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates when compared to the corresponding period in 2020. In fiscal year 2021, our operating income and operating income margin were $589.9 million and 16.7%, respectively, compared with $432.7 million and 14.8%, respectively, in fiscal year 2020. The increases in operating income and operating income margin were primarily due to the contribution of higher revenue described above and the recovery from the effects from the COVID-19 pandemic compared to the corresponding period in 2020. Net income attributable to common shareholders increased to $391.0 million in fiscal year 2021, from $364.3 million in the corresponding period of 2020. The increase in net income attributable to common shareholders of $26.7 million was primarily due to the increase in operating income described above, partially offset by venture capital investment losses in fiscal year 2021 as compared to gains incurred for the corresponding period in 2020. During fiscal year 2021, our cash flows from operations was $760.8 million compared with $546.6 million for fiscal year 2020. The increase was driven by higher net income and improvements from our working capital initiatives, including the timing of vendor and supplier payments and collections of net contract balances from contracts with customers (collectively trade receivables and contract assets, net; deferred revenue; and customer contract deposits) compared to the same period in 2020. During fiscal year 2021, we issued $1 billion of debt split between $500 million of 3.75% Senior Notes due in 2029 (2029 Senior Notes), and $500 million of 4.00% Senior Notes due in 2031 (2031 Senior Notes), in an unregistered offering. Interest on the 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15. Proceeds from the 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes were used as follows: prepay the $500 million 2026 Senior Notes, $21 million of debt extinguishment costs, and $13 million of accrued interest; prepay the $146.9 million remaining term loan; pay down $135 million of the revolving facility; and pay for a portion of the Cognate acquisition. Additionally, in April, 2021, we amended and restated our Credit Facility by extending the maturity date to April 2026 and increasing the amount of our multi-currency revolving facility from $2.05 billion to $3.0 billion. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S.). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are monitored and analyzed by us for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on our historical experience, trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the application of our accounting policies, each of which require significant judgments and estimates on the part of management, are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 42 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. We believe the following represent our critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements: Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when, or as, obligations under the terms of a contract are satisfied, which occurs when control of the promised products or services is transferred to customers. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring products or services to a customer (“transaction price”). To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the amount to which we expect to be entitled. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. Estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available. Sales, value add, and other taxes collected on behalf of third parties are excluded from revenue. When determining the transaction price of a contract, an adjustment is made if payment from a customer occurs either significantly before or significantly after performance, resulting in a significant financing component. Generally, we do not extend payment terms beyond one year. Applying the practical expedient, we do not assess whether a significant financing component exists if the period between when we perform our obligations under the contract and when the customer pays is one year or less. Our contracts do not generally contain significant financing components. Contracts with customers may contain multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated relative standalone selling prices of the promised products or services underlying each performance obligation. We determine standalone selling prices based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications exist when the modification either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and obligations. Generally, when contract modifications create new performance obligations, the modification is considered to be a separate contract and revenue is recognized prospectively. When contract modifications change existing performance obligations, the impact on the existing transaction price and measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is generally recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis. Product revenue is generally recognized when the customer obtains control of our product, which occurs at a point in time, and may be upon shipment or upon delivery based on the contractual shipping terms of a contract. Service revenue is generally recognized over time as the services are delivered to the customer based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Depending on which better depicts the transfer of value to the customer, we generally measure our progress using either cost-to-cost (input method) or right-to-invoice (output method). We use the cost-to-cost measure of progress when it best depicts the transfer of value to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contract, generally related to fixed fee service contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. The costs calculation includes variables such as labor hours, allocation of overhead costs, research model costs, and subcontractor costs. Revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. The right-to-invoice measure of progress is generally related to rate per unit contracts, as the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on discrete service or time-based increments, such as samples tested or labor hours incurred. Revenue is recorded in the amount invoiced since that amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. During fiscal year 2021, $2.1 billion, or approximately 60%, of our total revenue recognized ($3.5 billion) is DSA service revenue transferred over time. Income Taxes We prepare and file income tax returns based on our interpretation of each jurisdiction’s tax laws and regulations. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and financial reporting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Significant management judgment is required in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. In making this determination, under the applicable financial accounting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected 43 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. future taxable income, and the effects of tax planning strategies. Our valuation allowance was $315.6 million as of December 25, 2021. In the event actual results differ from our estimates, we will adjust our estimates in future periods and may establish additional allowances or reversals as necessary. We account for uncertain tax positions using a “more-likely-than-not” threshold for recognizing and resolving uncertain tax positions. We evaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and consider various factors, that include, but are not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, the effective settlement of matters subject to audit, information obtained during in process audit activities and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We adjust the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts surrounding the uncertain positions. Our liabilities for uncertain tax positions can be relieved only if the contingency becomes legally extinguished through either payment to the taxing authority or the expiration of the statute of limitations, the recognition of the benefits associated with the position meet the “more-likely-than-not” threshold or the liability becomes effectively settled through the controversy process. We consider matters to be effectively settled once the taxing authority has completed all of its required or expected examination procedures, including all appeals and administrative reviews; we have no plans to appeal or litigate any aspect of the tax position; and we believe that it is highly unlikely that the taxing authority would re-examine the related tax position. We also accrue for potential interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We generally receive a tax deduction upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options by employees, or the vesting of restricted stock and performance share units held by employees. The stock price, timing, and amount of vesting and exercising of stock-based compensation could materially impact our current tax expense. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We use assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. The determination of the fair value of intangible assets, which represent a significant portion of the purchase price in many of our acquisitions, requires the use of significant judgment with regard to (i) the fair value; and (ii) whether such intangibles are amortizable or non-amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the intangible asset will be amortized. We utilize commonly accepted valuation techniques, such as the income, cost and market approaches, as appropriate, in establishing the fair value of intangible assets. Typically, key assumptions include projections of cash flows that arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses as well as discount rates based on an analysis of the weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets. In our recent acquisitions, customer relationship intangible assets (also referred to as client relationships) have been the most significant identifiable assets acquired. To determine the fair value of the acquired client relationships, we utilized the multiple period excess earnings model (a commonly accepted valuation technique), which includes the following key assumptions: projections of cash flows from the acquired entities, which included future revenue growth rates, operating income margins, and customer attrition rates; as well as discount rates based on an analysis of the acquired entities’ weighted average cost of capital. The value of client relationships acquired were $257.2 million for Cognate, $87.5 million for Vigene, $17.3 million for Retrogenix and $16.1 million for Distributed Bio in fiscal year 2021. Client relationships acquired for fiscal year 2020 were valued at $170.4 million for HemaCare and $14.7 million for Cellero. We review definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. No impairments were recognized during fiscal years 2021 and 2020. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually, during the fourth quarter, and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset-related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in our analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and our evaluation of goodwill for impairment. We perform the quantitative impairment test where we compare the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying values. If the carrying values of the net assets assigned to the reporting units exceed the fair values of the reporting units, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. In fiscal years 2021 and 2020 we performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for our reporting units. Fair value was determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination was deemed to be the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilized information about our company as well as publicly available industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units. 44 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Under the income approach, we determined fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Our 2021 and 2020 impairment tests indicated that goodwill was not impaired. Valuation and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property, plant, and equipment, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, the following: • significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; • significant negative industry or economic trends; or • significant changes or developments in strategy or operations that negatively affect the utilization of our long-lived assets. Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset, net of any sublease income, if applicable, and its eventual disposition. In the event that such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to their fair values. We measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. Significant judgments are required to estimate future cash flows, including the selection of appropriate discount rates and other assumptions. We may also estimate fair value based on market prices for similar assets, as appropriate. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for these assets. No impairments were recognized during fiscal years 2021 and 2020. Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans Several of our U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. We recognize the funded status of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as an asset or liability. This amount is defined as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. We measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of our fiscal year end. The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the expected return on plan assets, withdrawal and mortality rates, discount rate, and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on our data and appropriate market indicators, and are evaluated each year as of the plans’ measurement date. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligations. In determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the relative weighting of plan assets, the historical performance of total plan assets and individual asset classes and economic and other indicators of future performance. The discount rate reflects the rate we would have to pay to purchase high-quality investments that would provide cash sufficient to settle our current pension obligations. A 25-basis point change in the discount rate changes the projected benefit obligation by approximately $17 million for all our plans. The rate of compensation increase reflects the expected annual salary increases for the plan participants based on historical experience and the current employee compensation strategy. The Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan (U.S. Pension Plan) was a qualified, non-contributory defined benefit plan covering certain U.S. employees. The U.S. Pension Plan was amended in 2002 to exclude new participants and in 2008 the accrual of benefits was frozen. In January 2019, we commenced the process to terminate this plan and received regulatory approval in April 2020. In October 2020, we settled all remaining benefits directly with vested participants through either lump sum payouts or the purchase of a group annuity contract from a qualified insurance company to administer all future payments. Prior to the settlement, the U.S. Pension Plan was underfunded with a benefit obligation of approximately $94 million and plan assets of approximately $93 million. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we made a contribution of approximately $1 million to fully fund this plan to cover the lump sum payments, purchase the group annuity contract, and settle remaining termination costs. Upon settlement of the pension liability, we recognized a non-cash settlement charge of approximately $10 million related to pension losses, reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to other expense in the consolidated statement of income. 45 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Stock-Based Compensation We grant stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance share units (PSUs) to employees, and stock options, restricted stock, and RSUs to non-employee directors under stock-based compensation plans. We make certain assumptions in order to value and record expense associated with awards made under our stock-based compensation arrangements. Changes in these assumptions may lead to variability with respect to the timing and amount of expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments. Stock-based compensation is recognized as an expense in the consolidated statements of income based on the grant date fair value, adjusted for forfeitures when they occur, over the requisite service period. Determining the appropriate valuation model and related assumptions requires judgment. The fair value of stock options granted is calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the fair value of PSUs is estimated using a lattice model with a Monte Carlo simulation, both of which require the use of subjective assumptions including volatility and expected term, among others. Determining the appropriate amount to expense based on the anticipated achievement of PSU’s performance targets requires judgment, including forecasting the achievement of future financial targets. The estimate of expense is revised periodically based on the probability of achieving the required performance targets. The cumulative impact of any changes to our estimates is reflected in the period of change. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 46 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year 2020 Revenue and Operating Income The following tables present consolidated revenue by type and by reportable segment: The following table presents operating income by reportable segment: The following presents and discusses our consolidated financial results by each of our reportable segments: RMS RMS revenue increased $119.4 million due primarily to higher research model product revenue across all geographies, most notably North America and China, as we recovered from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic compared to fiscal year 2020 when many of our academic clients experienced closures; higher research model services revenue, which includes our GEMS, Insourcing Solutions and RADS businesses; the acquisition of Cellero, which contributed $5.7 million to product revenue for the partial year prior to the acquisition’s anniversary date; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; partially offset by the divestiture of RMS Japan, which decreased revenue by $10.5 million. RMS operating income increased $64.1 million compared to fiscal year 2020. RMS operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2021 was 24.2%, an increase of 620 bps from 18.0% for fiscal year 2020. Operating income and 47 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. operating income as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to the contribution of higher revenue described above as we recovered from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. DSA DSA revenue increased $269.8 million due primarily to service revenue which increased in both the Safety Assessment and Discovery Services businesses due to demand from biotechnology and global biopharmaceutical clients; increased pricing of services; the acquisitions of Retrogenix and Distributed Bio, which collectively contributed $18.3 million to Discovery Services revenue; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. DSA revenue was not significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal years 2021 and 2020. DSA operating income increased $81.1 million compared to fiscal year 2020. DSA operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2021 was 19.3%, an increase of 160 bps from 17.7% for fiscal year 2020. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue increased primarily due to the contribution of higher revenue described above as well as adjustments to contingent consideration arrangements related to certain acquisitions, which are recorded within selling, general, and administrative costs, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency. These increases in operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue were also attributable to decreased costs in both cost of revenue and selling, general, and administrative expenses related to certain 2020 site closures, which resulted in lower severance costs, site consolidation costs, and asset impairments during fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020. Manufacturing Manufacturing revenue increased $227.1 million due primarily to our Biologics Solutions business, which included the CDMO business acquisitions of Cognate and Vigene, which collectively contributed $109.9 million, and higher service revenue within our Biologics Testing Solutions business; increased demand for endotoxin products in our Microbial Solutions business as we completed the delayed instrument installations from last year’s COVID-19 restrictions that limited access to certain client sites; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Manufacturing operating income increased $64.9 million compared to fiscal year 2020. The increase in operating income was due primarily to the contribution of higher revenue in our Biologics business in fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020. Manufacturing operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2021 was 33.2%, a decrease of (200) bps from 35.2% for fiscal year 2020. The decrease in operating income as a percentage of revenue was due to the acquisitions of Cognate and Vigene, principally due to the higher amortization of intangible assets and higher operating costs associated with the acquisitions, as well as higher operating costs in our Microbial Solutions business during fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020; partially offset by adjustments to contingent consideration arrangements related to certain acquisitions, which are recorded within selling, general, and administrative costs during fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020. 48 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Unallocated Corporate Unallocated corporate costs consist of selling, general and administrative expenses that are not directly related or allocated to the reportable segments. The increase in unallocated corporate costs of $52.9 million, or 29.8%, compared to fiscal year 2020 is primarily related to an increase in compensation, benefits, and other employee-related expenses, and increased costs associated with the evaluation and integration of our recent acquisition activity. Costs as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2021 was 6.5%, an increase of 40 bps from 6.1% for fiscal year 2020. Interest Income Interest income, which represents earnings on cash, cash equivalents, and time deposits was $0.7 million and $0.8 million for fiscal years 2021 and 2020, respectively. Interest Expense In terest expense for fiscal year 2021 was $73.9 million, a decrease of $12.5 million, or 14.5%, compared to $86.4 million for fiscal year 2020. The decrease was due primarily to foreign currency gains recognized in connection with debt-related foreign exchange forward contracts in fiscal year 2021 as compared to foreign currency losses recognized in fiscal year 2020, partially offset by $26 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the repayment of the 2026 Senior Notes and related write-off of deferred financing costs incurred in fiscal year 2021. Other (Expense) Income, Net O ther expense, net, was $35.9 million for fiscal year 2021, a decrease of $135.9 million compared to other income, net of $100.0 million for fiscal year 2020. The decrease was due primarily to venture capital and strategic equity investment losses of $30.4 million in fiscal year 2021 as compared to gains of $100.9 million incurred in fiscal year 2020, and foreign currency losses recognized in connection with a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. entity with a different functional currency in fiscal year 2021 as compared to foreign currency gains recognized in fiscal year 2020; partially offset by a gain on the divestiture of our RMS Japan business of $22.7 million during the three months ended December 25, 2021, and the $10.3 million settlement loss for the termination of the U.S. Pension Plan in fiscal year 2020. Income Taxes Income tax expense for fiscal year 2021 was $81.9 million, an increase of $0.1 million compared to $81.8 million for fiscal year 2020. Our effective tax rate was 17.0% for fiscal year 2021 compared to 18.3% for fiscal year 2020. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020 was primarily due to higher tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions and a non-taxable gain on divestiture; partially offset by the impact of enacted tax rate changes. 49 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently require cash to fund our working capital needs, capital expansion, acquisitions, and to pay our debt, lease, venture capital investment, and pension obligations. Our principal sources of liquidity have been our cash flows from operations, supplemented by long-term borrowings. Based on our current business plan, we believe that our existing funds, when combined with cash generated from operations and our access to financing resources, are sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future. Our liquidity and capital resources have not been materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The following table presents our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments: Borrowings During March 2021, we fully repaid our term loan and subsequently amended and restated our Credit Facility creating a $3.0 billion multi-currency revolving facility (increasing the capacity from $2.05 billion), which extends the maturity date to April 2026 (previously March 2023) with no required scheduled payment before that date. We also have certain indentures that allow for senior notes offerings: • In 2018, we raised $500.0 million of 5.5% Senior Notes due in 2026 (2026 Senior Notes) in an unregistered offering. Interest on the 2026 Senior Notes was payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1. On March 23, 2021, we repaid the $500.0 million 2026 Senior Notes with proceeds from our 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes (see below). • In 2019, we raised $500.0 million of 4.25% Senior Notes due in 2028 (2028 Senior Notes) in an unregistered offering. Interest on the 2028 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1. • In March 2021, we raised $1.0 billion of senior notes split between $500 million of 3.75% Senior Notes due in 2029 (2029 Senior Notes), and $500 million of 4.00% Senior Notes due in 2031 (2031 Senior Notes) in an unregistered offering. Interest on the 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15. Amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility and our Senior Notes were as follows: The interest rates applicable to the Credit Facility are equal to (A) for revolving loans denominated in U.S. dollars, at our option, either the base rate (which is the higher of (1) the prime rate, (2) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, or (3) the one-month adjusted LIBOR rate plus 1%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate, (B) for revolving loans denominated in euros, the adjusted EURIBOR rate and (C) for revolving loans denominated in sterling, the daily simple SONIA rate, in each case, plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage ratio. We entered into foreign exchange forward contracts during fiscal years 2021 and 2020 to limit our foreign currency exposure related to a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity under the Credit Facility. Our off-balance sheet commitments related to our outstanding letters of credit as of December 25, 2021 were $17.7 million. 50 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Repurchases of Common Stock During fiscal year 2021, we did not repurchase any shares under our authorized $1.3 billion stock repurchase program. As of December 25, 2021, we had $129.1 million remaining on the authorized stock repurchase program. Our stock-based compensation plans permit the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units, and performance share units in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. During fiscal year 2021, we acquired 0.1 million shares for $40.7 million through such netting. Cash Flows The following table presents our net cash provided by operating activities: Net cash provided by cash flows from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements related to all of our activities other than investing and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting our net income for (1) non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, loss on debt extinguishment and other financing costs, deferred income taxes, gains and/or losses on venture capital and strategic equity investments, gains and/or losses on divestitures, contingent consideration, a s well as (2) changes in operating assets and liabilities, which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash associat ed with transactions and when they are recognized in our results of operations. For fiscal year 2021, compared to fiscal year 2020, the increase in net cash provi ded by operating activities was driven by higher net income and improvements from our working capital initiatives, including the timing of vendor and supplier payments and collections of net contract balances from contracts with customers (collectively trade receivables and contract assets, net; deferred revenue; and customer contract deposits) compared to the same period in 2020. The following table presents our net cash used in investing activities: The primary use of cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2021 related to the acquisitions of Cognate, Vigene, Distributed Bio, Retrogenix, and certain assets from a distributor, capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments; partially offset by the proceeds from the recent divestitures of RMS Japan and CDMO Sweden. The primary use of cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2020 related to the acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero, capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments. 51 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. The following table presents our net cash provided b y financing ac tivities: For fiscal year 2021, net cash provided by financing activities reflected the net proceeds of $708.2 million on our Credit Facility, Senior Notes, and finance lease obligations. Included in the net proceeds are the following amounts: • Payments of approximately $147 million on our term loan; • Proceeds of $1.0 billion from the issuance of the 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes, which were used to prepay our $500 million 2026 Senior Notes; • Borrowings under our Credit Facility of $1.3 billion, which were used primarily for the acquisitions of Cognate, Vigene, Distributed Bio, Retrogenix and certain assets from a distributor; • Net payments of $710 million made to our Credit Facility throughout fiscal year 2021; • Gross proceeds and payments of approximately $1.5 billion, but having a net impact of zero, were incurred as part of amending and restating our Credit Facility; • Gross proceeds and payments of approximately $3.0 billion in connection with a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity repaying Euro loans and replacing the Euro loans with U.S. dollar denominated loans. A series of forward currency contracts were executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the U.S. dollar denominated loans. These proceeds and payments are presented as gross financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities also reflected proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $45.7 million, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $40.7 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. Additionally we paid $21 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the 2026 Senior Notes repayment and $17 million of debt financing costs associated with the 2029 and 2031 Senior Notes issuances and amending and restating the Credit Agreement. For fiscal year 2020, net cash provided by financing activities reflected the net proceeds of $30.6 million on our long-term debt, revolving credit facility, and finance lease obligations. Included in the net proceeds are the following amounts: • Proceeds of approximately $415 million from our revolving Credit Facility to fund our recent acquisitions. Additionally, towards the end of the first fiscal quarter, we borrowed an additional $150 million from our revolving Credit Facility to secure available cash in response to uncertainties due to the COVID-19 pandemic; partially offset by, • Paymen ts of approximately $47 million on our term loan and net payments of $476 million to our revolving Credit Facility throughout fiscal year 2020, which included the repayment of the $150 million additional borrowings during the first fiscal quarter of 2020; • Additio nally, we had $1.6 billion of gross payments, partially offset by $1.6 billion of gross proceeds in connection with a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity repaying Euro loans and replacing the Euro loans with U.S. dollar denominated loans. A series of forward currency contracts were executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the U.S. dollar denominated loans. These proceeds and payments are presented as gross financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities also reflected proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $46.6 million, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $24.0 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. 52 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC. Off-Balance Sheet and Other Arrangements We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. In addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay additional amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance, and other operating expenses. As of December 25, 2021, we had $449.9 million of operating leases inclusive of future minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, net of income from subleases as well as $35.2 million of financing leases. In addition to the obligations on the balance sheet at December 25, 2021, we entered into unconditional purchase obligations in the ordinary course of business. Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable at any time without penalty. As of December 25, 2021, we had approximately $260 million of unconditional purchase obligations, the majority of which are expected to be settled during 2022. We invest in several venture capital funds that invest in start-up companies, primarily in the life sciences industry. Our total commitment to the funds as of December 25, 2021 was $165.3 million, of which we funded $113.3 million through December 25, 2021. Refer to Note 6, “Venture Capital and Strategic Equity Investments,” to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. In connection with certain business and asset acquisitions, we agreed to make additional payments based upon the achievement of certain financial targets and other milestones in connection with the respective acquisition. As of December 25, 2021 we had approximately $126 million of gross contingent payments, of which $53 million are expected to be paid. We have certain federal and state income tax liabilities of $48.8 million relating to the one-time Transition Tax on unrepatriated earnings under the 2017 Tax Act. The Transition Tax will be paid, interest free, over an eight-year period through 2026. 53 CHARLES RIVER LABORATORIES INTERNATIONAL, INC.