********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Set forth below, elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents we file with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K. We note that factors set forth below, individually or in the aggregate, as well as additional risks and uncertainties either not presently known or that are currently believed to not be material to the business, may cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties and the risks described below should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future documents we file with the SEC. Business and Operational Risks The COVID-19 pandemic is dynamic and expanding. The continuation of this outbreak may have, and the emergence of other epidemic or pandemic crises could have, material adverse effects on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a strain of novel coronavirus disease, COVID-19, a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic is dynamic and expanding, and its ultimate scope, duration and effects are uncertain. This pandemic has and continues to result in, and any future epidemic or pandemic crises may potentially result in, direct and indirect adverse effects on our industry and customers, which in turn has (with respect to COVID-19) and may (with respect to future epidemics or crises) impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us. Effects of the current pandemic have included, or may in the future include, among others: • deterioration of worldwide, regional or national economic conditions and activity, which adversely affects global demand for our products and services; • disruptions to our operations as a result of the potential health impact on our employees and crew, and on the workforces of our customers and business partners; • temporary and/or partial closures of our facilities or the facilities of our customers (including academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations) and third-party service providers; • interruption of the operations of global supply chains and those of our suppliers; • disruptions to our business from, or additional costs related to, new regulations, directives or practices implemented in response to the pandemic, such as travel restrictions, shelter in place/stay in place/work from home orders, increased inspection regimes, hygiene measures (such as quarantining and physical distancing) or increased implementation of remote working arrangements; • reduced cash flows and financial condition, including potential liquidity constraints; • reduced access to capital, including the ability to refinance any existing obligations, as a result of any credit tightening generally or due to declines in global financial markets, including to the prices of publicly-traded equity securities of us, our peers and of listed companies generally; • deterioration in the financial condition and prospects of our customers or attempts by customers, suppliers or service providers to invoke force majeure contractual clauses, or the legal doctrines of impossibility or impracticability (or other similar doctrines) as a result of delays or other disruptions; • delays in the commencement of, or the suspension or cancellation of, client studies; and • the effects described elsewhere in these Risk Factors. 16 The COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices, including but not limited to health management of employees, customers and suppliers, management of production inventory, supply chain risk management, compensation practices and capital expenditure planning. We have formed a tiered structure of designated COVID-19 crisis management teams throughout our organization to identify, implement and monitor such actions as required by the dynamic exigencies arising from the pandemic. Such measures and others may not be sufficient to mitigate all the risks posed by COVID-19, and our ability to perform critical functions could be materially adversely affected. Although disruption and effects from the COVID-19 pandemic may be temporary, given the dynamic nature of these circumstances and the worldwide nature of our business and operations, the duration of any business disruption and the related financial impact to us cannot be reasonably estimated at this time but could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We bear financial risk for contracts that may be terminated or reduced in scope, underpriced, subject to cost overruns or delayed. Many of our agreements, including those which underlie our strategic relationships with some of our more significant clients, provide for termination or reduction in scope with little or no notice. In addition, we sell our products and services to our competitors, and similarly they sell products and services to us. For instance, we have historically entered into, and currently are party to, contracts with certain of our competitors to distribute specialty research models in locations where our competitors may not have distribution capabilities. Our counterparties (including our clients who are competitors) may elect to terminate their agreements with us for various reasons including: the invocation of force majeure clauses, or the legal doctrines of impossibility or impracticability (or other similar legal doctrines), as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic; the products being tested fail to satisfy safety requirements; unexpected or undesired study results; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; a client’s decision to forego or terminate a particular study; our competitors’ establishment of alternative distribution channels; dissatisfaction with our performance under the agreement; the loss of funding for the particular research study; or general convenience/counterparty preference. If a counterparty terminates a contract with us, we are typically entitled under the terms of the contract to receive revenue earned to date as well as certain other costs and, in some cases, termination fees; however, in many cases we are not entitled to any termination fees in the event of a termination. Cancellation of a large contract or proximate delay, cancellation or conclusion of multiple contracts could materially adversely affect our business and, therefore, may adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, many of our contracts provide for services on a fixed price or fee-for-service with a cap basis and, accordingly, we bear the financial risk if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates. Such underpricing or significant cost overruns could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions. In recent years, we have been updating and consolidating systems and automating processes in many parts of our business with a variety of systems, including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses. The expansion and ongoing implementation of the systems may occur at a future date based on value to the business. In general, the process of planning and preparing for these types of integrated, wide-scale implementations is extremely complex and we are required to address a number of challenges, including information security assessment and remediation, data conversion, network and system cutover and user training. Problems in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including delayed shipments, missed sales, billing errors and accounting errors. We have in the past experienced and in the future could experience an unauthorized access into our information systems. We operate large and complex information systems that contain significant amounts of client data. As a routine element of our business, we collect, analyze and retain substantial amounts of data pertaining to the non-clinical studies we conduct for our clients. Unauthorized third parties could attempt to gain entry to such information systems to steal data or disrupt the systems or for financial gain. Like other companies, we have on occasion experienced, and will continue to experience, threats and incursions to our data and systems, including malicious codes and viruses, phishing, business email compromise and social engineering attacks or other cyber-attacks. The number and complexity of these threats continue to increase over time. While we have taken measures to protect our information systems from intrusion, in March 2019, we detected evidence that an unauthorized third party, who we believe was well resourced and highly sophisticated, accessed certain of our information systems and copied data. We worked with a leading cyber security firm to assist in our investigation and coordinated with law enforcement authorities. Our investigation indicated that the affected information included client information. 17 In December 2019, we disclosed that we had completed our remediation of the incident identified in March of 2019. While we have implemented additional security safeguards, including: • remediation of the March 2019 incident; • cooperation with U.S. Federal authorities’ investigation into the incident and established an ongoing relationship to better understand the ever-changing nature of cybersecurity related threats; • additional visibility into our network and environment; • additional monitoring of our environment; • active threat hunting in our environment; • enhanced protection for externally facing web applications; • the addition of Multi-Factor Authentication to ingress points; • the addition of denial of service attack protection; and • increased network segmentation, such efforts may not be successful, in which case we could suffer significant harm. Further, we are at risk of being targeted, and we have in the past been victim to, business email compromise fraud, which results in payments being made to illegitimate bank accounts. Although these instances have not resulted in our incurring material losses, if similar instances occur in the future, we may incur such losses. Our contracts with our clients typically contain provisions that require us to keep confidential the information generated from the studies we conduct. In the event the confidentiality of such information is compromised, whether by unauthorized access or other breaches, we could be exposed to significant harm, including termination of customer contracts, damage to our customer relationships, damage to our reputation and potential legal claims from customers, employees and other parties. In addition, we may face investigations by government regulators and agencies as a result of a breach. If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may be adversely impacted. During the last two decades, we have steadily expanded our business through numerous acquisitions, including our recent acquisitions of HemaCare, Cellero and Distributed Bio and our recently announced planned acquisition of Cognate BioServices, Inc. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions. Acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include: • difficulties in achieving business and financial success (including as a result of COVID-19 pandemic and the long-term economic impact of the pandemic); • difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products, information technology platforms, technologies or pre-existing relationships with our clients, distributors and suppliers; • challenges with developing and operating new businesses, including those that are materially different from our existing businesses and that may require the development or acquisition of new internal capabilities and expertise; • potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller or the insurance we acquire in connection with the transaction; • loss of key employees; • the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; 18 • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • a more expansive regulatory environment; • acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of our existing shareholders; • differences in foreign business practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; • new technologies and products may be developed that cause businesses or assets we acquire to become less valuable; and • disagreements or disputes with prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service or product that may result in litigation expenses and diversion of our management’s attention. If an acquired business, technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some of the same risks exist when we decide to sell a business, site or product line. In addition, divestitures could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products, and personnel; diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture. We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our businesses (including specific product lines and service offerings) to determine whether any divestitures are appropriate. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets and which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms, and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business, site or product line or service offering and, as a result, we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the divestiture. Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates. A significant part of our revenue is derived from operations outside the U.S. We expect that international revenue will continue to account for a significant percentage of our total revenue for the foreseeable future. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could materially adversely impact our results. Foreign currencies we receive for sales and in which we record expenses outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar, resulting in a reduction in the amount of revenue and cash flow (and an increase in the amount of expenses) that we recognize and causing fluctuations in reported financial results. We also carry foreign currency exposure associated with differences between where we conduct business. For example, certain contracts are frequently denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts. Where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations results from the currency translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, as well as from the exposure associated with transactions of our subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency other than the respective subsidiary’s functional currency. While our financial results are reported in U.S. Dollars, the financial statements of many of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency. During consolidation, these results are translated into U.S. Dollars by applying appropriate exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar relative to the local currencies in which our foreign subsidiaries report could cause significant fluctuations in our reported results. Moreover, as exchange rates vary, revenue and other operating results may differ materially from our expectations. Adjustments resulting from financial statement translations are included as a separate component of shareholders’ equity. Other risks associated with our international business include: • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate, including implications of Brexit and the COVID-19 pandemic; 19 • potentially negative consequences from changes in U.S. and/or foreign tax laws, or interpretations and enforcement thereof, notably tax regulations issued and to-be-issued with respect to U.S. Tax Reform and the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directives I and II, and the creation of the Joint Chiefs of Global Tax Enforcement; • potential international conflicts, including terrorist acts; • exchange controls, adverse tax consequences and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the U.S.; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of COVID-19 pandemic related suspensions of operations, work stoppages and/or strikes, as well as violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act and the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic); • the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including those relating to the COVID-19 pandemic); • unfavorable labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions (including those relating to the COVID-19 pandemic); • longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19); and • compliance with export controls, import requirements and other trade regulations, including those relating to certain products of which there is limited supply. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, as mentioned above, we are subject to compliance with the FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their third-party intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees, distributors and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations might be affected by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, and have been (and will continue to be) affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We depend on our customers and facilities for the continued operation of our business. While we maintain disaster recovery plans, they might not adequately protect us. Despite any precautions we take for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events, including terrorist attack, a pandemic (including the COVID-19 pandemic), epidemic or outbreak of a disease, hurricanes, fire, floods and ice and snow storms, could result in damage to and closure of our or our customers’ facilities or the infrastructure on which such facilities rely. As described herein, the COVID-19 pandemic has already, and will continue to, materially disrupt our operations, though the full extent of such impact remains uncertain. Such disruptions could include significant delays in the shipments of our products, reduce our capacity to provide services, adversely impact unique manufacturing capabilities, result in our customers’ inability to pay for our products or services and, ultimately, result in the loss of revenue and clients. Although we carry business interruption insurance policies and typically have provisions in our contracts that protect us in certain events, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event affecting us or our customers could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial performance. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business. The products and services that we provide our clients are essential to the drug discovery, development and manufacturing processes, and a significant amount are mandated by law. Notwithstanding, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for valid research purposes. Historically, our core research model activities with rats, mice and other rodents have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, including shareholder proposals and attempts to disrupt air carriers from transporting research models, impacting the industry. This has included periodic demonstrations near facilities operated by us and at our annual meetings, as well as shareholder proposals we received for some of our past Annual Meetings of Shareholders. 20 Furthermore, the habitat of certain animals used for research purposes may be located in or near certain environmentally protected areas or conservation areas. Activities conducted by us or any of our agents within these areas may be legally challenged and result in similar negative attention and action from environmental protection activists, including advocacy for the expansion of environmental restrictions applicable to such areas. Any negative attention, threats, acts of vandalism or legal action directed against our animal research or procurement activities, or our third-party service providers, such as our airline carriers or suppliers, or that restrict our or their ability to access protected or conservation areas, could impair our ability to operate our business efficiently. Industry Risk Factors A reduction in demand may adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant decrease in drug R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as by academic institutions, government laboratories or private foundations. Similarly, economic factors and industry trends that affect our clients in these industries (including the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19) also affect their R&D budgets and, consequentially, our business as well. Our clients include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Our ability to continue to grow and win new business is dependent in large part upon the ability and willingness of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries to continue to spend on molecules in the non-clinical phases of R&D (and in particular discovery and safety assessment) and to outsource the products and services we provide. Furthermore, our clients (particularly larger biopharmaceutical companies) continue to search for ways to maximize the return on their investments with a focus on lowering R&D costs per drug candidate. Fluctuations in the expenditure amounts in each phase of the R&D budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. R&D budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities (including available resources of our biotechnology clients, particularly those that are cash-negative, who may be highly focused on rationing their liquid assets in a challenging funding environment), general economic conditions, institutional budgetary policies and the impact of government regulations, including potential drug pricing legislation. Available funding for biotechnology clients in particular may be affected by the capital markets, investment objectives of venture capital investors and priorities of biopharmaceutical industry sponsors. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently been influencing R&D budgets at our clients, please see the sections entitled “Our Strategy” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Further, our Research Products operations are structured to produce particular blood products based on customers’ existing demand, and perceived potential changes in demand, for these products. Sudden or unexpected changes in demand for these products could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Increasing demand could harm relationships with customers if we are unable to alter production capacity, or purchase products from other suppliers, to fill orders adequately. This could result in a decrease in overall revenue and profits. The impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19 caused us to temporarily suspend blood donations, which have since resumed, at our Research Products facilities, further limiting our ability to respond to changes in demand. Lack of access to sufficient capital, or lack of adequate time to properly (or the failure to adequately) respond to changes in demand, could result in declining revenue and profits, as customers transfer to other suppliers. A reduction or delay in government funding of R&D may adversely affect our business. A portion of revenue, predominantly in our RMS segment, is derived from clients at academic institutions and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) and similar domestic and international agencies, which can be difficult to forecast. We also sell directly to the NIH and these other agencies. Government funding of R&D is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Our revenue may be adversely affected if our clients delay purchases as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals, included reduced allocations to government agencies that fund R&D activities. Government proposals to reduce or eliminate budgetary deficits have sometimes included reduced allocations to the NIH and other government agencies that fund R&D activities, or NIH funding may not be directed towards projects and studies that require the use of our products and services, both of which could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Furthermore, changes in government budgetary priorities as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19 could reduce government funding of R&D that is unrelated to the disease, which could adversely affect our business and our financial results. 21 Several of our product and service offerings are dependent on a limited source of supply that, when interrupted, adversely affects our business. We depend on a limited international source of supply for certain products, such as large research models. Disruptions to their continued supply from time to time arise from health problems (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the spread of other diseases), export or import laws/restrictions or embargoes, tariffs, international trade regulations, foreign government or economic instability, severe weather conditions, increased competition among suppliers for models, disruptions to the air travel system, activist campaigns, commercial disputes, supplier insolvency, geopolitical disputes, measures intended to slow the spread of COVID-19 or other ordinary course or unanticipated events. Any disruption of supply could materially harm our business if we cannot remove the disruption or are unable to secure an alternative or secondary supply source on comparable commercial terms. For example, as with other industry participants, certain of our activities rely on a sufficient supply of large research models, which has seen increasing demand as compared to supply in 2020 and into 2021 due to a variety of factors. First, the surge of research relating to COVID-19 has increased short term demand. Second, China supplies a significant portion of certain critical large research models, which have been subject to geographic export restrictions applicable to many animal species since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we continue to take steps to find alternative supply channels and lock in supply with preferred sources through multi-year and/or minimum commitment contracts, such mitigating efforts may not prove successful at ensuring a steady and timely supply or may require (and in the past have required) us to pay significantly higher prices for such products during periods of global shortage or restrictions on the transportation of products. Limited global supply or regional restrictions on transportation for certain products may require us to source products from non-preferred vendors, which may not be successful. In addition, reductions in global air transportation routes may result in sourcing alternative transportation at an increased cost. An inability to obtain a sufficient and timely supply of critical products could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. Further, our Research Products business depends on the availability of appropriate donors. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19, we temporarily suspended blood donations at one of our Research Products facilities. Regulations intended to reduce the risk of introducing infectious diseases in the blood supply (including COVID-19) could also result in a decreased pool of potential donors or integrity of inventory. Due to any pandemic, epidemic or outbreak in one or more regions in which our Research Products business operates, the portion of the donor pool that typically donates may be unable, or unwilling to donate, thereby significantly reducing the availability of research products upon which we rely. In addition, health and healthcare concerns among the public may result in a decline in donations. If donor participation declines, we may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to maintain profitability of the Research Products business. Contaminations in our animal populations can damage our inventory, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production, result in decreased sales and cause us to incur additional costs. Our research models and fertile chicken eggs must be free of certain infectious agents, such as certain viruses and bacteria, because the presence of these contaminants can distort or compromise the quality of research results and could adversely impact human or animal health. The presence of these infectious agents in our animal production facilities and certain service operations could disrupt our contaminant-free research model and fertile egg production as well as our animal services businesses, including GEMS, harm our reputation for contaminant-free production and result in decreased sales. There also exists a risk that contaminations from models that we produce may affect our client’s facilities, with similar impact to them for which we could be liable for damages. In some cases, we may produce or import animals carrying infectious agents capable of causing disease in humans; and in the case of such a contamination or undiagnosed infection, there could be a possible risk of human exposure and infection and liability for damages to infected persons. We are also subject to similar contamination risks with respect to our large research models. While some of these models are owned by us and maintained at our facilities, others are reserved for us and maintained at sites operated by the original provider. Accordingly, risk of contamination may be outside of our control, and we depend on the practices and protocols of third parties to ensure a contamination-free environment. A contamination may require extended CDC quarantine with subsequent reduced sales as a result of lost client orders, as well as the potential for complete inventory loss and disinfection of the affected quarantine rooms. Furthermore, while we often negotiate for contractual risk indemnification, the third party may refuse to fulfill its indemnification obligation or may be unable to as a result of insolvency or other impediments. Contaminations are unanticipated and difficult to predict and could adversely impact our financial results. If they occur, contaminations typically require cleaning up, renovating, disinfecting, retesting and restarting production or services. Such clean-ups result in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs, and reduced sales as a result of lost client orders and potentially credits for prior shipments. In addition to microbiological contaminations, the potential for genetic mix-ups or mis-matings also 22 exists and may require us to restart the applicable colonies, and would likely result in inventory loss, additional start-up costs and possibly reduced sales. Contaminations also expose us to risks that clients will request compensation for damages in excess of our contractual indemnification requirements. Further, many of our operations are comprised of complex mechanical systems that are subject to periodic failure, including aging fatigue. Such failures are unpredictable, and while we have made significant capital expenditures designed to create redundancy within these mechanical systems, strengthen our biosecurity, improve our operating procedures to protect against such contaminations, and replace impaired systems and equipment in advance of such events, failures and/or contaminations may still occur. The outsourcing trend in non-clinical (discovery and safety assessment) stages of drug discovery and development may decrease, which could impair our growth. Over the past decade, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have generally increased their outsourcing of non-clinical research support activities, such as discovery and safety assessment. While many industry analysts expect the outsourcing trend to continue to increase for the next several years (although with different growth rates for different phases of drug discovery and development), decreases in such outsourcing may result in a diminished growth rate in the sales of any one or more of our service lines and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For additional discussion of the factors that we believe have recently influenced outsourcing demand from our clients, please see the section entitled “Our Strategy” included in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019, filed with the Commission on February 11, 2020. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete for business with other CROs and blood product and therapeutic services companies, as well as internal discovery and development departments within our larger clients, who may have greater resources than ours. We also compete with universities and teaching hospitals for outsourced services. We compete on a variety of factors, including: • reputation for on-time quality performance; • reputation for regulatory compliance; • expertise and experience in multiple specialized areas; • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the drug discovery and development spectrum; • scope and breadth of service and product offerings across the manufacturing support spectrum; • ability to provide flexible and customized solutions to support our clients’ drug discovery, non-clinical development, and manufacturing support needs; • broad geographic availability (with consistent quality); • price/value, spend and flexibility; • technological and scientific expertise and efficient drug development processes; • quality of facilities; • financial stability; • size; • ability to acquire, process, analyze and report data in an accurate manner; and • accessibility of client data through secure portals. If we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. Increased competition might lead to price and other concessions that could adversely affect our operating results. The drug discovery and development services industry has continued to see a trend towards consolidation, particularly among the biotechnology companies, which are targets for each other and for large pharmaceutical companies. If this trend continues, it is likely to produce more competition among the larger companies and CROs generally, with respect to both clients and acquisition candidates. In addition, small, specialized entities considering 23 entering the CRO industries will continue to find lower barriers to entry, and private equity firms may determine that there are opportunities to acquire and consolidate these companies, thus further increasing possible competition. More generally, our competitors or others might develop technologies, services or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future technologies, services or products, or that render our technologies, services or products less competitive or obsolete. If competitors introduce superior technologies, services or products and we cannot make enhancements to ours to remain competitive, our competitive position, and in turn our business, revenue and financial condition, would be materially and adversely affected. In the aggregate, these competitive pressures may affect the attractiveness of our technologies, services or products and could adversely affect our financial results. New technologies may be developed, validated and increasingly used in biomedical research, which could reduce demand for some of our products and services. The scientific and research communities continue to develop methods to improve cellular and animal model systems that would increase the translation to human studies and vice-versa and possibly replace or supplement the use of traditional living animals in biomedical research. Some companies have developed techniques in these areas that may have scientific merit to improve translation between species. In addition, technological improvements to existing or new processes, such as imaging and other translational biomarker technologies, could result in the refinement and utility for the number of animal research models necessary to improve the translation from non-clinical to clinical studies. Further, some companies are developing synthetic alternatives to LAL, which is derived from live animals. It is our strategy to explore new technologies to refine and potentially reduce the use of animal models and animal derived products as new in vitro methods become validated. However, we may not be able to develop new products, inputs or processes effectively or in a timely manner to replace any lost sales. Lastly, other companies or entities may develop research models, inputs or processes with characteristics different than the ones that we produce, and that may be viewed as more desirable by some of our clients. We may not be able to successfully develop and market new services and products. We may seek to develop and market new services and products that complement or expand our existing business or service offerings. We believe our ability to in-license new technologies from third parties will be critical to our ability to offer new products and services to our clients. Our ability to gain access to technologies that we need for new products and services depends, in part, on our ability to convince inventors and their agents or assignees that we can successfully commercialize their inventions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify new technologies of interest to our clients. Even if we are able to identify new technologies of interest, we may not be able to negotiate license agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to develop new services and products and/or create demand for those newly developed services and products, our future business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices could reduce profitability. The cost of collecting, processing and testing blood products has risen significantly in recent years and will likely continue to increase. These cost increases are related to new and improved testing procedures, increased regulatory requirements related to blood safety, and higher staff and supply costs related to collecting and processing blood products. Competition and fixed price contracts may limit our ability to maintain existing operating margins. Some competitors have greater resources than us to sustain periods of marginally profitable or unprofitable sales. Costs increasing more rapidly than market prices may reduce profitability and may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Legal & Regulatory Risk Factors Any failure by us to comply with applicable regulations and related guidance could harm our reputation and operating results, and compliance with new regulations and guidance may result in additional costs. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable regulations could result in the termination of ongoing research or the disqualification of data for submission on behalf of our clients to regulatory authorities. This could harm our reputation, our prospects for future work and our operating results. For example, the issuance of a notice of objectionable observations or a warning letter from the FDA based on a finding of a material violation affecting data integrity by us for GLP or cGMP requirements that are not addressed to the regulatory monitoring authorities’ satisfaction could materially and adversely affect us. If our operations are found to violate any applicable law or other governmental regulations, we might be subject to civil and criminal penalties, damages and fines or the temporary closure of our facilities. Any action against us for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses, divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business and damage our reputation. 24 In recent years FDA has issued guidance that now requires submissions to be presented in a format that conforms with the FDA’s SEND (Standardization for Exchange of Nonclinical Data) standards that apply to our clients’ NDA and IND submissions and require us to provide electronic data in specific formats that will allow for more efficient, higher quality regulatory reviews. Accordingly, our clients expect us to timely deliver their nonclinical data compliant with SEND. Notwithstanding, some of these standards require additional operating and capital expenses that will impact not only us and our industry competitors, but clients in the biomedical research community. Non-compliance with any of these expectations could lead to official action by a government authority, damage to our reputation and a potential loss of business. In addition, regulations and guidance worldwide concerning the production and use of laboratory animals for research purposes continue to evolve. Similarly, guidance has been and continues to be developed for other areas that impact the biomedical research community on both a national and international basis including transportation, mandated contingency planning, euthanasia guidance, import and export requirements of biological materials, health monitoring requirements and the use of disinfectants. Our Research Products business is subject to extensive and complex regulation by federal, state and local governments in the U.S. and in the other countries in which it operates. This business requires us to obtain many licenses, permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates and other types of governmental permissions and to comply with various regulations in every jurisdiction in which we operate. Federal, state and local regulations change often, and new regulations are frequently adopted. Changes in the regulations could require us to change the way in which we operate our business and the cost of compliance with new or changed regulations could be significant. Our donor collection centers are registered with the FDA and the FDA periodically conducts inspections of those facilities and operations. At the conclusion of each inspection, the FDA provides us with a list of observations of regulatory issues discovered during the inspection that could result in additional regulatory action. Failure to comply with the regulations of the FDA could result in sanctions and/or remedies and have a material adverse effect on us. Changes in government regulation or in practices relating to the pharmaceutical or biotechnology industries, including potential healthcare reform, could decrease the need for the services we provide. Governmental agencies throughout the world strictly regulate the drug development process. Our business involves helping our customers navigate these regulatory processes. Accordingly, many regulations, and often new regulations, are expected to result in higher regulatory standards and often additional revenues for companies that service these industries. However, some changes in regulations, such as a relaxation in regulatory requirements or the introduction of streamlined or expedited drug approval procedures, or an increase in regulatory requirements that we have difficulty satisfying or that make our services less competitive, could eliminate or substantially reduce the demand for our services. Although we believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with applicable national, regional and local laws, as well as other accepted guidance used by oversight bodies (including the USDA, the standards set by the International Air Transport Association, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, The Centers for Disease Control, the Department of Transportation, the Department of State, the office of Laboratory Animal Welfare of NIH, the Drug Enforcement Agency, as well as numerous other oversight agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate), failure to comply could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions. In addition, if regulatory authorities were to mandate a significant reduction in safety assessment procedures that utilize laboratory animals (as has been advocated by certain groups), certain segments of our business could be materially adversely affected. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted healthcare reform legislation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), which includes provisions impacting drug manufacturers, such as (1) the expansion of access to health insurance coverage, (2) the expansion of the Medicaid program, (3) the enactment of an industry fee on pharmaceutical companies and (4) the imposition of an excise tax on the sale of medical devices. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, enacted in 2017, repeals the ACA’s individual health insurance mandate, which is considered a key component of the ACA. Since the ACA and its implementation continue to face challenges in Congress and federal courts, and from certain state governments, opposition advocacy groups and some small business organizations, the ultimate effects of this legislation are unclear on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals will be adopted in the future. Implementation of healthcare reform legislation may have certain benefits, but also may contain costs that could limit the profits that can be made from the development of new drugs. This could adversely affect R&D expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, which could in turn decrease the business opportunities available to us both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, new laws or regulations may create a risk of liability, increase our costs or limit our service offerings. 25 Furthermore, if health insurers were to change their practices with respect to reimbursements for pharmaceutical products, our clients may spend less or reduce their growth in spending on R&D. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes at the local, state or federal level, or in laws and regulations in effect in foreign jurisdictions in which we operate or have business relationships, may significantly impact our domestic and foreign businesses and/or those of our clients. Furthermore, modifications to international trade policy, public company reporting requirements, environmental regulation and antitrust enforcement may have a materially adverse impact on us, our suppliers or our clients. We are required to comply with the data privacy and security laws in many jurisdictions. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are required to comply with the data privacy and security laws in many jurisdictions. For example, we are required to comply with the European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which became effective on May 25, 2018 and imposes heightened obligations and enhanced penalties for noncompliance (including up to four percent (4%) of global revenue). The cost of compliance, and the potential for fines and penalties for non-compliance, with GDPR may have a significant adverse effect on our business and operations. Recent legal developments in the EU have created complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EU to the US, including the invalidation of the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework in July 2020 and proposed updates to the EU standard contractual clauses in November 2020. If we are otherwise unable to transfer personal data between and among countries and regions in which we operate, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services, the geographical location or segregation of our relevant systems and operations, and could adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, following the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the EU, we will have to comply with the EU GDPR and the GDPR as implemented in the United Kingdom. The relationship between the United Kingdom and the EU with respect to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, for example around how data can lawfully be transferred between each jurisdiction, which exposes us to further compliance risk. The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA creates new transparency requirements for companies and grants California residents several new rights with regard their personal information. Failure to comply with the CCPA may result in, among other things, significant civil penalties and injunctive relief, or potential statutory or actual damages. In addition, California voters recently approved the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) which modifies the CCPA and will impose additional data protection obligations on companies doing business in California, including granting additional privacy rights to consumers and creating a new state privacy regulator. While the CPRA will not take effect until January 2023, it may impact our business activities and require compliance costs that adversely affect business, operating results, prospects and financial condition. We have made changes to, and investments in, our business practices and will continue to monitor developments and make appropriate changes to help attain compliance with these evolving and complex regulations. Additionally, while collecting research products from donors, we may collect, use, disclose, maintain and transmit donor information in ways that will be subject to many of the numerous state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transmission or confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with U.S., state, local or international environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including regulations issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Environmental Protection Agency, Nuclear Regulatory Agency and Department of Transportation, could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. We are subject to licensing and regulation under laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees and protecting employees from the spread of COVID-19. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on us that may be costly. 26 Changes in U.S. and International Tax Law or material changes in our stock price could have a material adverse impact on our effective tax rate. In 2017, significant U.S. tax law changes from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (U.S. Tax Reform) went into effect and reduced the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, broadened the corporate tax base through the elimination or reduction of deductions, exclusions and credits, limited the ability of U.S. corporations to deduct interest expense and allowed for the repatriation of foreign earnings to the U.S. with a 100% federal dividends received deduction prospectively. In addition, U.S. Tax Reform required a one-time transitional tax on foreign cash equivalents and previously unremitted earnings. There remain certain provisions enacted as part of U.S. Tax Reform which still require clarification and guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Treasury Department. These or other changes in US. tax laws could impact our profits, effective tax rate and cash flows. Additionally, the OECD, the European Commission (EC) and individual taxing jurisdictions have recently focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. The OECD released its comprehensive plan to create an agreed set of rules to address concerns regarding base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS). This initiative resulted in proposed and enacted changes to tax laws in various countries including France, Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands and the U.K. In addition, the OECD and EC and individual countries are examining how taxing rights should be allocated among countries considering the digital economy. Future changes to tax laws or interpretation of tax laws resulting from enacted laws could increase our effective tax rate, which would affect our profitability. We receive substantial tax credits in Canada, from both the Canadian federal and Quebec governments, France and the U.K. Any reduction in the availability or amount of these tax credits or increase to tax rates due to tax law changes or outcomes of tax controversies could have a material adverse effect on our profits, cash flows and effective tax rate. Further, we generally receive a tax deduction upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options by employees, or the vesting of restricted stock and performance share units held by employees. The stock price, timing and amount of the vesting and exercising of share-based compensation could adversely impact our effective tax rate. Contract research services create a risk of liability. As a CRO, we face a range of potential liabilities, which may include: • risks associated with errors or omissions in reporting of study detail in non-clinical studies that may lead to inaccurate reports, which may undermine the usefulness of a study or data from the study, or which may potentially advance studies absent the necessary support or inhibit studies from proceeding to the next level of testing; • risks associated with our possible failure to properly care for our clients’ property, such as research models and samples, study compounds, records, work in progress, other archived materials or goods and materials in transit, while in our possession; • risks that models in our breeding facilities or in facilities that we manage may be infected with diseases that may be harmful and even lethal to them or humans, despite preventive measures for the quarantine and handling of imported animals; • risks that we may have errors and omissions and/or product liabilities related to our products designed to conduct lot release testing of medical devices, injectable drugs, food, beverages and home and beauty products (primarily through our Microbial Solutions business), or in the testing of biologics and other services performed by our Biologics business, which could result in us or our clients failing to identify unsafe or contaminated materials; and • risk of transmitting dangerous infectious diseases, as a result of the failure of our screening and testing processes, or new pathogens that may be undetected by such processes. While we attempt to mitigate these risks through a variety of methods, it is impossible to completely eradicate such risks. In our RMS business, we mitigate these risks to the best of our abilities through our regimen of animal testing, quarantine procedures and veterinary staff vigilance, through which we seek to control the exposure of animal related disease or infections. In our DSA and Manufacturing businesses, we attempt to reduce these risks by contractual risk transfer provisions entitling us to be indemnified by our clients and subject to a limitation of liability, by insurance maintained by our clients and/or by us and by various regulatory requirements we must follow in connection with our business. 27 Contractual risk transfer indemnifications generally do not protect us against liability arising from certain of our own actions, such as negligence or misconduct. We could be materially and adversely affected if we are required to pay damages or bear the costs of defending any claim that is outside any contractual indemnification provision, or if a party does not fulfill its indemnification obligations or the damage is beyond the scope or level of insurance coverage. We also often contractually indemnify our clients (subject to a limitation of liability), similar to the way they indemnify us, and we may be materially adversely affected if we have to fulfill our indemnity obligations. Furthermore, either we or a party required to indemnify us may not be able to maintain such insurance coverage (either at all or on terms acceptable to us). The failure to successfully obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights and defend against challenges to our intellectual property rights could adversely affect us. Many of our services, products and processes rely on intellectual property. In some cases, that intellectual property is owned by another party and licensed to us, sometimes exclusively. To protect our intellectual property rights, we primarily rely upon trade secret law, confidentiality agreements and policies, invention assignments and other contractual arrangements, along with patent, copyright and trademark laws. Existing laws of certain countries outside of the United States in which we operate offer only limited protection, and these are subject to change at any time. In addition, the agreements upon which we rely to protect our intellectual property might be breached, or might not be fully enforceable. Our intellectual property rights might not prevent our competitors from independently developing intellectual property that is similar to or duplicative of ours. Also, enforcing our intellectual property rights might also require substantial time, money and oversight, and we might not be successful in enforcing our rights. If we are unable to obtain or maintain the proprietary rights to our intellectual property, if we are unable to prevent attempted infringement against our intellectual property, or if we are unable to defend against claims that we are infringing on another party’s intellectual property, we could be adversely affected. These adverse effects could include us having to abandon, alter or delay the deployment of products, services or processes that rely on such intellectual property; having to procure and pay for licenses from the holders of intellectual property rights that we seek to use; and having to pay damages, fines, court costs and attorney's fees in connection with intellectual property litigation. Further, the drug discovery and development industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation and these lawsuits will likely continue. Legal proceedings relating to intellectual property are expensive, take significant time, and divert management’s attention from other business concerns, whether we win or lose. If we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. The decision by British voters to exit the European Union may adversely affect our business. The first stage of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union (“Brexit”) took place on January 31, 2020, when the U.K. left the European Union and entered a transition phase. During the transition phase, the U.K. engaged in negotiations with the European Union on the terms of its future trading and other relationships with the European Union. The scope and timing of these negotiations created significant uncertainty. The timing of the agreement reached between the U.K. and the European Union at the end of 2020 continues that uncertainty and, given the need to understand the implications of the agreement and the formalities required in respect of the U.K.’s future relationship with the European Union, we have formed a committee (comprised of senior managers across our business functions) to address key risks among four main themes: (1) trade and customs, (2) employees and immigration, (3) strategy and business planning and (4) legislative changes. That committee will continue until the situation is clarified. Notwithstanding the agreement reached the movement of goods between the U.K. and the remaining member states of the European Union will be subject to additional inspections and documentation checks, leading to possible delays at ports of entry and departure and additional VAT requirements. These changes to the trading relationship between the U.K and European Union would likely result in increased cost of goods imported into and exported from the U.K. and may decrease the profitability of our U.K. and other operations. Additional currency volatility could drive a weaker British pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our U.K. operations and may decrease the profitability of our U.K. operations. A weaker British pound versus the U.S. dollar also causes local currency results of our U.K. operations to be translated into fewer U.S. dollars during a reporting period. Although we are undertaking efforts to mitigate those risks within our control, a failure to adequately mitigate such risks or other factors outside our control could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.” Our by-laws designate the state courts located in the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain actions, including derivative actions, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds 28 favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, other employees, or the Company's stockholders and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of the Company to the Company or the Company’s stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or the Company’s certificate of incorporation or the Company’s by-laws (in each case, as they may be amended from time to time), or (iv) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be a state court located within the state of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware). However, this exclusive forum provision will not apply to suits brought under the federal securities laws for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. If a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our by-laws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could harm our business and financial condition. Furthermore, although we believe the exclusive forum provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law for the specified types of actions and proceedings, this provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company and its directors, officers, or other employees and may discourage lawsuits with respect to such claims. Labor & Employment Risk Factors We depend on key personnel and may not be able to retain these employees, which would harm our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other members of management. James C. Foster, our Chief Executive Officer and President since 1992 and Chairman since 2000, has held various positions with us for four decades. While we entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Foster in 2018, most members of our senior management do not have employment agreements except in jurisdictions outside of the United States where employment contracts are common for most employees. If Mr. Foster or other members of senior management do not continue in their present positions, our business may be adversely impacted. If we are unable to attract, hire or retain key team members or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon attracting and retaining qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. While we have a strong record of employee retention, and we strive to reduce the impact of the potential loss of existing employees by having an established organizational talent review process that identifies successors and potential talent needs, there is still significant competition for qualified personnel in the veterinary, pharmaceutical and biotechnology fields. Therefore, we may not be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel, as well as the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, could harm our business. We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our team members. Our employees are not unionized in the U.S. Employees at some of our European facilities are represented by works councils, employee representative groups and/or unions, which is consistent with local customs for our industry. Our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees. If we fail to maintain good relations with our team members or with the labor organizations, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages, which could adversely affect our financial results. Financial and Accounting Risk Factors Our debt level could adversely affect our business and growth prospects. As of December 26, 2020, we had $2.0 billion of debt and finance leases (debt). In connection with our intended acquisition of Cognate BioServices, Inc., we anticipate increasing our debt to finance a substantial portion of the purchase price of approximately $875 million in cash. Our debt could have significant adverse effects on our business, including making it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing on favorable terms; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the repayment of debt and the interest on this debt; limiting our ability to capitalize on significant business opportunities; and making us more vulnerable to rising interest rates. For additional information regarding our debt, please see Note 9, “Long-Term Debt and Finance Lease Obligations”, included in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The interest rate on our credit facility (Credit Facility), which matures in fiscal year 2023, is linked to LIBOR. As of December 26, 2020, amounts outstanding on our Credit Facility were $146.9 million on our term loan and $814.8 million on our revolving credit facility, for which there is an aggregate available borrowing capacity of $2.05 billion. In 2017, the Financial Conduct 29 Authority (FCA) in the U.K. announced that it would phase out LIBOR as a benchmark by the end of 2021. It is unclear whether new methods of calculating LIBOR will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021, or whether different benchmark rates used to price indebtedness will develop. If LIBOR ceases to exist, the method and rate used to calculate our interest rates and/or payments on our debt in the future may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, or that do not otherwise correlate over time with, the interest rates and/or payments that would have been applicable to our obligations if LIBOR was available in its current form, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. While we continue to take steps to mitigate the impact of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR, such efforts may not prove successful. In addition, the overall financial market may be disrupted as a result of the phase-out or replacement of LIBOR. Disruption in the financial market could also have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets may adversely impact future results of operations. We have intangible assets, including goodwill, on our balance sheet due to our acquisitions of businesses. The initial identification and valuation of these intangible assets and the determination of the estimated useful lives at the time of acquisition involve use of management judgments and estimates. These estimates are based on, among other factors, projections of cash flows that arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses and discount rates based on an analysis of our weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets. Disruptions in global financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of measures intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19) could, among other things, impact the discount rate. Other assumptions used in the valuations and actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows, which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such assets. If the future growth and operating results of our business are not as strong as anticipated, overall macroeconomic or industry conditions deteriorate and/or our market capitalization declines, this could impact the assumptions used in establishing the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets. Should the COVID-19 pandemic have a prolonged impact on our industry, triggering events may arise resulting in intangible asset or goodwill impairments. To the extent goodwill or other intangible assets are impaired, their carrying value will be written down to their implied fair values and a charge will be made to our income from continuing operations. Such an impairment charge could materially and adversely affect our operating results. As of December 26, 2020, the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangibles on our consolidated balance sheet was $2.6 billion. General Risk Factors Since we do not expect to pay any cash dividends for the foreseeable future, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock, and do not anticipate that we will pay any dividends to holders of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, capital requirements, legal requirements, earnings and other factors. Consequently, our shareholders should not rely on dividends to receive a return on their investment. Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Our results of operations in any quarter may vary from quarter to quarter and are influenced by the risks discussed above, as well as: changes in the general global economy; changes in the mix of our products and services; cyclical buying patterns of our clients; the financial performance of our venture capital investments; and the occasional extra week (“53rd week”) that we recognize in a fiscal year (and fourth fiscal quarter thereof) due to our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December. We believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results. Nonetheless, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could negatively affect the market price of our common stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain percentage changes may not recalculate due to rounding. Overview We are a full service, early-stage contract research organization (CRO). For over 70 years, we have been in the business of providing the research models required in research and development of new drugs, devices, and therapies. Over this time, we have built upon our original core competency of laboratory animal medicine and science (research model technologies) to develop a diverse portfolio of discovery and safety assessment services, both Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) and non-GLP, that enable us to support our clients from target identification through non-clinical development. We also provide a suite of products and services to support our clients’ manufacturing activities. Utilizing our broad portfolio of products and services enables our clients to create a more flexible drug development model, which reduces their costs, enhances their productivity and effectiveness, and increases speed to market. Our client base includes all major global biopharmaceutical companies, many biotechnology companies, CROs, agricultural and industrial chemical companies, life science companies, veterinary medicine companies, contract manufacturing companies, medical device companies, and diagnostic and other commercial entities, as well as leading hospitals, academic institutions, and government agencies around the world. We currently operate in over 100 facilities and in over 20 countries worldwide, which numbers exclude our Insourcing Solutions (IS) sites. Segment Reporting Our three reportable segments are Research Models and Services (RMS), Discovery and Safety Assessment (DSA), and Manufacturing Support (Manufacturing). Our RMS reportable segment includes the Research Models, Research Model Services, and Research Products businesses. Research Models includes the commercial production and sale of small research models, as well as the supply of large research models. Research Model Services includes: Genetically Engineered Models and Services (GEMS), which performs contract breeding and other services associated with genetically engineered models; Research Animal Diagnostic Services (RADS), which provides health monitoring and diagnostics services related to research models; and Insourcing Solutions (IS), which provides colony management of our clients’ research operations (including recruitment, training, staffing, and management services). Research Products supplies controlled, consistent, customized primary cells and blood components derived from normal and mobilized peripheral blood, bone marrow, and cord blood. Our DSA reportable segment includes services required to take a drug through the early development process including discovery services, which are non-regulated services to assist clients with the identification, screening, and selection of a lead compound for drug development, and regulated and non-regulated (GLP and non-GLP) safety assessment services. Our Manufacturing reportable segment includes Microbial Solutions, which provides in vitro (non-animal) lot-release testing products, microbial detection products, and species identification services; Biologics Testing Services (Biologics), which performs specialized testing of biologics; and Avian Vaccine Services (Avian), which supplies specific-pathogen-free chicken eggs and chickens. COVID-19 Overview On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a strain of novel coronavirus disease, COVID-19, a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic is dynamic and expanding, and its ultimate scope, duration and effects are uncertain. This pandemic has had and may continue to result in direct and indirect adverse effects on our industry and customers, which in turn has impacted our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in ways that are and are not presently known to us, or that we currently do not expect to present significant risks to our operations or financial results but which may in fact turn out to negatively affect us to a magnitude greater than anticipated. Refer to Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, included herein for risk factors reflecting the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Giving consideration to each of these risk factors, the following is our current estimate and belief of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal year 2020 and how it may continue to affect us in subsequent periods. Business continuity 34 To date, we generally have not experienced significant challenges in implementing our business continuity plans. Many government agencies have provided guidance permitting “essential” or “critical” business operations to remain open. As of the date of this annual report, in the geographies where business restrictions have been imposed, we believe all of our business operations have satisfied the requirements to be designated to be “essential” or “critical” according to the guidance provided by government, health and other regulatory agencies with authority over such matters. As a result, all of our operating sites remain open and adequately staffed as of the date of this annual report. For certain operations or sites experiencing logistical delays, we have experienced some inefficiencies as it relates to completing work or fulfilling orders; however, we do not believe material expenditures will be required or material resource constraints will occur. Logistical delays include a small number of sites that have experienced reduced operations (including as a result of increased employee absenteeism) or voluntarily closed, as well as delays in transportation activities. We have comprehensive business continuity plans in place for each site globally and are continuously updating these to address the evolving COVID-19 pandemic situation. We implemented our initial plans in China beginning in January 2020, and have continuously refined our plans for other regions as the virus has spread. We have encouraged and expressed our expectations that employees work remotely whenever possible; and for those employees who need to come into our sites to fulfill their responsibilities, we are adhering to guidelines from government, health, and other regulatory agencies. This includes social distancing, flexible scheduling such as split shifts, restricting visitors, enhanced cleaning, and providing personal protective equipment (PPE), such as masks and gloves, to employees. Due to the nature of our business, many employees already work in biosecure environments that require PPE and adhere to other procedures to safely accomplish their daily responsibilities. Accordingly, to date, we believe we have been able to efficiently implement the additional safety precautions. Supply chain We are focused on ensuring that we have adequate inventory and supplies on hand given the potential disruption of the COVID-19 pandemic to our suppliers and their supply chain. Accordingly, we have and expect to continue to increase inventory and supplies in 2021. We proactively engaged with our suppliers beginning in January 2020 to limit any potential disruption to our supply chain. However, notwithstanding generally successful efforts to maintain supply chain continuity, we have experienced increased costs and delays throughout our supply chain during the pandemic. Financial condition and results of our global operations We are a global company that operates in over 100 facilities and in over 20 countries worldwide. As we perform business across various borders, we are experiencing a continuum of impacts in each location as the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the global economy in different phases. We are continuing to see demand for products and services across all of our businesses, although as described below the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the level of demand varies with our different businesses. While there is uncertainty, our clients are still in need of the products and services we provide to biomedical research to advance discovery and develop new therapies for the treatment of disease, including the COVID-19 pandemic. Due to certain restrictions in place at the various sites of our clients and suppliers (including client and supplier site closures), there have been challenges relating to timely receiving and shipping products globally in all businesses. Should these restrictions continue, demand/supply issues may persist and could impact revenue growth, operating income (including operating income margins) and cash flows. We have observed some impact due to constraints from internal site restrictions, remote work, resources, and productivity. However, we believe the impact to us has not been as significant as to companies in many other industries because of the nature of our businesses, the classification of our businesses as essential or critical, as the case may be, and our business continuity plans. Our RMS business was meaningfully impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal year 2020. Demand for research models declined due primarily to the physical shutdown of our client’s facilities, principally academic institutions. While many of our clients are deemed essential businesses as well, we experienced a slowdown, initially in China in January 2020, and then across Europe and North America later in the first fiscal quarter of 2020, as measures were implemented by various governments to slow the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. This trend of reduced demand for research models continued during the second fiscal quarter of 2020, which negatively impacted revenue, operating income, operating income margins, and cash flows. During the third fiscal quarter of 2020, we experienced an increase in demand as our clients reopened impacted sites and resumed their research activity, which positively impacted revenue, operating income, operating income margins, and cash flows, which continued through the fourth fiscal quarter of 2020. Research models services, specifically our GEMS and Insourcing Solutions businesses, experienced higher revenues during fiscal year 2020 compared to the corresponding prior period and were not as adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Our DSA business was not significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal year 2020. Towards the end of the first fiscal quarter of 2020, we experienced some client work shifting towards subsequent quarters of fiscal year 2020 due to the 35 various actions and restrictions put in place by governments around the world intended to slow the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. The work performed in our Discovery Services and Safety Assessment businesses are largely dependent on our internal sites being open. Therefore, to the extent that clients require work to be completed, we have been able to continue to meet client demands and perform the work so long as our work force at the specific site the work is done is not significantly adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. This trend is expected to continue as government actions to slow the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to subside, employees return to work, and economies across the world reopen. Costs of supply have and may continue to increase as we procure the materials required to perform our work. Our Manufacturing business was not significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal year 2020, however, some of our customers experienced disruptions in their manufacturing operations. This resulted in delays in instrument installations in our Microbial Solutions business, which began during the first half of fiscal 2020 and continued, to a lesser extent, during the second half of fiscal 2020. Demand for certain Manufacturing products was not significantly impacted, such as Microbial Solutions endotoxin products and Avian products. Our Biologics testing facilities remain open and performing services for our clients. Similar to our other services businesses, our ability to perform work is contingent on our internal facilities and our work force not being significantly adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Liquidity, capital and financial resources We require cash to fund working capital needs as well as capital expansion, acquisitions, venture capital and strategic investments, debt obligations, leases, and pension obligations. The principal sources of liquidity have been cash flows from operations, supplemented by long-term borrowings. In fiscal year 2019, we issued $500 million Senior Notes, repaid part of our term loan for $500 million, and increased our multi-currency revolving facility by $500 million, from $1.55 billion to $2.1 billion. As of December 26, 2020, we had $2.0 billion of debt and finance leases outstanding, of which $50.2 million is current. Available on the revolving line of credit (Revolver) is $1.2 billion, which matures on March 26, 2023 and does not require scheduled payments before that date should additional borrowings occur. The term loan facility matures in 19 quarterly installments with the last installment due March 26, 2023. The Senior Notes become due in 2026 and 2028. Due to the uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we borrowed an additional $150 million from the Revolver during the first fiscal quarter of 2020 to protect against any prolonged adverse impacts on liquidity markets. While there remained uncertainty throughout fiscal 2020, we did not need to use these borrowings to fund operations and these funds were repaid during the third fiscal quarter of 2020. We expect to generate cash inflows from our operating activities sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs as well as to service our debt, pension, and venture capital obligations. Due to this higher debt, we incurred immaterially higher interest expense. We did not need to borrow additional funds during 2020. As of December 26, 2020 there is significant capacity on the remaining Revolver. Accordingly, we do not anticipate a material risk of non-compliance with our debt covenants based on our current estimate of future earnings. To protect against adverse liquidity concerns, there are various mechanisms for us to improve cash flows. During the second fiscal quarter of 2020 we implemented certain cost reduction plans including delaying compensation related increases, implementing hiring restrictions, reducing working hours, reducing all non-essential travel, and reducing certain discretionary spending. Beginning in the third fiscal quarter of 2020, we reinstated certain annual compensation increases, which had previously been delayed from the beginning of the second quarter of 2020. Additionally, we had temporarily slowed our investment activity, including acquisitions and capital projects, but have since resumed certain of those activities, including the acquisitions of Cellero, LLC (Cellero) during the third fiscal quarter of 2020 and Distributed Bio during the first fiscal quarter of 2021. As of the date these financial statements are issued, based on our current and expected liquidity position, we do not believe there is significant uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. Recoverability and/or impairment of assets The COVID-19 pandemic did not, and is not expected to, impact the ability to timely account for assets on our balance sheet. There are judgments involved as it relates to reviewing our allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, and valuations/recovery of investments. We believe we have the necessary support for estimates derived for these account balances. We have reviewed the collectability and valuation of the assets through the date of financial statement issuance, noting no significant recoverability concerns or any impairments identified. Gains and losses on certain investments in venture capital funds are recorded on a quarterly lag due to the availability of the funds’ financial information, which is consistent with our venture capital investment accounting policy described in this annual report. We did not identify any triggering events when reviewing impairment indicators for our goodwill and long-lived assets (tangible and intangible) that would indicate an impairment may exist. Should a prolonged disruption occur where there is a material change from our current expectation of future cash flows, we could experience additional write-offs of client receivables or impairments to certain asset balances due to 36 collectability and valuation issues. Review of impairment indicators and quantifying any impact will continue to be a focus throughout fiscal year 2021. Internal controls over financial reporting in a remote work environment Internal controls over financial reporting are a focus for us to ensure they continue to be designed and operating effectively. As of December 26, 2020 and through the issuance of these financial statements, we did not have any material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting. For personnel responsible for internal control activities and working remote, the ability to work effectively enabled us to continue to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. System and efficiency programs implemented in recent years, as well as those implemented as part of business continuity plans, have enabled us to effectively complete our financial reporting process in a similar way we completed it prior to the COVID-19 pandemic despite a largely remote working environment. Although there is uncertainty over the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic disruption, we do not anticipate any adverse impact to relevant systems or to the operating effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. Recent Acquisitions Our strategy is to augment internal growth of existing businesses with complementary acquisitions. We continued to make strategic acquisitions designed to expand our portfolio of products and services to support the drug discovery and development continuum. Our recent acquisitions are described below. On February 17, 2021, we announced that we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Cognate BioServices, Inc. for approximately $875 million in cash, subject to customary closing adjustments. Cognate BioServices, Inc. is a cell and gene therapy CDMO offering comprehensive manufacturing solutions for cell therapies, as well as for the development and production of plasmid DNA and viral vectors for gene therapies. The planned acquisition of Cognate BioServices, Inc. will create a scientific partner for cell and gene therapy development, testing, and manufacturing, providing clients with an integrated solution from basic research through cGMP production. The proposed transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2021. The proposed acquisition and associated fees are expected to be financed through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility under the multi-currency revolving facility. This business is expected to be reported as part of our Manufacturing reportable segment. On December 31, 2020 (fiscal year 2021), we acquired Distributed Bio, Inc (Distributed Bio), a next-generation antibody discovery company with technologies specializing in enhancing the probability of success for delivering high-quality, readily formattable antibody fragments to support antibody and cell and gene therapy candidates to biopharmaceutical clients. The acquisition of Distributed Bio expands our capabilities with an innovative, large-molecule discovery platform, and creates an integrated, end-to-end platform for therapeutic antibody and cell and gene therapy discovery and development. The preliminary purchase price of Distributed Bio was approximately $83 million in cash, with additional contingent payments of up to $21 million based on future performance. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business will be reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. On August 6, 2020, we acquired Cellero, LLC (Cellero), a provider of cellular products for cell therapy developers and manufacturers worldwide. The addition of Cellero enhances our unique, comprehensive solutions for the high-growth cell therapy market, strengthening our ability to help accelerate clients’ critical programs from basic research and proof-of-concept to regulatory approval and commercialization. It also expands our access to high-quality, human-derived biomaterials with Cellero’s donor sites in the United States. The purchase price for Cellero was $37.4 million in cash. The acquisition was funded through available cash. This business is reported as part of our RMS reportable segment. On January 3, 2020, we acquired HemaCare Corporation (HemaCare), a business specializing in the production of human-derived cellular products for the cell therapy market. The acquisition of HemaCare expands our comprehensive portfolio of early-stage research and manufacturing support solutions to encompass the production and customization of high-quality, human derived cellular products to better support clients’ cell therapy programs. The purchase price of HemaCare was $379.8 million in cash. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. This business is reported as part of our RMS reportable segment. On April 29, 2019, we acquired Citoxlab, a non-clinical CRO, specializing in regulated safety assessment services, non-regulated discovery services, and medical device testing. With operations in Europe and North America, the acquisition of Citoxlab further strengthens our position as a leading, global, early-stage CRO by expanding our scientific portfolio and geographic footprint, which enhances our ability to partner with clients across the drug discovery and development continuum. The purchase price for Citoxlab was $527.1 million in cash. The acquisition was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility. Citoxlab is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. 37 On April 3, 2018, we acquired MPI Research, a non-clinical CRO providing comprehensive testing services to biopharmaceutical and medical device companies worldwide. The acquisition enhances our position as a leading global early-stage CRO by strengthening our ability to partner with clients across the drug discovery and development continuum. The purchase price for MPI Research was $829.7 million in cash. The acquisition was funded by borrowings on our Credit Facility as well as the issuance of $500.0 million of 5.5% Senior Notes due 2026 (2026 Senior Notes) in an unregistered offering. MPI Research is reported as part of our DSA reportable segment. Fiscal Quarters Our fiscal year is typically based on 52-weeks, with each quarter composed of 13 weeks ending on the last Saturday on, or closest to, March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. A 53 rd week was included in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, which is occasionally necessary to align with a December 31 calendar year-end. Business Trends The global economy faced unprecedented challenges in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as did our Company, but we believe the resilience of our business model has enabled us to weather these challenges extremely well. This resilience was the result of comprehensive business continuity plans that enabled us to keep our operating sites open and adequately staffed; the global scale, broad scientific capabilities, and flexible outsourcing solutions that we are able to offer clients; and the commitment of our global employees. While several of our businesses experienced a significant, short-term decline in demand associated with COVID-19-related disruptions at our clients’ sites, primarily in the RMS reportable segment and principally in the second quarter of 2020, we also benefited from persistent client demand across many of our businesses, including in our DSA reportable segment, driven by robust biotech funding and continued innovation that is generating scientific breakthroughs across multiple therapeutic areas, including for COVID-19 therapeutics. Many of our pharmaceutical and biotechnology clients intensified their use of strategic outsourcing during 2020 to overcome challenges at their own sites and move their early-stage research programs forward during the pandemic. Small and mid-size biotechnology clients continued to be the primary driver of revenue growth as these clients benefited from record biotechnology funding levels in fiscal year 2020, from capital markets, partnering with large biopharmaceutical companies, and investment by venture capital, as the COVID-19 pandemic enhanced the global focus on scientific innovation and emphasized greater investment in their preclinical pipelines. Many of our large biopharmaceutical clients have continued to increase investments in their drug discovery and early-stage development efforts and have strengthened their relationships with both CROs, like us, and biotechnology companies to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. Clients continue to seek to outsource larger portions of their early-stage drug research programs to us, which is leading to new business opportunities as clients adopt more flexible and efficient research and development models. The primary result of these trends was robust revenue growth within our DSA reportable segment in fiscal year 2020, which experienced only a limited impact related to COVID-19 and benefited from incremental outsourcing activity from our clients as they sought a reliable CRO partner to help move their programs forward amidst the challenges of COVID-19. Robust Safety Assessment revenue growth in fiscal year 2020 was primarily driven by increased demand and pricing. We believe the acquisitions of Citoxlab (2019), MPI Research (2018), and WIL Research (2016) have solidified our scientific capabilities and global scale, and the breadth and depth of our scientific expertise, quality, and responsiveness remain key criteria when our clients make the decision to outsource to us. As biotechnology funding remains robust and our clients continue to pursue their goal of more efficient and effective drug research to bring innovative new therapies to market, they are evaluating outsourcing more of their research programs, such as discovery services. We continued to enhance our Discovery Services capabilities to provide clients with a comprehensive portfolio that enables them to start working with us at the earliest stages of the discovery process. We have accomplished this through acquisitions, including Distributed Bio in December 2020 (fiscal year 2021), Citoxlab’s discovery services, KWS BioTest in January 2018 and Brains On-Line in August 2017, and through adding cutting-edge capabilities to our discovery toolkit through partnerships, such as BitBio, Cypre, and Fios Genomics. In fiscal year 2020, demand in our Discovery Services business also increased significantly, as our efforts to enhance our scientific capabilities, provide clients with flexible partnering models, and become a trusted scientific partner for our clients’ early-stage programs have been successful. Overall, demand for our products and services that support our clients’ manufacturing activities was strong in fiscal year 2020. Our Biologics business continued to benefit from increased demand for services associated with the growing proportion of biologic drugs in the pipeline and on the market, including cell and gene therapies, as well as COVID-19 therapeutics. Demand for our Microbial Solutions was affected by delayed instrument installations, as certain client sites were inaccessible due to 38 COVID-19 restrictions. We were able to complete additional instrument installations and the revenue growth rate for Microbial Solutions did improve as the year progressed. Demand for our Research Models and Services was negatively impacted in fiscal year 2020, particularly during the second quarter. Worldwide demand for research models declined sharply, principally in the second quarter, as COVID-19-related restrictions, such as stay-at-home orders, disrupted our clients’ research activities. Many academic clients closed their research sites temporarily, and there was also a significant reduction in order activity from both large biopharmaceutical and smaller biotechnology clients as these clients reduced their on-site activities. Clients began to resume more normalized research activities in the third quarter, and demand for research models began to rebound. Demand for research models services experienced very little impact from COVID-19 in fiscal year 2020, and these businesses performed very well, particularly for our IS and GEMS businesses. We are confident that research models and services will remain essential tools for our clients’ drug discovery and early-stage development efforts. In 2020, we enhanced the RMS business’ growth profile and portfolio of critical research tools that we are able to supply through the acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero, premier providers of human-derived cellular products used in cell therapies. HemaCare and Cellero together generated revenue of $48.1 million in fiscal year 2020, as robust, underlying client demand in the cell therapy market was partially offset by COVID-19-related disruptions. Overview of Results of Operations and Liquidity Revenue for fiscal year 2020 was $2.9 billion compared to $2.6 billion in fiscal year 2019. The 2020 increase as compared to the corresponding period in 2019 was $302.7 million, or 11.5%, and was primarily due to both growth in our DSA and Manufacturing segments, as discussed in the above “Business Trends” section, as well as the recent acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero in our RMS segment, and by the positive effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates when compared to the corresponding period in 2019; partially offset by a reduction in RMS product revenue due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic when compared to the corresponding period in 2019. In fiscal year 2020, our operating income and operating income margin were $432.7 million and 14.8%, respectively, compared with $351.2 million and 13.4%, respectively, in fiscal year 2019. The increases in operating income and operating income margin were primarily due to contributions from our DSA and Manufacturing segments and lower acquisition related costs compared to the corresponding period in 2019, partially offset by lower RMS operating income and operating income margin due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as increased amortization of intangible assets related to our recent acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero. Net income attributable to common shareholders increased to $364.3 million in fiscal year 2020, from $252.0 million in the corresponding period of 2019. The increase in net income attributable to common shareholders of $112.3 million was primarily due to higher operating income mentioned above and higher net gains on our venture capital investments compared to the corresponding period in 2019 . During fiscal year 2020, our cash flows from operations was $546.6 million compared with $480.9 million for fiscal year 2019. The increase was driven by higher net income and certain favorable changes in working capital items, including favorable timing of certain government deferrals of payroll tax payments, and compensation related items; partially offset by the timing of vendor and supplier payments and collections of net contract balances from contracts with customers (collectively trade receivables, net; deferred revenue; and customer contract deposits); and certain pension related payments compared to the same period in 2019. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S.). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods and related disclosures. These estimates and assumptions are monitored and analyzed by us for changes in facts and circumstances, and material changes in these estimates could occur in the future. We base our estimates on our historical experience, trends in the industry, and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the application of our accounting policies, each of which require significant judgments and estimates on the part of management, are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant 39 Accounting Policies”, to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We believe the following represent our critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements: Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when, or as, obligations under the terms of a contract are satisfied, which occurs when control of the promised products or services is transferred to customers. Revenue is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for transferring products or services to a customer (“transaction price”). To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we estimate the amount of variable consideration that should be included in the transaction price utilizing the amount to which we expect to be entitled. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. Estimates of variable consideration and determination of whether to include estimated amounts in the transaction price are based largely on an assessment of our anticipated performance and all information (historical, current and forecasted) that is reasonably available. Sales, value add, and other taxes collected on behalf of third parties are excluded from revenue. When determining the transaction price of a contract, an adjustment is made if payment from a customer occurs either significantly before or significantly after performance, resulting in a significant financing component. Generally, we do not extend payment terms beyond one year. Applying the practical expedient, we do not assess whether a significant financing component exists if the period between when we perform our obligations under the contract and when the customer pays is one year or less. Our contracts do not generally contain significant financing components. Contracts with customers may contain multiple performance obligations. For such arrangements, the transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated relative standalone selling prices of the promised products or services underlying each performance obligation. We determine standalone selling prices based on the price at which the performance obligation is sold separately. If the standalone selling price is not observable through past transactions, we estimate the standalone selling price taking into account available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines related to the performance obligations. Contracts are often modified to account for changes in contract specifications and requirements. Contract modifications exist when the modification either creates new, or changes existing, enforceable rights and obligations. Generally, when contract modifications create new performance obligations, the modification is considered to be a separate contract and revenue is recognized prospectively. When contract modifications change existing performance obligations, the impact on the existing transaction price and measure of progress for the performance obligation to which it relates is generally recognized as an adjustment to revenue (either as an increase in or a reduction of revenue) on a cumulative catch-up basis. Product revenue is generally recognized when the customer obtains control of our product, which occurs at a point in time, and may be upon shipment or upon delivery based on the contractual shipping terms of a contract. Service revenue is generally recognized over time as the services are delivered to the customer based on the extent of progress towards completion of the performance obligation. The selection of the method to measure progress towards completion requires judgment and is based on the nature of the products or services to be provided. Depending on which better depicts the transfer of value to the customer, we generally measure our progress using either cost-to-cost (input method) or right-to-invoice (output method). We use the cost-to-cost measure of progress when it best depicts the transfer of value to the customer which occurs as we incur costs on our contract, generally related to fixed fee service contracts. Under the cost-to-cost measure of progress, the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on the ratio of costs incurred to date to the total estimated costs at completion of the performance obligation. The costs calculation includes variables such as labor hours, allocation of overhead costs, research model costs, and subcontractor costs. Revenue is recorded proportionally as costs are incurred. The right-to-invoice measure of progress is generally related to rate per unit contracts, as the extent of progress towards completion is measured based on discrete service or time-based increments, such as samples tested or labor hours incurred. Revenue is recorded in the amount invoiced since that amount corresponds directly to the value of our performance to date. During fiscal year 2020, $1.8 billion, or approximately 60%, of our total revenue recognized ($2.9 billion) is DSA service revenue transferred over time. Income Taxes We prepare and file income tax returns based on our interpretation of each jurisdiction’s tax laws and regulations. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we estimate our income tax liability in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate by estimating our actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of 40 items for tax and financial reporting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. Significant management judgment is required in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. In performing this assessment, we consider whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. In making this determination, under the applicable financial accounting standards, we are allowed to consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and the effects of tax planning strategies. In the event that actual results differ from our estimates, we adjust our estimates in future periods and we may need to establish a valuation allowance, which could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Our valuation allowance increased by $24.9 million from $310.0 million as of December 28, 2019 to $334.8 million as of December 26, 2020. The increase is primarily a result of foreign exchange impact on net operating losses and corresponding valuation allowances relating to the Company’s 2019 financing structure changes. We account for uncertain tax positions using a “more-likely-than-not” threshold for recognizing and resolving uncertain tax positions. We evaluate uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis and consider various factors, that include, but are not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, the effective settlement of matters subject to audit, information obtained during in process audit activities and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We adjust the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts surrounding the uncertain positions. Our liabilities for uncertain tax positions can be relieved only if the contingency becomes legally extinguished through either payment to the taxing authority or the expiration of the statute of limitations, the recognition of the benefits associated with the position meet the “more-likely-than-not” threshold or the liability becomes effectively settled through the controversy process. We consider matters to be effectively settled once the taxing authority has completed all of its required or expected examination procedures, including all appeals and administrative reviews; we have no plans to appeal or litigate any aspect of the tax position; and we believe that it is highly unlikely that the taxing authority would re-examine the related tax position. We also accrue for potential interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We generally receive a tax deduction upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options by employees, or the vesting of restricted stock and performance share units held by employees. The stock price, timing, and amount of vesting and exercising of stock-based compensation could materially impact our current tax expense. In 2017, significant U.S. tax law changes from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (U.S. Tax Reform) went into effect and reduced the U.S. federal statutory tax rate, broadened the corporate tax base through the elimination or reduction of deductions, exclusions and credits, limited the ability of U.S. corporations to deduct interest expense and allowed for the repatriation of foreign earnings to the U.S. with a 100% federal dividends received deduction prospectively. In addition, U.S. Tax Reform required a one-time transitional tax on foreign cash equivalents and previously unremitted earnings. Our accounting for the elements of U.S. Tax Reform is complete. We have made an accounting policy election to treat taxes due on the GILTI inclusion as a current period expense. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We use assumptions and estimates in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. The determination of the fair value of intangible assets, which represent a significant portion of the purchase price in many of our acquisitions, requires the use of significant judgment with regard to (i) the fair value; and (ii) whether such intangibles are amortizable or non-amortizable and, if the former, the period and the method by which the intangible asset will be amortized. We utilize commonly accepted valuation techniques, such as the income approach and the cost approach, as appropriate, in establishing the fair value of intangible assets. Typically, key assumptions include projections of cash flows that arise from identifiable intangible assets of acquired businesses as well as discount rates based on an analysis of the weighted average cost of capital, adjusted for specific risks associated with the assets. In our recent acquisitions, customer relationship intangible assets (also referred to as client relationships) have been the most significant identifiable assets acquired. To determine the fair value of the acquired client relationships, we utilized the multiple period excess earnings model (a commonly accepted valuation technique), which includes the following key assumptions: projections of cash flows from the acquired entities, which included future revenue growth rates, operating income margins, and customer attrition rates; as well as discount rates based on an analysis of the acquired entities’ weighted average cost of capital. The value of client relationships acquired were $170.4 million for HemaCare and $14.7 million for Cellero in fiscal year 2020, $134.6 million for Citoxlab in fiscal year 2019 and $264.9 million for MPI Research in fiscal year 2018. 41 We review definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when indication of potential impairment exists, such as a significant reduction in cash flows associated with the assets. Actual cash flows arising from a particular intangible asset could vary from projected cash flows which could imply different carrying values from those established at the dates of acquisition and which could result in impairment of such asset. No impairments were recognized during 2020, 2019 or 2018. We evaluate goodwill for impairment annually, during the fourth quarter, and when events occur or circumstances change that may reduce the fair value of the asset below its carrying amount. Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive activities, loss of key personnel and acts by governments and courts. Estimates of future cash flows require assumptions related to revenue and operating income growth, asset-related expenditures, working capital levels and other factors. Different assumptions from those made in our analysis could materially affect projected cash flows and our evaluation of goodwill for impairment. We perform the quantitative impairment test where we compare the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying values. If the carrying values of the net assets assigned to the reporting units exceed the fair values of the reporting units, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. In fiscal 2020 we adopted ASU 2017-04, “Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.” The standard simplifies the accounting for goodwill impairment by removing Step 2 of the quantitative goodwill impairment test, which previously required a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the amount of a goodwill impairment loss. In fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, we performed the quantitative goodwill impairment test for our reporting units. Fair value was determined by using a weighted combination of a market-based approach and an income approach, as this combination was deemed to be the most indicative of our fair value in an orderly transaction between market participants. Under the market-based approach, we utilized information about our company as well as publicly available industry information to determine earnings multiples and sales multiples that are used to value our reporting units. Under the income approach, we determined fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted by an estimated weighted-average cost of capital, which reflects the overall level of inherent risk of the reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Our 2020, 2019 and 2018 impairment tests indicated that goodwill was not impaired. Valuation and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets to be held and used, including property, plant, and equipment, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets or asset group may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important that could trigger an impairment review include, but are not limited to, the following: • significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results; • significant negative industry or economic trends; or • significant changes or developments in strategy or operations that negatively affect the utilization of our long-lived assets. Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset, net of any sublease income, if applicable, and its eventual disposition. In the event that such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the assets are written-down to their fair values. We measure any impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management to be commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. Significant judgments are required to estimate future cash flows, including the selection of appropriate discount rates and other assumptions. We may also estimate fair value based on market prices for similar assets, as appropriate. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for these assets. Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans Several of our U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. We recognize the funded status of our defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans as an asset or liability. This amount is defined as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. We measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of our fiscal year end. 42 The cost and obligations of these arrangements are calculated using many assumptions to estimate the benefits that the employee earns while working, the amount of which cannot be completely determined until the benefit payments cease. Major assumptions used in the accounting for these employee benefit plans include the expected return on plan assets, withdrawal and mortality rates, discount rate, and rate of increase in employee compensation levels. Assumptions are determined based on our data and appropriate market indicators, and are evaluated each year as of the plans’ measurement date. Should any of these assumptions change, they would have an effect on net periodic pension costs and the unfunded benefit obligation. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets reflects the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligations. In determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the relative weighting of plan assets, the historical performance of total plan assets and individual asset classes and economic and other indicators of future performance. The discount rate reflects the rate we would have to pay to purchase high-quality investments that would provide cash sufficient to settle our current pension obligations. A 25-basis point change in the discount rate changes the projected benefit obligation by approximately $17 million for all our plans. The rate of compensation increase reflects the expected annual salary increases for the plan participants based on historical experience and the current employee compensation strategy. The Charles River Laboratories, Inc. Pension Plan (U.S. Pension Plan) is a qualified, non-contributory defined benefit plan covering certain U.S. employees. The U.S. Pension Plan was amended in 2002 to exclude new participants and in 2008 the accrual of benefits was frozen. In January 2019, we commenced the process to terminate this plan and received regulatory approval in April 2020. In October 2020, we settled all remaining benefits directly with vested participants through either lump sum payouts or the purchase of a group annuity contract from a qualified insurance company to administer all future payments. Prior to the settlement, the U.S. Pension Plan was underfunded with a benefit obligation of approximately $94 million and plan assets of approximately $93 million. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, we made a contribution of approximately $1 million to fully fund this plan to cover the lump sum payments, purchase the group annuity contract, and settle remaining termination costs. Upon settlement of the pension liability, we recognized a non-cash settlement charge of approximately $10 million related to pension losses, reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss to other expense in the consolidated statement of income. Stock-Based Compensation We grant stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance share units (PSUs) to employees, and stock options, restricted stock, and RSUs to non-employee directors under stock-based compensation plans. We make certain assumptions in order to value and record expense associated with awards made under our stock-based compensation arrangements. Changes in these assumptions may lead to variability with respect to the timing and amount of expense we recognize in connection with share-based payments. Stock-based compensation is recognized as an expense in the consolidated statements of income based on the grant date fair value, adjusted for forfeitures when they occur, over the requisite service period. Determining the appropriate valuation model and related assumptions requires judgment. The fair value of stock options granted is calculated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and the fair value of PSUs is estimated using a lattice model with a Monte Carlo simulation, both of which require the use of subjective assumptions including volatility and expected term, among others. Determining the appropriate amount to expense based on the anticipated achievement of PSU’s performance targets requires judgment, including forecasting the achievement of future financial targets. The estimate of expense is revised periodically based on the probability of achieving the required performance targets. The cumulative impact of any changes to our estimates is reflected in the period of change. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 1, “Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 43 Results of Operations Fiscal Year 2020 Compared to Fiscal Year 2019 Revenue and Operating Income The following tables present consolidated revenue by type and by reportable segment: The following table presents operating income by reportable segment: The following presents and discusses our consolidated financial results by each of our reportable segments: RMS RMS revenue increased $34.0 million, or 6.3%, due primarily to the recent acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero, which contributed $43.0 million and $5.1 million, respectively; higher research model services revenue, specifically our GEMS and Insourcing Solutions businesses; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Partially offsetting these 44 increases were lower research model product revenue in North America and Europe due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. RMS operating income decreased $31.2 million, or 23.3%, compared to the corresponding period in 2019. RMS operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2020 was 18.0%, a decrease of 6.9% from 24.9% for the corresponding period in 2019. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased primarily due to the lower sales volume for research model products due to the COVID-19 pandemic as described above and due to an increase in amortization of intangible assets associated with the recent acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero. DSA DSA revenue increased $218.4 million, or 13.5%, due primarily to service revenue increases in both the Safety Assessment and Discovery Services businesses due to demand from biotechnology clients and increased pricing of services; the acquisition of Citoxlab, which contributed $60.2 million to service revenue growth; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Additionally, DSA revenue was not significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal year 2020. DSA operating income increased $67.0 million, or 25.9%, compared to the corresponding period in 2019. DSA operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2020 was 17.7%, an increase of 1.7% from 16.0% for the corresponding period in 2019. These increases were primarily attributable to the higher revenue described above, realizing the benefit from operating efficiency and cost control initiatives, and lower acquisition related costs and severance costs, primarily impacting selling, general and administrative costs. These increases were partially offset by increased costs in both cost of revenue and selling, general, and administrative expenses related to recent site closures, and higher amortization of intangible assets associated with our recent acquisitions. Manufacturing Manufacturing revenue increased $50.3 million, or 10.8%, due primarily to higher service revenue in the Biologics business due to our facility in Pennsylvania being fully operational in 2020 compared to 2019 where work continued to be transitioned from a legacy facility; higher demand for products in both our Microbial Solutions’ Endotoxin business and our Avian business; and the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; partially offset by lower product revenue in our Microbial Solutions’ Bioburden business, specifically due to the timing of a large stocking order from a strategic partner in 2019, which did not recur in 2020, and delays in instrument installations caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Overall, Manufacturing revenue was not significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during fiscal year 2020. Manufacturing operating income increased $36.1 million, or 24.8%, compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Manufacturing operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2020 was 35.2%, an increase of 3.9% from 31.3% 45 for the corresponding period in 2019. The increases were due primarily to higher revenue as well as improved production efficiencies, including the absence of duplicative Biologics facilities in 2020 compared to 2019, and the impact of operating efficiencies realized during fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019. Unallocated Corporate Unallocated corporate costs consist of selling, general and administrative expenses that are not directly related or allocated to the reportable segments. The decrease in unallocated corporate costs of $9.6 million, or 5.2%, compared to the corresponding period in 2019 is predominantly associated with decreased costs associated with the evaluation and integration of our recent acquisition activity, as we temporarily slowed our acquisition activity during fiscal year 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic . Costs as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2020 was 6.1%, a decrease of 1.0% from 7.1% for the corresponding period in 2019. Interest Income Interest income, which represents earnings on cash, cash equivalents, and time deposits was $0.8 million and $1.5 million for fiscal years 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease of $0.7 million was primarily due to lower interest rates on invested funds in 2020 as compared to 2019. Interest Expense In terest expense for fiscal year 2020 was $86.4 million, an increase of $25.5 million, or 42.0%, compared to $60.9 million for fiscal year 2019. The increase was due primarily to foreign currency losses recognized in connection with debt-related foreign exchange forward contracts in fiscal year 2020 compared to foreign currency gains recognized in fiscal year 2019. Other Income, Net O ther income, net, was $100.0 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $87.7 million, or 713.3%, compared to $12.3 million for fiscal year 2019. The increase was due to net gains on our venture capital and strategic equity investments of $100.9 million in fiscal year 2020 compared to $20.7 million in fiscal year 2019, resulting primarily from increases in fair value from our publicly-held investments, which included initial public offerings of certain portfolio companies; and foreign currency gains recognized in connection with a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. entity with a different functional currency in fiscal year 2020 as compared to foreign currency losses recognized in fiscal year 2019; partially offset by higher pension related costs recognized during fiscal year 2020, including a settlement loss of $10.3 million for the termination of the U.S. Pension Plan, as compared to fiscal year 2019. Income Taxes Income tax expense was $81.8 million for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $31.8 million, compared to $50.0 million for fiscal year 2019. Our effective tax rate was 18.3% for fiscal year 2020, compared to 16.5% for fiscal year 2019. The increase in our effective tax rate in the 2020 period compared to the 2019 period was primarily due to the recognition of $20.6 million of net operating loss deferred tax assets due to foreign finance structure changes in 2019, partially offset by state tax benefits from amended state tax returns and higher tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions in 2020 compared to the corresponding period in 2019. Fiscal Year 2019 Compared to Fiscal Year 2018 Revenue and Operating Income The following tables present consolidated revenue by type and by reportable segment: 46 The following table presents operating income by reportable segment: The following presents and discusses our consolidated results by each of our reportable segments: RMS RMS revenue increased $17.4 million, or 3.3%, due primarily to higher research model services revenue and higher research model product revenue in China. Research model services benefited from a large government contract in the IS business and strong client demand in the GEMS business resulting from increased research and development activity conducted across biotechnology and academic institutional clients. Partially offsetting these increases were the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and lower research model product revenue outside of China, particularly from large biopharmaceutical clients. RMS operating income decreased $2.6 million, or 1.9%, compared to the corresponding period in 2018. RMS operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2019 was 24.9%, a decrease of 1.4% from 26.3% for the corresponding period in 2018. Operating income and operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased primarily due to higher cost of revenue and selling, general, and administrative expenses to support the growth of the businesses, which included the following: a $2.2 million charge recorded within selling, general and administrative costs in fiscal year 2019 in connection with the modification of the option to purchase the remaining 8% equity interest in Vital River, increased investments in personnel (staffing levels and hourly wage increases), higher severance charges in connection with certain global restructuring initiatives, and facility expansions (primarily in China). In addition, operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased due to lower operating income margins on the aforementioned large government contract, and lower sales volume for research models outside of China. 47 DSA DSA revenue increased $302.1 million, or 22.9%, due primarily to the recent acquisitions of Citoxlab and MPI Research, which contributed $123.7 million and $73.0 million, respectively, to service revenue growth. Additionally, service revenue increased in both the Safety Assessment and Discovery Services businesses due to demand from biotechnology clients and increased pricing of services. These increases were partially offset by the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. DSA operating income increased $31.3 million, or 13.8%, compared to the corresponding period in 2018. DSA operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2019 was 16.0%, a decrease of 1.3% from 17.3% for the corresponding period in 2018. The increase to operating income was primarily attributable to contributions from our recent acquisitions of Citoxlab and MPI Research. This increase was partially offset by increased costs in both cost of revenue and selling, general, and administrative expenses to support the growth of the businesses, which included the following: increased investments in personnel (staffing levels and hourly wage increases); increased investments related to facility expansions; higher severance charges in connection with certain global restructuring initiatives, and higher amortization of intangible assets and acquisition and integration costs associated with our recent acquisitions. These increased costs collectively decreased operating income as a percentage of revenue in 2019 compared to 2018. Manufacturing Manufacturing revenue increased $35.6 million, or 8.3%, due primarily to higher demand for endotoxin products, bioburden products and services, and species identification services in the Microbial Solutions business and higher service revenue in the Biologics business; partially offset by the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Manufacturing operating income increased $9.2 million, or 6.8%, compared to the corresponding period in 2018. Manufacturing operating income as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2019 was 31.3%, a decrease of 0.4% from 31.7% for the corresponding period in 2018. The increase to operating income was due primarily to the increase in revenue. This increase was partially offset by increased costs in both cost of revenue and selling, general, and administrative expenses to support the growth of the businesses, which included the following: increased investments in process improvements to further enhance Microbial Solutions’ operating efficiency; increased investments in personnel (staffing levels and hourly wage increases), and increased investments related to facility expansions (primarily in Biologics), and certain site consolidation costs. These increased costs collectively decreased operating income as a percentage of revenue in 2019 compared to 2018. 48 Unallocated Corporate Unallocated corporate costs consist of selling, general and administrative expenses that are not directly related or allocated to the reportable segments. The increase in unallocated corporate costs of $18.1 million, or 10.8%, compared to the corresponding period in 2018 is related to an increase in compensation, benefits, and other employee-related expenses; costs associated with the evaluation and integration of our recent acquisition activity; and costs related to the remediation of the unauthorized access into our information systems. Costs as a percentage of revenue for fiscal year 2019 was 7.1%, a decrease of 0.4% from 7.5% for the corresponding period in 2018. Interest Income Interest income, which represents earnings on cash, cash equivalents, and time deposits was $1.5 million and $0.8 million for fiscal years 2019 and 2018, respectively. The increase of $0.7 million was primarily due to higher average cash balances in 2019 as compared to 2018. Interest Expense Interest expense for fiscal year 2019 was $60.9 million, a decrease of $2.9 million, or 4.5%, compared to $63.8 million for fiscal year 2018. The decrease was due primarily to a foreign currency gain recognized in connection with a debt-related foreign exchange forward contract and lower debt issuance costs incurred compared to the corresponding period in 2018; partially offset by higher interest expense from increased debt to fund our recent acquisitions. Other Income, Net Other income, net, was $12.3 million for fiscal year 2019, a decrease of $1.0 million, or 7.3%, compared to $13.3 million for fiscal year 2018. The decrease was due to higher foreign currency losses recognized in connection with a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. entity with a different functional currency compared to the corresponding period in 2018 and higher pension-related costs as compared to the corresponding period in 2018; partially offset by higher net gains on our venture capital investments and our life insurance policy investments compared to the corresponding period in 2018. Income Taxes Income tax expense was $50.0 million for fiscal year 2019, a decrease of $4.5 million, compared to $54.5 million for fiscal year 2018. Our effective tax rate was 16.5% for fiscal year 2019, compared to 19.3% for fiscal year 2018. The decrease in our effective tax rate in the 2019 period compared to the 2018 period was primarily due to recognizing a $20.6 million deferred tax asset in fiscal year 2019 for net operating losses expected to be utilized in the future due to changes in our international financing structure. 49 Liquidity and Capital Resources We currently require cash to fund our working capital needs, capital expansion, acquisitions, and to pay our debt, lease, venture capital investment, and pension obligations. Our principal sources of liquidity have been our cash flows from operations, supplemented by long-term borrowings. Based on our current business plan, we believe that our existing funds, when combined with cash generated from operations and our access to financing resources, are sufficient to fund our operations for the foreseeable future as previously discussed in our section on the COVID-19 pandemic impacts. The following table presents our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments: Borrowings On March 26, 2018, we amended and restated our $1.65 billion credit facility, which extended the maturity date and provided for a $750.0 million term loan and a $1.55 billion multi-currency revolving facility (Credit Facility). The term loan facility matures in 19 quarterly installments with the last installment due March 26, 2023. The revolving facility matures on March 26, 2023, and requires no scheduled payment before that date. On October 23, 2019, we prepaid $500.0 million of the term loan with proceeds from a $500.0 million unregistered private offering (see 2028 Senior Notes below). Additionally, on November 4, 2019, we further amended and restated the Credit Facility to increase the multi-currency revolving facility by $500.0 million, from $1.55 billion to $2.05 billion. Under specified circumstances, we have the ability to increase the term loan and/or revolving facility by up to $1.0 billion in the aggregate. On April 3, 2018, we entered into an indenture (Base Indenture) with MUFG Union Bank, N.A. to allow for senior notes offerings under supplemental indentures. Concurrently on April 3, 2018, we entered into our first supplemental indenture and raised $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.5% Senior Notes due in 2026 (2026 Senior Notes) in an unregistered offering. Under the terms of the first supplemental indenture, interest on the 2026 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on April 1 and October 1, beginning on October 1, 2018. On October 23, 2019, we entered into our second supplemental indenture and raised an additional $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.25% Senior Notes due in 2028 (2028 Senior Notes) in an unregistered offering. Under the terms of the second supplemental indenture, interest on the 2028 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on May 1 and November 1, beginning on May 1, 2020. Amounts outstanding under our credit facilities and both the 2026 Senior Notes and the 2028 Senior Notes were as follows: The interest rates applicable to the term loan and revolving facility under the Credit Facility are, at our option, equal to either the base rate (which is the higher of (1) the prime rate, (2) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, or (3) the one-month adjusted LIBOR rate plus 1.0%) or the adjusted LIBOR rate, plus an interest rate margin based upon our leverage ratio. We entered into foreign exchange forward contracts during fiscal years 2020 and 2019 to limit our foreign currency exposure related to a U.S. dollar denominated loan borrowed by a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity under the Credit Facility. 50 The acquisition of HemaCare on January 3, 2020 for $379.8 million in cash was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility under the multi-currency revolving facility. The acquisition of Distributed Bio on December 31, 2020 (fiscal year 2021) for approximately $83 million in cash was funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility under the multi-currency revolving facility. The intended acquisition of Cognate BioServices, Inc. along with the associated fees are expected to be funded through a combination of available cash and proceeds from our Credit Facility under the multi-currency revolving facility. Repurchases of Common Stock During fiscal year 2020, we did not repurchase any shares under our authorized $1.3 billion stock repurchase program. As of December 26, 2020, we had $129.1 million remaining on the authorized stock repurchase program. Our stock-based compensation plans permit the netting of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock, restricted stock units, and performance share units in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. During fiscal year 2020, we acquired 0.1 million shares for $24.0 million through such netting. Cash Flows The following table presents our net cash provided by operating activities: Net cash provided by cash flows from operating activities represents the cash receipts and disbursements related to all of our activities other than investing and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting our income from continuing operations for (1) non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, deferred income taxes, gains and/or losses on venture capital and strategic equity investments, a s well as (2) changes in operating assets and liabilities, which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash associat ed with transactions and when they are recognized in our results of operations. For fiscal year 2020, compared to fiscal year 2019, the increase in net cash provided by operating activities was driven by higher net income and certain favorable changes in working capital items, including favorable timing of certain government deferrals of payroll tax payments, and compensation related items; partially offset by the timing of vendor and supplier payments and collections of net contract balances from contracts with customers (collectively trade receivables, net; deferred revenue; and customer contract deposits); and certain pension related payments compared to the same period in 2019. For fiscal year 2019, compared to fiscal year 2018, the increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by an increase in income from continuing operations, net of income taxes and the favorable timing of vendor and supplier payments compared to the same period in 2018; partially offset by unfavorable changes in working capital items, specifically related to the timing of net contract balances from contracts with customers (collectively trade receivables, net; deferred revenue; and customer contract deposits), increases in inventory levels in response to customer demand, and higher compensation payments compared to the prior year period. 51 The following table presents our net cash used in investing activities: The primary use of cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2020 related to the acquisitions of HemaCare and Cellero, capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments. The primary use of cash in fiscal year 2019 related to the acquisition of Citoxlab, the acquisition of a supplier, capital expenditures to support the growth of the business, and investments in certain venture capital and strategic equity investments. The primary use of cash in fiscal year 2018 related to our acquisitions of MPI Research and KWS BioTest, and our capital expenditures to support the growth of the business; partially offset by proceeds from net investments, which primarily relate to short-term investments held by our U.K. operations. The following table presents our net cash provided b y financing ac tivities: For fiscal year 2020, net cash provided by financing activities reflected the net proceeds of $30.6 million on our long-term debt, revolving credit facility, and finance lease obligations. Included in the net proceeds are the following amounts: • Proceeds of approximately $415 million from our revolving Credit Facility to fund our recent acquisitions. Additionally, towards the end of the first fiscal quarter, we borrowed an additional $150 million from our revolving Credit Facility to secure available cash in response to uncertainties due to the COVID-19 pandemic; partially offset by, • Paymen ts of approximately $47 million on our term loan and net payments of $476 million to our revolving Credit Facility throughout fiscal year 2020, which included the repayment of the $150 million additional borrowings during the first fiscal quarter of 2020; • Additio nally, we had $1.6 billion of gross payments, partially offset by $1.6 billion of gross proceeds in connection with a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity repaying Euro loans and replacing the Euro loans with U.S. dollar denominated loans. A series of forward currency contracts were executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the U.S. dollar denominated loans. These proceeds and payments are presented as gross financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities also reflected proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $46.6 million, partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $24.0 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. Fo r fiscal year 2019, net cash provided by financing activities reflected the net proceeds of $233.9 million on our long-term debt, revolving credit facility, and finance lease obligations. Included in the net proceeds are the following amounts: 52 • Proceeds of $494 million received from the issuance of the 2028 Senior Notes on October 23, 2019, proceeds of approximately $581 million from our revolving credit facility to fund our recent acquisitions; and $98 million of proceeds from our revolving credit facility to fund activities in the normal course of business; partially offset by, • Payments of $537.5 million on our term loan, which included the $500.0 million prepayment on November 4, 2019, and approximately $151 million of repayments to our revolving credit facility in the normal course of business; • Additionally, we had $2.4 billion of gross payments, partially offset by $2.2 billion of gross proceeds in connection with a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity repaying Euro loans and replacing the Euro loans with U.S. dollar denominated loans. A series of forward currency contracts were executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the U.S. dollar denominated loans. These proceeds and payments are presented as gross financing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities also reflected proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $34.5 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by treasury stock purchases of $18.1 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements and the purchase of an additional 5% equity interest in Vital River for $7.9 million which is included in Other, net. For fiscal year 2018, net cash provided by financing activities reflected the incremental proceeds from the refinancing of our previous $1.65 Billion Credit Facility to the $2.3 Billion Credit Facility and the proceeds from our $500.0 million 2026 Senior Notes. Subsequent to refinancing our $2.3 Billion Credit Facility, we repaid €300 million of our revolving facility borrowed by a non-U.S. Euro functional currency entity and replaced the borrowing with a $343 million U.S. dollar denominated loan. A forward currency contract was then executed to mitigate any foreign currency gains or losses on the $343 million U.S. dollar denominated loan. Additionally, proceeds from exercises of employee stock options of $37.7 million; partially offset by payments on debt financing costs of $18.3 million, and treasury stock purchases of $13.8 million made due to the netting of common stock upon vesting of stock-based awards in order to satisfy individual statutory tax withholding requirements. Contractual Commitments and Obligations Minimum future payments of our contractual obligations as of December 26, 2020 are as follows: (1) Notes payable includes the principal payments on our debt, which include our $2.3B Credit Facility, our Senior Notes and Other debt. (2) We lease properties and equipment for use in our operations. In addition to rent, the leases may require us to pay additional amounts for taxes, insurance, maintenance, and other operating expenses. Amounts reflected within the table detail future minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases, net of income from subleases, for each of the periods presented. Approximately $130 million of contractually committed lease payments are reflected in the table for which leases have not yet commenced, as we do not yet control the underlying assets. (3) The estimated cash obligation for redeemable noncontrolling interests are based on the amount that would be paid if settlement occurred as of the balance sheet date based on the contractually defined redemption value as of December 26, 2020. (4) The timing of the remaining capital commitment payments to venture capital funds is subject to the procedures of the limited liability partnerships and limited liability companies; the above table reflects the earliest possible date the payment can be required under the relevant agreements. (5) In connection with certain business and asset acquisitions, we agreed to make additional payments aggregating to $2.3 million based upon the achievement of certain financial targets in connection with the respective acquisition. The contingent payment obligations included in the table above have not been probability adjusted or discounted. 53 (6) Unconditional purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable at any time without penalty. The above table excludes obligations related to our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. Refer to Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more details. Tax Related Obligations We excluded liabilities pertaining to uncertain tax positions from our summary of contractual obligations presented above, as we cannot make a reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. As of December 26, 2020, we had $25.0 million of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions. Additionally, we excluded federal and state income tax liabilities of $48.8 million from our summary of contractual obligations presented above, relating to the one-time Transition Tax on unrepatriated earnings under U.S. Tax Reform. The Transition Tax will be paid, interest free, over an eight-year period through 2026. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 26, 2020, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K promulgated under the Exchange Act, except as disclosed below. Venture Capital Investments We invest in several venture capital funds that invest in start-up companies, primarily in the life sciences industry. Our total commitment to the funds as of December 26, 2020 was $139.9 million, of which we funded $95.3 million through December 26, 2020. Refer to Note 6, “Venture Capital and Strategic Equity Investments,” to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. Letters of Credit Our off-balance sheet commitments related to our outstanding letters of credit as of December 26, 2020 were $16.0 million.