********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks related to our business Our revenues and financial position will be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain clients . Our success and revenues depend on attracting and retaining subscribers to our information, analytics and online marketplace services. Our subscription-based services generate the largest portion of our revenues. Our revenue may not grow, or could decrease, if we cannot attract new customers, continue to keep our cancellation rate low and continue to sell new services to our existing customers. We may not be able to continue to grow our customer base, keep the cancellation rate low or sell new services to existing customers as a result of several factors, including, without limitation: economic pressures; the business failure of current clients; customer decisions that they do not need our services or to use alternative services; customers’ and potential customers’ budgetary constraints; consolidation in the real estate and/or financial services industries; data quality; technical problems; competitive pressures; or devaluation of the local currencies of international customers relative to the U.S. dollar which impairs the purchasing power of such customers. We compete against many other real estate information, analytics and marketing service providers for business. If clients cancel services or decide not to renew their subscription agreements and we do not sell new services to our existing clients or attract new clients, then our renewal rate, net new sales and revenues may decline or fail to meet expectations. We may not be able to successfully develop and introduce new or upgraded information, analytics and online marketplace services that are attractive to our users and advertisers or successfully combine or shift focus from current services with less demand, which could decrease our revenues and our profitability . Our future business and financial success will depend on our ability to continue to anticipate the needs of customers and potential customers and to successfully introduce new and upgraded services, including services that make our marketplaces useful for users and attractive to advertisers. To be successful, we must be able to quickly adapt to changes in the industry, as well as rapid technological changes by continually enhancing our information, analytics and online marketplace services. As a result, we must continually invest resources in research and development to improve the appeal and comprehensiveness of our services and effectively incorporate new technologies. Developing new services and upgrades to services, as well as integrating and coordinating current services, imposes heavy burdens on our systems department, product development team, management and researchers. The processes are costly and our efforts to develop, integrate and enhance our services may not be successful. In addition, launching and selling a new or upgraded service puts additional strain on our sales and marketing resources. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining greater market share or in obtaining widespread adoption of new or upgraded services, we may not be able to offset the expenses associated with the development, launch and marketing of the new or upgraded service, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. For example, to generate brand awareness and site traffic for our marketplaces, we have and will continue to invest significant resources in multi-channel marketing campaigns. If these marketing campaigns do not increase brand awareness, site traffic and/or revenues, the cost of these campaigns could have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, as we integrate acquired businesses, we continue to assess which services we believe will best meet the needs of our customers. If we eliminate or phase out a service and are not able to offer and successfully market and sell an alternative service, our revenue may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors in attracting advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors in attracting advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete to attract advertisers. Our competitors may have greater brand recognition or more  direct sales personnel than we have and may generate more web traffic than we do, which may provide them with competitive advantages. To compete successfully for advertisers, we must continue to invest resources in developing our advertising platform and proving the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising services. Pressure from competitors seeking to acquire a greater share of our advertisers’ overall marketing budget could adversely affect our pricing and margins, lower our revenue and increase our research and development and marketing expenses. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. A downturn or consolidation in the real estate industry may decrease customer demand for our services . The real estate market may be adversely impacted by many different factors, including lower than expected job growth or job losses resulting in reduced real estate demand; reduced real estate demand due to increased remote work policies; rising interest rates and slowing transaction volumes due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise that negatively impact investment returns; excessive speculative new construction in localized markets resulting in increased vacancy rates and diminished rent growth; and unanticipated disasters and other adverse events such as slowing of the growth in the working age population resulting in reduced demand for all types of real estate. A downturn in the real estate market, including as a result of a decline in leasing activity and absorption rates may affect our ability to generate revenues and may lead to more cancellations by our 18 current or future customers, either of which could cause our revenues or our revenue growth rate to decline and reduce our profitability. A depressed real estate market has a negative impact on our core customer base, which could decrease demand for our information, analytics and online marketplaces. Also, companies in this industry may consolidate, often in order to reduce expenses. Consolidation, or other cost-cutting measures by our customers, may lead to cancellations of our information, analytics and online marketplace services by our customers, reduce the number of our existing clients, reduce the size of our target market or increase our clients’ bargaining power, all of which could cause our revenues to decline and reduce our profitability. If cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenues by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at lower rates. If we are unable to hire qualified persons for, or retain and continue to develop, our sales force, or if our sales force is unproductive, our revenues could be adversely affected. In order to support revenues and revenue growth, we need to continue to develop, train and retain our sales force. Our ability to build and develop a strong sales force may be affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to attract, integrate and motivate sales personnel; our ability to effectively train our sales force; the ability of our sales force to sell an increased number and different types of services; our ability to manage effectively an outbound telesales group; the length of time it takes new sales personnel to become productive; the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel; our ability to effectively structure our sales force; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location sales organization, including field sales personnel. If we are unable to hire qualified sales personnel and develop and retain our sales force, including sales force management, or if our sales force is unproductive, our revenues or growth rate could decline and our expenses could increase. We may face additional challenges in hiring employees in an increasingly competitive job market. Our internal and external investments may place downward pressure on our operating margins. To increase our revenue growth, we continue to invest in our business, including internal investments in product and content development to expand the breadth and depth of services we provide to our customers and external investments in sales and marketing to generate brand awareness. Our operating margins may experience downward pressure in the short term as a result of these investments. Furthermore, our investments may not produce the expected results. If we are unable to successfully execute our investment strategy, we may experience decreases in our revenues and operating margins. We may be unable to increase awareness of our brands, including CoStar, LoopNet, Apartments.com, BizBuySell, LandsofAmerica, STR, Ten-X, Homes.com and Homesnap, which could adversely affect our business. We rely heavily on our brands, which we believe are key assets of our company. Awareness and differentiation of our brands are important for attracting and expanding the number of users of, and subscribers to, our online marketplaces, such as LoopNet, the Apartments.com network of rental websites, our Homes.com and Homesnap residential marketplaces, CoStar Showcase and the Land.com network of rural lands for-sale. We expect to continue to invest significantly in sales and marketing in 2022 as we seek to grow the numbers of users of, subscribers to and advertisers on, our marketplaces. Our methods of advertising may not be successful in increasing brand awareness or, ultimately, be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance user and advertiser awareness of our brands, or if we are unable to recover our marketing and advertising costs through increased usage of our services and increased advertising on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If internet search engines do not prominently feature our websites on the search engine results page, traffic to our websites would decrease and, if we are unable to maintain or increase traffic to our marketplaces, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to generate revenues from our marketplace business depends, in part, on our ability to attract users to our websites. Google, Bing, DuckDuckGo and other internet search engines drive traffic to our websites, including CoStar.com, the Apartments.com network of rental websites, the LoopNet.com network of commercial real estate websites, Ten-X.com, our Homes.com and Homesnap residential marketplaces, the BizBuySell.com network of business for-sale websites and the Land.com network of land for-sale websites. For example, when a user enters in a search query for an apartment building name or address into an internet search engine, the internet search engine’s ranking of our Apartments.com webpages will determine how prominently such webpages are displayed on the search engine results page. Our ability to maintain prominent search result rankings and positioning is not entirely within our control. Our competitors’ Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Search Engine Marketing (SEM) efforts may result in webpages from their websites receiving higher rankings than the webpages from our websites. Internet search engines could revise their algorithms and methodologies in ways that would adversely affect our search result rankings. Internet search engine providers could form partnerships or enter into other business relationships with our competitors resulting in competitors’ sites receiving higher search result rankings. Internet search engines are increasingly placing alternative search features (such as featured snippets, local map results and other immersive experiences) on the search engine results page above or more prominently than search engine results. If our search result rankings are not prominently displayed, traffic to our websites may decline which could slow the growth of our user base. Our websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past and we anticipate similar fluctuations will occur in the future. If we experience a material reduction in the number of users directed to our websites through internet search engines or otherwise fail to maintain or increase traffic to our marketplaces, our ability to acquire additional subscribers or 19 advertisers and deliver leads to and retain existing subscribers and advertisers could be adversely affected. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our marketing expenses may increase in connection with our efforts to maintain or increase traffic to our websites. Increases in our operating expenses could negatively impact our operating results if we are unable to generate more revenues through increased sales of subscriptions to our marketplace products. Competition could render our services uncompetitive and reduce our profitability . The markets for information systems and services and for online marketplaces in general are highly competitive and rapidly changing. Competition in these markets may increase further if economic conditions or other circumstances cause customer bases and customer spending to decrease and service providers to compete for fewer customer resources. Our existing or future competitors, may have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, better technology or data, lower prices, easier access to data, greater user traffic or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we have to provide services that users might view as superior to our offerings. Competitors may introduce different solutions that attract users away from our services or provide solutions similar to ours that have the advantage of better branding or marketing resources. Our competitors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns, obtain more data, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, make more attractive offers to potential employees, subscribers, advertisers, distribution partners and content providers or may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in user requirements. Increased competition could result in lower revenues and higher expenses, which would reduce our profitability. If real estate professionals or other advertisers reduce or cancel their advertising spending with us and we are unable to attract new advertisers, our operating results would be harmed. Our marketplace businesses, including LoopNet, the Apartments.com network of rental websites, our residential brands including Homes.com and Homesnap and the Land.com network of rural lands for-sale, depend on advertising revenues generated primarily through sales to persons in the real estate industry, including property managers and owners and other advertisers. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately to generate advertising revenue, depends on a number of factors, including: • Increasing the number of unique visitors to, and users of, our websites and mobile applications; • The quantity and quality of the leads that we provide to our advertisers; • The success of any marketing and product development efforts directed at attracting additional users and advertisers to our marketplaces; • Keeping pace with changes in technology and with our competitors; and • Offering an attractive return on investment to our advertisers for their advertising dollars spent with us. Further, with respect to the Apartments.com network of rental websites, our ability to attract and retain advertisers also depends on the current apartment rental market and apartment vacancy rates. If vacancy rates are too high or too low, advertisers may not need to utilize our marketplace services. Many of the advertisers who advertise on our marketplaces do not have long-term contracts. These advertisers could choose to modify or discontinue their relationships with us with little or no advance notice. As existing subscriptions for advertising expire, we may not be successful in renewing these subscriptions or securing new subscriptions. We may not succeed in retaining existing advertisers’ spending or capturing a greater share of such spending if we are unable to convince advertisers of the effectiveness of our services as compared to alternatives. In addition, future changes to our pricing methodology for advertising services may cause advertisers to reduce or discontinue their advertising with us. If current advertisers reduce or end their advertising spending with us and we are unable to attract new advertisers, our advertising revenues and business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 20 If we are not able to successfully identify, finance, integrate and/or manage costs related to acquisitions, our business operations and financial position could be adversely affected . We have expanded our markets and services in part through acquisitions of complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Our acquisition strategy depends on our ability to identify, and the availability of, suitable acquisition candidates. We are likely to incur costs in connection with proposed acquisitions, but may ultimately be unable or unwilling to consummate any particular proposed transaction for various reasons. For example, in 2021, the FTC withheld approval for our proposed acquisition of RentPath, the purchase agreement was subsequently terminated and we incurred a termination fee of $52 million. We are also likely to incur severance costs and other integration costs post-acquisition. Costs in connection with acquisitions and integrations may be higher than expected and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation or prospects of the combined business. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks that we will not be able to realize or capitalize on synergies created through combinations; manage the integration of personnel and products or services; manage the integration of acquired infrastructure and controls; control potential increases in operating costs; manage geographically remote operations; maintain management’s attention on other business concerns and avoid potential disruptions in ongoing operations during an acquisition process or integration efforts; successfully enter markets and sectors in which we have either limited or no direct experience, including foreign markets whose practices, regulations or laws may pose increased risk; and retain key employees, clients or vendors and other business partners of the acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate acquired businesses or assets and may not achieve anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including expected synergies.  For example, we may be unable to fully integrate Homesnap, Homes.com and BureauxLocaux with CoStar when and as expected. We are subject to an FTC consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at http://www.ftc.gov/, that, among other things, requires us to give the FTC advance notice of certain acquisitions. Compliance with this order could prevent us from closing certain acquisitions or add significant time and cost to such acquisitions, ultimately making an acquisition prohibitive or preventing us from realizing its anticipated benefits. External factors, such as compliance with laws and regulations and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful integration of an acquired business. An acquired business could strain our system of internal controls and diminish its effectiveness. Acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and substantial amortization expenses of other intangible assets. We may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, if necessary to finance future acquisitions, making it impossible or more costly to complete future acquisitions. If we are able to obtain financing, the terms may be onerous and restrict our operations. Further, certain acquisitions may be subject to regulatory approval, which can be time consuming and costly to obtain or may be denied, as in the case of RentPath. If regulatory approval is obtained, the terms of any such approval may impose limitations on our ongoing operations or require us to divest assets or lines of business. If regulatory approval is denied, we may incur significant, additional costs payable to an acquisition target as a result of failure to close the transaction. For example, we incurred a termination fee of $52 million in connection with termination of the RentPath purchase agreement. Significant break-up fees incurred in the future may adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. As a result of our acquisitions, we had approximately $2.8 billion of goodwill and intangibles as of December 31, 2021. Future acquisitions may increase this amount. If we are required to recognize goodwill and intangibles impairment charges in the future, this would negatively affect our financial results in the periods of such charges, which may reduce our profitability. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with privacy laws and standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . We depend on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients and vendors. We collect, use and disclose personally identifiable information, such as names, addresses, phone numbers and email addresses. We collect, store and use biometric data and sensitive or confidential transaction and account information. We also collect personal information from tenants and landlords, including social security numbers, birthdates and financial information to facilitate the apartment rental application and payment process between a renter and property manager. As a result, we are subject to a variety of state, national and international laws and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") and California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA"). These laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. For example, the GDPR introduced new data protection requirements in the EU and imposes substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The GDPR increased our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process. The CCPA expands the rights of California residents to access and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA also provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation. Other states have adopted, or are considering enacting, similar laws. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with privacy or data protection laws could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and 21 could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Compliance with any of the foregoing laws and regulations can be costly, can delay or impede the development of new products, and may require us to change the way we operate. The interpretation and application of many privacy and data protection laws are uncertain. These laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our products. If so, in addition to the possibility of negative publicity, fines, lawsuits and other claims and penalties, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products, which could harm our business. Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business and financial condition. As stated above, our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of customers’ personal data. We also collect, store and process employee personal data. An increasing number of organizations, including large merchants, businesses, technology companies and financial institutions, as well as government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on their websites, mobile applications and infrastructure. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to a target's systems, data or customers' data, disable or degrade services, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and have become increasingly complex and sophisticated, may be difficult to detect quickly and often are not recognized or detected until after they have been launched against a target. We expect that unauthorized parties will continue to attempt to gain access to or disrupt our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities or those of our customers or vendors, or attempting to fraudulently induce (for example, through spear phishing attacks or social engineering) our employees, customers, vendors or other users of our systems into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persisting cyberattacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, could compromise the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data in our systems. Our  efforts to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, may not be effective. Further, the security measures and procedures our customers, vendors and other users of our systems have in place to protect sensitive consumer data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data breaches, cyberattacks or system failures. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers’ or employees’ personal or proprietary information that is stored on or accessible through those systems. We have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, breaches of our security measures due to human error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities or other irregularities. Actual or perceived breaches of our security could result in any of the following, among other things, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations: • Interrupt our operations; • Result in our systems or services being unavailable; • Result in improper disclosures of data; • Result in improper payments; • Materially harm our reputation and brands; • Result in significant regulatory scrutiny and legal and financial exposure; • Cause us to incur significant remediation costs; • Lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services; • Divert the attention of management from the operation of our business; and • Result in significant contractual penalties or other payments as a result of third-party losses or claims. In addition, any cyberattacks or data security breaches affecting companies that we acquire or our customers or vendors (including data center and cloud computing providers) could have similar negative effects on our business. For example, in December 2020, we became aware that one of our vendors providing IT infrastructure management software, SolarWinds Corporation, had been compromised by cyberattacks. As of December 22, 2020, we had implemented the fully patched versions of the SolarWinds software and we took additional measures to block internet connectivity to and from all SolarWinds' Orion servers. Although we have not identified any compromise of our IT systems due to the use of SolarWinds software to date, we continue to monitor our network for any potential impact related to the SolarWinds cyberattack. Similarly, we are regularly exposed to vulnerabilities in widely deployed third-party software that we use in the ordinary course of business, such as the recently identified Log4J vulnerability. While this vulnerability did not have a material adverse effect on our operations, it and similar incidents require us to devote time and resources to remediation on a regular basis. Notwithstanding our efforts, there can be no assurance that vulnerabilities in widely deployed software will not materially harm our business. Any breach of our security measures or the loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of 22 the SolarWinds cyberattack, could result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. The coverage under our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Technical problems or disruptions that affect either our customers’ ability to access our services, or the software, internal applications, database and network systems underlying our services, could damage our reputation and lead to reduced demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services, lower revenues and increased costs . Our business, brands and reputation depend upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, the internet and our service providers. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, software errors, physical or electronic break-ins, or malicious hacks or attacks on our systems (such as denial of service attacks or use of malware), could affect the security and availability of our services on our mobile applications and our websites and prevent or inhibit users' access to our services. Our operations also depend on our ability to protect our databases, computers and software, telecommunications equipment and facilities against damage from potential dangers such as fire, flood, power loss, security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. In addition, the software, internal applications and systems underlying our services are complex and may not be error-free. We may encounter technical problems when we attempt to enhance our software, internal applications and systems. Our users rely on our services for the conduct of their own businesses. Disruptions in, technical problems with, or reductions in ability to access, our services for any reason could damage our users’ businesses, harm our reputation, result in additional costs or reduce demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The majority of the communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our mobile applications and websites are located at facilities in Virginia and California. We do not own or control the operation of certain of these facilities. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. These risks may be increased with respect to operations housed at facilities we do not own or control. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. A failure of our systems at any site could result in reduced functionality for our users, and a total failure of our systems could cause our mobile applications or websites to be inaccessible. Problems faced or caused by our information technology service providers, including content distribution service providers, private network providers, internet providers and third-party web-hosting providers, or with the systems by which they allocate capacity among their customers (as applicable), could adversely affect the experience of our users. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by these third-party service providers or any of the service providers with whom they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. If our third-party service providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, our business could be harmed. In addition, if distribution channels for our mobile applications experience disruptions, such disruptions could adversely affect the ability of users and potential users to access or update our mobile applications, which could harm our business. Our business interruption insurance may not cover certain events or may be insufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business, which may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures or malicious attacks. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. We are planning to undertake a large infrastructure project to build out our campus in Richmond, Virginia, the costs of which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. In December 2021, we announced our plans to expand our research and technology center in Richmond, Virginia. These plans will require significant capital expenditures over the next several years and our business plans may change. Future changes in growth or fluctuations in cash flow may also negatively impact our ability to finance this project. Additionally, actual capital expenditures could vary materially from our projected capital expenditures, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are provided with any grants, tax credits, abatements or other incentives related to this expansion effort and do not meet requirements associated with those incentives, we may not be able to benefit from those incentives, which could cause the cost of the project to be significantly more than anticipated or significantly increase our taxes above what we currently expect. We are currently considering financing options and may finance construction with cash on hand. Use of cash on hand to finance construction would reduce the amount of cash available for other corporate uses and could also reduce our ability to meet our 23 scheduled debt service obligations or to meet the covenants required to borrow additional funds under our 2020 Credit Agreement. Any of the foregoing may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Our current or future geographic expansion plans may not result in increased revenues, which may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position . Expanding into new markets and increasing the depth of our coverage in existing markets imposes additional burdens on our research, systems development, sales, marketing and general managerial resources. If we are unable to manage our expansion efforts effectively, if our expansion efforts take longer or are more expensive than planned or we are not successful in marketing and selling our services in existing or new markets, our expansion may have a material adverse effect on our financial position by increasing our expenses without increasing our revenues. Our operating results and revenues are subject to fluctuations and our quarterly financial results may be subject to market cyclicality, each of which could negatively affect our stock price. The real estate market may be influenced by general economic conditions, economic cycles, seasonality and many other factors, which in turn may impact our financial results. The different sectors of the large and fragmented industry, such as office, industrial, retail, multifamily, single family and others, are influenced differently by different factors, and have historically moved through economic cycles with different timing. As such, it is difficult to estimate the potential impact of economic cycles and conditions or seasonality from year-to-year on our overall operating results. We generally see higher sales of Apartments.com listing services during the peak summer rental season and higher CoStar sales towards the end of the year, however sales fluctuate from year-to-year and may fluctuate more widely when there are changes in general economic conditions or the industry, such as changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, we generally incur greater marketing expenses during the second quarter, which coincides with the peak season for apartment rentals. The timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, particularly slowdowns during the end-of-year holiday period, and availability of real estate agents and related service providers during these periods, could significantly affect our quarterly operating results during that period. If we are unable to adequately respond to economic, seasonal or cyclical conditions, our revenues, expenses and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate for many reasons, including those described in this paragraph and below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: • Rates of subscriber adoption and retention; • Timing of our sales conference or significant marketing events; • Changes in our pricing strategy and timing of changes; • The timing and success of new service introductions and enhancements; • The shift of focus from, or phase out of services that overlap or are redundant with other services we offer; • The amount and timing of our  expenses and capital expenditures; • The amount and timing of non-cash stock-based charges; • Acquisition-related costs or impairment charges associated with such investments and acquisitions; • Competition; • Changes or consolidation in the real estate industry; • Interest rate fluctuations; • Execution of our expansion and integration plans; • The development of our sales force; • Foreign currency and exchange rate fluctuations; • Inflation; and • Changes in client budgets. These fluctuations could negatively affect our results of operations during the period in question and/or future periods or cause our stock price to decline. In addition, changes in accounting policies or practices may affect our level of net income. Fluctuations in our financial results, revenues and expenses may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our business depends on retaining and attracting highly capable management and operating personnel . Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract management and operating personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Florance, and our other officers and key employees. Our business requires highly skilled technical, sales, management, web product and development, marketing and research personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including employment agreements, awards under a stock incentive plan and incentive bonuses for key employees. These measures may not be enough to retain and attract the personnel we need or to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of Mr. Florance or other key officers or employees. We experienced an increase in turnover as we returned nearly all our workforce to the office. We may face additional challenges in retaining  employees in an increasingly competitive job market. 24 Changes in tax laws, regulations or fiscal and tax policies or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business. In addition, from time to time, U.S. and foreign tax authorities, including state and local governments consider legislation that could increase our effective tax rate. For example, the U.S. Congress has advanced a variety of tax legislation proposals, and while the final form of any legislation is uncertain, the current proposals, if enacted, could have a material effect on our effective tax rate. Our business and results of operations have been and may be, and our financial condition may be, impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and such impact could be materially adverse and continue for an unknown period of time. The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant economic volatility, uncertainty and disruption around the world. The extent to which COVID-19 will further impact our business, operations and financial results, including the duration and magnitude of such impact, is uncertain and will depend on numerous rapidly evolving factors that we cannot accurately predict including, among others: • The length and severity of the pandemic, including new variants; • The negative impact on global and regional economies, credit markets and economic activity; • Governmental, business and individual actions taken in response to the pandemic and the impact of those actions on global economic activity; • The impact of business disruptions and reductions in employment levels and the level of consumer confidence in the economy on our clients and the resulting impact on their demand for our services and solutions; • Business consolidations or failures among businesses that we serve; • Our clients’ ability to pay for our services and solutions and our ability to collect payment for services provided; and • The pace and extent of economic recovery following the COVID-19 pandemic, including recovery in the real estate industry in particular. The demand for office space could decrease significantly as businesses implement hybrid or all work from home arrangements in response to employee desire for more flexibility, which may lead to a downturn in the commercial real estate market. A depressed commercial real estate market would have a negative impact on our core customer base, which could impact our customers’ ability to subscribe and pay for our services and reduce demand for our services. Reduced demand and increased cancellations could cause our revenues or our revenue growth rates to decline and reduce our profitability. As a result of COVID-19 and its impact on global economic conditions, including the real estate industry, towards the end of the first quarter and in the first two months of the second quarter of 2020, we saw an increase in customer requests for cancellations or suspensions, a reduction in new customer sales, failures to pay and delays in payments of amounts owed to us. We may see additional requests as current economic conditions cause customers to reduce expenses and prolong the decision-making time before purchasing third party services, which may lead to fewer of our services being purchased or service cancellations. The extent and duration of any future continued weakening of the economy is unknown, and there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to strengthen the economy will be successful or available to us and our customers and, if successful, when the benefits will be seen. COVID-19, and the disruption in global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, could also precipitate or aggravate the other risk factors discussed in this Report, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks. For additional discussion of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could be materially adverse to our operations and financial results, please see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic" in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are subject to a number of risks related to acceptance of credit cards and debit cards and facilitation of other customer payments . We depend on processing vendors to complete credit and debit card transactions. If we or our processing vendors fail to maintain adequate systems to authorize and process credit card transactions, one or more of the major credit card companies could disallow our continued use of their payment products. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, our processing vendors may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. We could lose customers if we are not able to continue to use payment products of the major credit card companies. In addition, if the systems to authorize and process credit card transactions fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not charge our customers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We depend on processing vendors to complete credit and debit card transactions and Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments, both for payments made to us directly for our services and for payments made by renters to landlords using our online leasing services. If we or any one or more of these service providers fail to maintain adequate systems for authorization 25 and processing credit card payments, it could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. Further, if we or any one or more of these service providers fail to maintain adequate systems for authorization and processing of credit, debit, ACH or similar payments or if any such service provider were to terminate or modify its relationship with us unexpectedly, our ability to process those customer transactions would be adversely affected, which could decrease sales, discourage customers away from our marketplace services, result in potential legal liability, and harm our business and reputation. In addition, if the systems for the authorization and processing of credit card transactions fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not charge our customers’ credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted in ways that make it more difficult for us to comply. We are required to comply with payment card industry security standards. Failing to comply with those standards may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations and the terms of our contracts with payment processors. Any failure to comply also may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments. Further, there is no guarantee that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss, or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, cardholders and transactions. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data are compromised due to a breach of data, we may be liable for significant costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent payment transactions, we may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures and higher costs, each of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, our processing vendors may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in our credit and debit card fees could harm our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our rates for our services to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Risks related to our data, intellectual property and listings If we are not able to obtain and maintain accurate, comprehensive or reliable data, we could experience reduced demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services . Our success depends on our clients’ confidence in the comprehensiveness, accuracy and reliability of the data and analysis we provide. Establishing and maintaining accurate and reliable data and analysis is challenging. If our data, including the data we obtain from third parties or directly from brokers through the Marketing Center feature on CoStar and LoopNet, or analysis is not current, accurate, comprehensive or reliable, we could experience reduced demand for our services or be subject to legal claims by our customers, either of which could result in lower revenues and higher expenses. If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property, our business, brands, competitive position and operating results could be harmed . The success of our business depends in large part on our intellectual property, including intellectual property involved in our methodologies, databases, services and software. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent, copyright and other laws, nondisclosure and noncompetition provisions, license agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. However, current law may not provide for adequate protection of our databases and the actual data. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and changes in these standards may adversely impact the viability or value of our proprietary rights. We find our proprietary content on competitors' sites. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, including our content, our brands and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The same would be true if a court found that our services infringe other persons’ intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which we are involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, have cost us and could continue to cost us a significant amount of time and money and distract management’s attention from operating our business. In addition, if we do not prevail on an intellectual property claim, this could result in a change to our methodology or information, analytics and online marketplace services and could reduce our profitability. Effective trademark, trade secret, patent and copyright protection may not be available in every country in which we provide our services. The laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U. S. and, 26 therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could harm our competitive position. This risk will increase as we continue to expand our business into new international jurisdictions. We may not be able to successfully halt the operation of websites that aggregate our data, as well as data from other companies, or copycat websites that may misappropriate our data. Third parties may misappropriate our data through website scraping, robots or other means and aggregate and display this data on their websites. In addition, “copycat” websites may misappropriate data on our website and attempt to imitate our brands or the functionality of our website. We may not be able to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures available to us may be insufficient to stop their operations and the misappropriation of our data. Any measures that we may take to enforce our rights could require us to expend significant financial or other resources. We may be subject to legal liability for collecting, displaying or distributing information . Because the content in our database is collected from various sources and distributed to others, we may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, negligence, unfair competition or copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories, such as breach of laws related to privacy and data protection. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites or information on our website supplied by third parties. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against any claims and we could be subject to public notice requirements that may affect our reputation. Our potential liability for information distributed by us to others could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our information, analytics and online marketplaces to users. If we are unable to obtain or retain listings from real estate brokers, agents, property owners and apartment property managers, our marketplace services, could be less attractive to current or potential customers, which could reduce our revenues. The value of our real estate marketplace services to our customers depends on our ability to increase the number of property listings provided and searches conducted. As the number of listings increases, so does the utility of a marketplace's search, listing and marketing services. We depend substantially on brokers, agents, property owners and, in the case of apartment rentals, property managers to submit listings to our marketplaces. If these parties choose not to continue their listings with us, or choose to list them with a competitor, our marketplace services could be less attractive to other real estate industry transaction participants, resulting in reduced revenue. Risks related to our international operations International operations expose us to additional business risks, which may reduce our profitability . Our international operations and expansion subject us to additional business risks, including: currency exchange rate fluctuations; adapting to the differing business practices and laws in foreign countries; including differing laws regarding privacy and data protection; difficulties in managing foreign operations; limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; costs of enforcing contractual obligations; impact of recessions in economies outside the U.S.; and potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, international expansion imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, systems development, research and sales departments and general managerial resources. If we are not able to manage our international operations successfully, we may incur higher expenses and our profitability may be reduced. Finally, the investment required for additional international expansion sometimes exceeds the profit generated from such expansion, which reduces our profitability and may adversely affect our financial position. Fluctuating foreign currencies may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position. A portion of our business is denominated in foreign currencies. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. During periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Foreign currency exchange rates have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. Significant foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively impact our international revenue, which in turn affects our consolidated revenue. Currently, we are not party to any hedging transactions intended to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We may seek to enter into hedging transactions in the future, but we may be unable to enter into these transactions successfully, on acceptable terms or at all. We cannot predict whether we will incur foreign exchange losses in the future. Further, significant foreign exchange fluctuations resulting in a decline in the respective local currency may decrease the value of our foreign assets, as well as decrease our revenues and earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. 27 The economic effects of “Brexit” may affect relationships with existing and future customers and could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which British citizens approved an exit from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly referred to as “Brexit.” On January 31, 2020, the U.K. officially withdrew from the E.U., beginning a transition period of negotiations between the British government and the E.U. and other governments. On December 24, 2020, the E.U. and the U.K. announced they had entered into a post-Brexit deal on certain aspects of trade and other strategic and political issues. The impact of Brexit, the December 2020 post-Brexit agreement and the future relationship between the E.U. and the U.K., including terms not addressed in the December 2020 agreement, remain uncertain. Such uncertainty could cause political and economic uncertainty in the U.K. and the rest of Europe, which could harm our business and financial results. In particular, Brexit caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in global equity markets, currency exchange rates and other asset prices, including those related to real property. Brexit may also lead to divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, and compliance with those laws and regulations may be cumbersome, difficult or costly. Further, Brexit may lead other E.U. member countries to consider referendums regarding their E.U. membership. We cannot yet predict the future implications of Brexit, including whether it could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The impact to us from Brexit may affect not only our U.K. operations but operations in other parts of the E.U. Risks related to our indebtedness We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could decrease our flexibility and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $1 billion of Senior Notes outstanding and an additional approximately $750 million available to be drawn under the 2020 Credit Agreement. There can be no assurance that our future cash flows will be sufficient to make payments of interest or principal on the Senior Notes or any amounts due and payable under the 2020 Credit Agreement. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Furthermore, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, and if we incur additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. The 2020 Credit Agreement contains customary restrictive covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that we believe may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants restrict our ability and the ability of our domestic subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) incur liens, (iii) pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, investments or acquisitions, (iv) merge or consolidate with another person, and (v) sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the 2020 Credit Agreement requires us to comply with a maintenance covenant that we will not exceed a total net leverage ratio, calculated as total consolidated debt, net of up to $1.0 billion of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, to consolidated EBITDA, of 4.50 to 1.00. The operating restrictions and financial covenants in the 2020 Credit Agreement may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to engage in other business activities or to respond to changes in market conditions. Our ability to comply with any financial covenants could be affected materially by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to satisfy any such requirements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we may need to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants, seek alternative or additional sources of financing or reduce our expenditures. We may be unable to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financing on a timely basis or at all, or on favorable terms. A breach of the covenants under the 2020 Credit Agreement or the indenture that governs the Senior Notes could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration provision applies. In the event the holders of the Senior Notes or our other debt accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Our borrowings under the 2020 Credit Agreement will carry a variable interest rate based on the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (“EURIBOR”) or the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) as a benchmark for establishing the rate of interest. LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. The U.K. authority that regulates LIBOR announced that it will not compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after June 2023. The full impact of any transition away from LIBOR remains unclear. The 2020 Credit Agreement allows the Company and the administrative agent under the 2020 Credit Agreement to amend the 2020 Credit Agreement to replace LIBOR with one or more Secured Overnight Financing Rate based rates or another alternative benchmark rate. We may not be able to agree 28 with the administrative agent on a replacement reference rate that is as favorable as LIBOR, which may increase in the cost of our borrowings under the 2020 Credit Agreement. Our indebtedness increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, marketing and other general corporate activities; limits our ability to borrow additional funds; and may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs, reduce our access to capital or result in the loss of certain covenant suspensions . Our debt rating could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. In addition, the 2020 Credit Agreement provides that, during any period of time in which we maintain a corporate investment grade rating from any two of Standard & Poor’s Rating Services, Fitch Ratings, Inc. or Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. (such period, a “Covenant Suspension Period”), certain customary negative and affirmative covenants contained in the 2020 Credit Agreement are suspended, including the covenants restricting affiliate transactions, incurrence of indebtedness, investments, asset sales and restricted payments. A lowering of one or both of our investment grade ratings would result in increased compliance costs and would impose certain operating restrictions, either of which could be materially adverse to our operations and financial results.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains “forward-looking statements,” including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those stated above in under the heading “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” and in Item 1A. under the heading “Risk Factors,” as well as those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Our principal information, analytics and online marketplace services are described in the following paragraphs by type of service: CoStar CoStar ® is our subscription-based integrated platform for commercial real estate intelligence, which includes information about office, industrial, retail, multifamily and student housing properties, properties for sale, comparable sales, tenants, space available for lease, industry professionals and their business relationships, industry news and market and lease analytical capabilities. CoStar's revenue growth rates increased in 2021 compared to 2020 as the average number of subscribers increased in 2021 compared to 2020 and we resumed annual price increases for contract renewals occurring in the third quarter of 2021 after a temporary suspension. We expect CoStar revenue growth rates to increase in 2022 compared to 2021 as a result of signing up new subscribers, existing subscribers upgrading their subscriptions and the resumption of annual price increases. Information services We provide real estate and lease management technology solutions, including lease administration, lease accounting and abstraction services, through our CoStar Real Estate Manager ® service offerings, as well as portfolio and debt analysis, management and reporting capabilities through our CoStar Investment Analysis and CoStar Risk Analytics ® service offerings. We also provide analytics and benchmarking reports for the hospitality industry. STAR TM reports are provided on a subscription basis, but we also provide one-time or ad hoc reports or analysis on a transaction-basis . We provide information services internationally through our Grecam, Belbex and Thomas Daily businesses in France, Spain and Germany, respectively. Information services' revenue growth rates decreased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to the STR acquisition in 2019 which resulted in a full year of results in 2020. We expect information services revenue growth rates in 2022 to remain consistent with 2021. Multifamily Apartments.com TM is part of our network of apartment marketing sites, which primarily includes ApartmentFinder ® , ForRent.com ® , ApartmentHomeLiving.com TM , Apartamentos.com TM and Westside Rentals ® . Our network of subscription-based advertising services provides property management companies and landlords with a comprehensive advertising destination for their available rental units and offers renters a platform for searching for available rentals. Apartments.com also earns transaction-based revenue primarily from providing online tenant applications, including background and credit checks, and rental payment processing. Apartments.com has continued to successfully increase traffic to its network of sites, year-over-year, resulting in increased leads to customers. As leads per ad have increased, Apartments.com’s lower priced ad packages are generating more leads than top-level packages were generating approximately one year ago. In addition, rental vacancy rates have declined relative to historical averages reducing demand for top-level packages. As a result, customers began selecting lower-priced ad packages in the second half of 2021. Consequently, net new bookings declined year-over-year in 2021 resulting in a decrease in the Multifamily revenue growth rates in 2021 compared to 2020. We have implemented a revised pricing strategy to align prices at each product level with the value of the leads delivered. We expect multifamily revenue growth rates in 2022 to decrease when compared to 2021 due to lower net new booking activity in 2021. 33 LoopNet Our LoopNet network of commercial real estate websites offer subscription-based, online marketplace services that enable commercial property owners, landlords and real estate agents working on their behalf to advertise properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants use the LoopNet network of online marketplace services to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. This product offering also includes Realla in the United Kingdom and BureauxLocaux in France which was acquired on October 1, 2021. LoopNet's revenue growth rates decreased in 2021 when compared to 2020 as growth in the average price per listing declined in 2021 when compared to 2020. We expect LoopNet revenue growth rates in 2022 to decrease when compared to 2021. Residential On December 22, 2020, we acquired Homesnap ® , an online and mobile software platform that provides subscription-based access to applications that manage residential real estate agent workflow and marketing campaigns delivered on third-party platforms. On May 24, 2021, we acquired Homes.com ® , a residential advertising and marketing services company primarily operating through its portal, Homes.com. We expect residential revenue for 2022 to decline when compared to 2021 due to the discontinuation of certain Homes.com products and services, which is expected to be partially offset by expected increases in sales of Homesnap products and services. Other Marketplaces Our other marketplaces include Ten-X ® , an online auction platform for commercial real estate which was acquired on June 24, 2020. Also included is our BizBuySell network, which includes BizQuest ® and FindaFranchise and our Land.com network of sites, which includes LandsofAmerica, LandAndFarm and LandWatch ® . The BizBuySell network provides online marketplaces for businesses for-sale and our Land.com network of sites provide online marketplaces for rural lands for-sale.  Overall, revenues in other marketplaces increased during 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to two additional quarters of Ten-X revenue included in 2021. We expect other marketplaces revenue for 2022 to increase over 2021 as more properties are sold on Ten-X . Subscription-based Services The majority of our revenue is generated from service offerings which are distributed to our clients under subscription-based agreements that typically renew automatically and have a term of at least one year. We recognize subscription revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our annualized net new bookings of subscription-based services on all contracts were approximately $217 million, $184 million and $210 million, respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from all new subscription-based contracts or upgrades on all existing subscription-based contracts, less write-downs and cancellations, for the period reported. Net new bookings is considered a key indicator of future subscription revenue growth and is also used as a metric of sales force productivity by us and investors. However, information regarding net new bookings is not comparable to, nor should it be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues over time. Revenue from our subscription-based contracts was approximately 93%, 95% and 96% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decline in the percentage of our revenue from subscription-based contracts from 2019 to 2020 and from 2020 to 2021 was primarily due to the acquisitions of companies which contained a higher percentage of transaction-based revenue than our legacy businesses. For the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our contract renewal rates for existing CoStar Group company-wide subscription-based services for contracts with a term of at least one year were approximately 92%, 89% and 90%, respectively, and; therefore, our cancellation rates for those services for the same periods were approximately 8%, 11% and 10%, respectively. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our reve nue results. As a result, we believe that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance absent extraordinary circumstances. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline as a result of negative economic conditions, consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending or decreases in our customer base. Revenue from our subscription-based contracts with a term of at least one year was approximately 77%, 80% and 82% of total revenue for the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decline in the percentage of our revenue from subscription-based contracts from 2019 to 2020 and from 2020 to 2021 was primarily due to the acquisitions of companies which contained a higher percentage of transaction-based revenue than our legacy businesses, as well as, increases in our sales of shorter term advertising products. 34 Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic While the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, it did not materially affect our consolidated financial statements during 2020 or 2021. We are closely and continually monitoring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, employees, customers and communities. We continue to monitor the guidelines and mandates provided by governmental and health authorities and plan to continue adapting our business operations when and as deemed appropriate to comply with these guidelines and mandates and to respond to changing circumstances. Most of our workforce has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and, where permitted, has returned to the office. We have resumed in-person marketing events and some business travel. The global workforce has been operating in an extraordinary and mostly digital and remote manner as the world adapted during the COVID-19 pandemic. During this time, many working adults moved to different locations and adjusted to a different way of living. As we transitioned our employees back to the office, we experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, attrition among our workforce resulting in increased costs. Continued attrition or the inability to replenish and grow our work force may result in work disruptions in the future. Overall, the increased direct spend related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including office reconfiguration to enable social distancing and employee hiring and retention programs, has not been material to date and has had minimal impact on our financial position and operating results. It is currently unclear how the commercial real estate industry will ultimately be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as businesses formulate and execute plans for employees to return to the office, implement hybrid work arrangements – allowing work from the office or home, or switch to all work from home. If the demand for office space decreases significantly, there could be a downturn in the commercial real estate market which may materially adversely affect many of our clients. A depressed commercial real estate market would have a negative impact on our core customer base, which could impact our customers’ ability to subscribe and pay for our services and reduce demand for our services. Reduced demand and increased cancellations could cause our revenues or our revenue growth rates to decline and reduce our profitability. During 2021, excluding our multifamily service offering, which is discussed under Service Offerings above, our company-wide net new bookings and renewal rates for subscription-based services have returned to pre-pandemic levels. In addition, we saw improvements in collection trends along with improvements in the economy which led us to reduce our allowance for credit losses previously taken. Due to the uncertainty associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and any resulting economic impacts, we will continue to monitor these trends and the effect on our results of operations. Any anticipated changes in financial performance discussed in this report are based on our current observations and experience and involve estimates and assumptions. As the future extent and duration of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic remain unclear, our estimates and assumptions may evolve as conditions change and actual results may vary. The effects of the pandemic have not affected our ability to date to access funding on reasonably similar terms as were available to us prior to March 2020.We strengthened our liquidity position through an equity offering of common stock in May 2020 and an offering of Senior Notes and amendment and restatement of our credit facility in early July 2020. See Note 11 and Note 15 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our equity and Senior Notes offerings in 2020 and the 2020 Credit Agreement. Development, Investments and Expansion We plan to continue to invest in our business and our services, evaluate strategic growth opportunities, and pursue our key priorities as described below, while we closely monitor the economic developments from the COVID-19 pandemic and manage our response to such developments. We are committed to supporting, improving and enhancing our information, analytics and online marketplace solutions, including expanding and improving our offerings for our client base and site users, including property owners, property managers, buyers, commercial tenants and residential renters and buyers. We expect to continue our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate and cross-sell services, integrate recently completed acquisitions and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. We may reevaluate our priorities as the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic impact continues to evolve. Our key priorities for 2022 currently include: • Continuing to develop and invest in residential marketplaces. Our residential team is creating new and improved tools to help consumers have a highly contextual experience when searching for homes supported by high quality media and in-depth attributes of homes and details of the surrounding neighborhoods, parks and schools and to help consumers collaborate with their agent and other consumers. We are also creating new and improved tools to help agents promote their residential listings, connect with buyers and sellers and streamline their daily workflow. In October 2021, we reached an agreement to create, maintain and market a consumer-facing search website and mobile app for the Real Estate Board of New York's Residential Listing Service. In accordance with that agreement, we are developing a 35 custom version of the Homesnap platform, branded as Citysnap™, specifically for the five boroughs of New York City. To support the expanded product offering, we expect to increase our investment in residential products in 2022 by approximately $200 million. The most significant components of our investment are expected to be content development, marketing costs and technology resources.The increase in our investment in residential products in 2022 is expected to reduce our results of operations and cash flow from operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. We plan to continue to monitor and evaluate these investments and adjust our residential business strategy and level of investment as we determine appropriate. • Continuing to invest in CoStar, including: ◦ Enhancing benchmarking capabilities. We integrated STR's data into CoStar in 2021 and continue to develop dynamic analytics for and additional coverage of hospitality properties. We plan to apply STR's benchmarking capabilities within CoStar; ◦ Developing CMBS Analytics, which will aggregate loan and property data across covered markets. The initial CMBS Analytics release is expected to include loan origination metrics, distressed loan levels and maturity volumes, as well as detailed revenue and expense information. In later releases of this solution, we plan to include detailed prepayment information on disposed loans; ◦ Continuing to develop a solution for lenders that leverages CoStar's Risk Analytics capabilities to support lenders with risk management, underwriting, surveillance and compliance reporting. Lender was released in beta in February 2022 and provides a focus on portfolio risk analytics and surveillance to help lenders meet regulatory and accounting requirements. Subsequent releases are expected to focus on loan origination and underwriting; and ◦ Expanding our international presence by hiring managers and teams of field researchers in European markets. • Continuing to improve and market our Apartments.com service offerings to create the best and most comprehensive consumer rental search experience as well as continuing to advance the digital rental experience that allows renters to apply for leases and make rent payments, and for landlords to receive and assess tenant applications online through a single platform. We seek user feedback as we work to improve our services and continue to aggressively market our multifamily listing services in an effort to attract consumers and, in turn, provide more value to advertisers. Our Apartments.com marketing spending is focused on enhanced brand awareness and search engine marketing. As we continue to assess the success and effectiveness of our marketing campaign, we will continue to work to determine the optimal level and focus of our marketing investment for our multifamily listing services for future periods and may adjust our marketing spend and focus as we deem appropriate. Apartments.com has been successful in generating increased traffic to the network and as a result is delivering increased leads per ad to customers. We have implemented a new pricing strategy to align the product level prices with the value of the leads generated. We intend to monitor our new pricing strategy to determine whether current pricing reflects the increased lead generation we are delivering to our customers. • Continuing to invest in the LoopNet marketplaces. To support the LoopNet marketplaces, we implemented training and incentive programs for our existing sales team to increase sales of LoopNet advertisements, with a focus on brokers and property owners. We have enhanced the content on LoopNet.com (including high-quality imagery), seeking targeted advertisements and are providing premium marketing services (such as LoopNet Diamond, Platinum and Gold Ads) that increase a property listing’s exposure, and adding more content for premium listings to better meet the needs of a broader cross section of the commercial real estate industry. We are continuing our plans to recruit and develop a dedicated LoopNet sales team to help support and grow the business. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for the LoopNet.com network, we expect to continue to incur costs in a multi-media marketing campaign, reinforced with search engine optimization efforts and will continue to work to determine the optimal level and focus of this marketing effort for future periods and may adjust the spend and focus as deemed appropriate. • Continuing to invest in the Ten-X auction platform. We have integrated the Ten-X platform with both CoStar and LoopNet to expand the audience for Ten-X auctions to include our commercial real estate users. We also plan to enhance access to Ten-X's data room information from CoStar and LoopNet. To increase exposure of properties to be auctioned on Ten-X, we are allocating banner space on both our CoStar and LoopNet sites for advertising for Ten-X properties. We continue to execute our plan to expand the Ten-X sales force and focus on increasing the number of qualified bidders and the number of owners bringing properties to the site. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for the Ten-X platform, we expect to continue to incur costs in a multi-media marketing campaign, reinforced with search engine optimization efforts and will continue to work to determine the optimal level and focus of this marketing effort for future periods and may adjust the spend and focus as deemed appropriate. 36 We intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business in order to develop and distribute new services and functionality within our current platform or expand the reach of, or otherwise improve, our current service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services or corporate expansion, development or restructuring efforts could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to experience reduced revenues or generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Any development efforts must comply with our credit facility, which contains restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow and may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. For further discussion of our Company, strategy and products, see our business overview set forth in "Item 1. Business" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include net income before interest (expense) income, other (expense) income, loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA is our net income before interest (expense) income, other (expense) income, loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense , acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Adjusted EBITDA margin represents adjusted EBITDA divided by revenues for the period. Non-GAAP net income is determined by adjusting our net income for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business and loss on debt extinguishment, as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, and then subtracting an assumed provision for income taxes. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures. We believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income is net income. We believe the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP net income per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA margin are net income per diluted share and net income divided by revenue, respectively. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income and net income per diluted share. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. 37 EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and accompanying reconciliations, provide additional information to investors that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business without the impact of certain acquisition-related items. We have spent more than 30 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to these acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and loss on debt extinguishment. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs; settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year without the impact of these items. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest (expense) income, other (expense) income, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, loss on debt extinguishment and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of financial items that have been excluded from net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: • Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the diminishing value of any acquired trade names and other intangible assets and the use of our acquired technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. • Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. • Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. • The amount of interest (expense) income and other (expense) income we generate and incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows and outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest (expense) income and other (expense) income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. • Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. • The amount of loss on our debt extinguishment may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents losses from the early extinguishment of debt. However, we do not consider the amount of the loss on debt extinguishment to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of additional financial items that have been excluded from EBITDA to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: 38 • Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. • The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because such costs generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to acquisitions. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle, we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. • The amount of settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters or impairments on acquired intangible assets. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. • The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in a contract or a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring and related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income. In addition to these exclusions from net income, we subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. We assume a 25% tax rate, which approximated our historical long-term statutory corporate tax rate, excluding the impact of discrete items. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to investors to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our net income reconciled to our EBITDA and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): 39 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table provides our selected consolidated results of operations for the indicated periods (in thousands and as a percentage of total revenue): The following table provides our revenues by type of service (in thousands and as a percentage of total revenue): (1) As of September 30, 2021, Commercial Property and Land revenue has been further disaggregated into LoopNet, Residential and Other Marketplaces. Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect this presentation. (2) For further discussion of our Company, strategy and products, see our business overview set forth in "Item 1. Business" in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 40 Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2021 and Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following table provides a comparison of our selected consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands): (1) As of September 30, 2021, Commercial Property and Land revenue has been further disaggregated into LoopNet, Residential and Other Marketplaces. Prior period amounts have been adjusted to reflect this presentation. Revenues . Revenues increased to $1.9 billion in 2021, from $1.7 billion in 2020. The $285 million increase was attributable to increases across all of our primary service offerings, led by an $80 million, or 13%, increase in multifamily revenue. The multifamily increase was due to higher sales volume and upgrades of existing customers to higher value advertising packages earlier in 2021. Residential revenues were $75 million, and were solely comprised of operations from the acquisitions of Homesnap and Homes.com, which contributed revenues of $61 million and $14 million, respectively. CoStar revenues increased $58 million, or 9%, primarily due to higher sales volume driven by an increase in subscribers, as well as, subscribers upgrading their subscriptions, and the resumption of annual price increases for contract renewals that began in September 2021. Other marketplaces revenue increased $33 million, or 38%, primarily driven by Ten-X, which had an increase of $26 million due to two additional quarters of revenue compared to the prior year. LoopNet revenues increased $28 million, or 15%, as a result of stronger site traffic which drove an increase in the price per advertisement as compared to the prior year. Information services revenue increased $12 million, or 9%, primarily due to increases of $6 million and $4 million in revenue for our CoStar Real Estate Manager and STR service offerings, respectively. Gross Profit . Gross profit increased to $1.6 billion in 2021, from $1.4 billion in 2020. The gross profit percentage was 82% for 2021 compared to 81% for 2020. The increase in gross profit was due to higher revenues partially impacted by an increase in cost of revenues of $48 million, or 16%, primarily due to an increase of $48 million due to the acquisitions of Homesnap, Homes.com and Ten-X. These additional costs primarily consisted of personnel and data costs, and to a lesser extent, amortization, software and equipment costs and bank and merchant fees. 41 Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $622 million in 2021, from $536 million in 2020. The $86 million increase was attributable to a $46 million increase in marketing expenses, primarily driven by a $32 million increase in marketing agency spending, primarily for LoopNet and Ten-X, and to a lesser extent, increases in events, digital and other forms of marketing, partially offset by decreases in multifamily agency spending and search engine marketing. There was also a $34 million increase in personnel costs, primarily attributable to the acquisitions of Homesnap, Homes.com and Ten-X, and to a lesser extent, an increase in commissions expense for other products of $7 million, partially offset by a $4 million decrease in bonus expense. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $201 million in 2021, from $163 million in 2020, and remained consistent as a percentage of revenues at 10% in 2021 and 2020. The $38 million increase in the amount of software development expense was primarily due to a $33 million increase in personnel costs driven by the acquisitions of Homesnap, Homes.com and Ten-X, as well as, increased headcount to support the development of our products, and to a lesser extent, a $3 million increase in software equipment expense. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses decreased to $257 million in 2021, from $300 million in 2020, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 13% in 2021 from 18% in 2020. The $43 million decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to the $52 million break fee and $8 million in extension payments that were recognized in the prior year in connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement with RentPath, which was terminated in December 2020. In addition, there was a $14 million decrease in credit loss expense due to better than expected collections, resulting in updated assumptions regarding credit losses and a decrease in reserves previously increased due to uncertainty about the economic effects of COVID-19 pandemic. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $13 million in general and administrative expenses due to the acquisitions of Homesnap, Homes.com and Ten-X, as well as, increases of $6 million in software and equipment expense, $3 million in personnel costs, $2 million each in depreciation, professional services, occupancy and travel costs. Customer Base Amortization Expense. Customer base amortization expense increased to $75 million in 2021, from $62 million in 2020, and remained consistent as a percentage of revenues at 4% in 2021 and 2020. The increase in customer base amortization expense was primarily due to the acquisitions of Homesnap, Homes.com and Ten-X. Interest Expense, net. Interest expense, net was $32 million in 2021, as compared to interest expense, net of  $17 million in 2020. The increase of  $14 million in 2021 was primarily due to interest expense of $28 million recognized during 2021 on our Senior Notes issued on July 1, 2020 as compared to $14 million in 2020. In addition, there was a decrease of $4 million in interest income caused by lower rates of return on our cash and cash equivalent balances compared to the prior year, partially offset by interest earned on higher average cash balances. These changes were partially offset by prior year interest expense of $5 million incurred on the $745 million draw on our revolving credit facility in the first quarter of 2020. Other Income (Expense), net. Other income (expense), net was a net income of $3 million in 2021, as compared to net expense of $1 million in 2020. The increase in other income was due to rental income on the Richmond building, which was acquired in 2021, and to a lesser extent, increases in foreign exchange gains due to rate fluctuations. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense increased to $111 million in 2021, from $44 million in 2020, as a result of  higher income before taxes and an increase in the effective tax rate for 2021 to 28%, compared to 16% in 2020. The increase in the effective tax rate was due to a tax restructuring gain, as well as, a decrease in excess tax benefits. These increases were partially offset by a reduction of reserves for uncertain tax positions previously recognized. For a comparison of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 to the year ended December 31, 2019, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2021. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2021 and Year Ended December 31, 2020 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with the primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which primarily includes Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest (expense) income and other (expense) income, loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of the business. However, this 42 measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $1.9 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, from $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. The $276 million increase in North America revenues was attributable to increases in revenues for several of our services. Multifamily revenues increased $80 million due to higher sales volume and upgrades of existing customers to higher value advertising packages earlier in 2021. Residential revenues increased $75 million due to the acquisitions of Homesnap and Homes.com, which contributed revenues of $61 million and $14 million, respectively. CoStar revenues increased $53 million, primarily due to higher sales volume driven by an increase in customers, as well as, customers upgrading their subscriptions, and the resumption of annual price increases for contract renewals that began in September 2021. Other marketplaces revenue increased $33 million, primarily driven by  Ten-X, which had an increase of $26 million due to two additional quarters of revenue compared to the prior year. LoopNet revenues increased $25 million as a result of stronger site traffic which drove an increase in the price per advertisement as compared to the prior year. Information services revenue increased $10 million due to increases of $6 million and $2 million in revenue for our CoStar Real Estate Manager and STR service offerings, respectively. International revenues increased to $67 million in 2021, from $57 million in 2020. The $10 million increase in International revenues was driven by growth in CoStar and STR, which were partially due to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates, and to a lesser extent, increases in LoopNet products, including the acquisition of BureauxLocaux. Segment EBITDA. North America EBITDA increased to $557 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, from $411 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in North America EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by increases in personnel, marketing and general and administrative costs. International EBITDA increased to income of $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from a loss of $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was due to increased revenue and lower general and administrative costs, partially offset by increases in personnel and marketing costs. For a comparison of our business segment results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 to the year ended December 31, 2019, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 24, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe the balance of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, which was $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2021, along with cash generated by ongoing operations and continued access to capital markets, will be sufficient to satisfy the Company's cash requirements over the next 12 months and beyond. The Company’s material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Debt. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had outstanding an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion of 2.800% Senior Notes due July 15, 2030. Future interest payments associated with the Senior Notes are $252 million, with $28 million payable within 12 months. Leases. The Company has lease arrangements for office facilities, data centers and certain vehicles. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had fixed lease payment obligations of $134 million, with $30 million  payable within 12 months. Purchase Obligations. The Company’s purchase obligations are associated with agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum services to be used, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions, and the approximate timing of the transaction and have an original term greater than one year. The services acquired under these agreements primarily relate to web hosting, third party data or listings and software subscriptions. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had purchase obligations of $95 million, with $40 million payable within 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions. We currently plan to expand our Richmond, Virginia campus which may result in a material cash requirement in 2022 and beyond. We continue to assess financing options for the project. 43 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $71 million to $3.8 billion  primarily due to cash generated from operations of $470 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options and participation in our employee stock purchase plan of $18 million, partially offset by, cash paid for acquisitions of $193 million, purchases of property and equipment and other intangibles of $189 million, including $123 million for the purchase of an office building and the underlying land located in Richmond, Virginia and corporate aircraft for $40 million, as well as, $33 million of repurchases of common  stock from employees to satisfy the employees' minimum tax withholding obligations upon the vesting of restricted stock grants. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $470 million compared to $486 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The $16 million decrease was due to a decrease in working capital of $141 million driven by payment of the $52 million termination fee pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement with RentPath in the first quarter of 2021, partially offset by an increase in net income excluding certain non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization and deferred income taxes. We expect to increase our investment in residential products in 2022 by approximately $200 million, which is expected to reduce our cash flow from operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $381 million compared to $464 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The $83 million decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions of $233 million, partially offset by an increase in purchases of property, equipment and other assets which included $123 million for the purchase of an office building and the underlying land located in Richmond, Virginia and corporate aircraft for $40 million, and proceeds from the sale of our ARS investments of $10 million received during 2020. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $15.7 million compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $2.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. This decrease in cash provided by financing activities is primarily due to proceeds from our May 2020 equity offering, net of transaction costs, of $1.7 billion, as well as, proceeds from the issuance of our Senior Notes, net of transaction costs, of $983 million during 2020. As permitted under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, we deferred payroll taxes due in 2020; all amounts deferred were paid during the year ended December 31, 2021. 44 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a “critical accounting estimate” because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. We consider policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies: • Long-lived assets, intangible assets and goodwill; • Income taxes; • Revenue recognition; and • Business combinations. With respect to our accounting policy for long-lived assets, intangible assets and goodwill, we further supplement in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K with the following: We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to recover the carrying value of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: • Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; • Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; • Significant negative industry or economic trends; or • Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from a business combination and is calculated as the excess of purchase consideration paid in a business combination over the fair value of assets of the net identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually by each reporting unit, or more frequently if an event or other circumstance indicates that the fair value of a reporting unit may be below its carrying amount. We may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or elect to bypass such assessment. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, or we elect to bypass such assessment, we then determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, growth rate and future financial performance. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies and determined by management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. Assumptions about the growth rate and future financial performance of a reporting unit are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows. These assumptions are subject to change from period to period and could be adversely impacted by the uncertainty surrounding global market conditions, commercial real estate conditions and the competitive environment in which we operate. Changes in these or other factors could negatively affect our reporting units' fair value and potentially result in impairment charges. Such impairment charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. 45 As of October 1, 2021, we performed an assessment of the  relevant qualitative factors for our North America and International reporting units and concluded that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit was less than its respective carrying amounts. There have been no events or changes in circumstances as a result of our qualitative impairment analysis on October 1, 2021, that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. For an in-depth discussion of each of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies and further information regarding estimates and assumptions involved in their application, see Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption.