********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The statements in this section describe the most significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operation and the trading price of our debt or equity securities. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. Readers should not interpret the disclosure of any risk factor to imply that the risk has not already materialized. In addition, this section sets forth statements which constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “estimates,” “anticipates,” “predicts,” “projects,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “target,” “forecast,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “should,” “may” and “will” or the negative versions thereof and similar words, terms and expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Annual Report. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy and fuel costs; lower sales volumes; loss of customers due to outsourcing trends; the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions; supply chain constraints and macroeconomic conditions, including inflationary pressures and higher interest rates; fluctuations in costs of materials and labor, including increased medical costs; costs and possible effects of union organizing activities; failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety; the effect on operations of exchange rate fluctuations, tariffs and other political, economic and regulatory risks; uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation; our ability to meet our aspirations relating to environmental, social and governance (ESG) opportunities, improvements and efficiencies; the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting; the effect of new accounting pronouncements; risk associated with cybersecurity threats, including disruptions caused by the inaccessibility of computer systems data and cybersecurity risk management; the initiation or outcome of litigation, investigations or other proceedings; higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products; the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events including global health pandemics; the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any; changes in global tax and labor laws; and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. Cintas undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such statements are made, except otherwise as required by law. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those described in this section and elsewhere in this report and may also be described from time to time in our future reports filed with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm our business. Forward-looking and other statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding our greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction plans and other ESG aspirations are not an indication that these statements are necessarily material to investors or required to be disclosed in our filings with the SEC. In addition, historical, current and forward-looking GHG-related and/or ESG-related statements may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. 7 Risks Relating to Business Strategy and Operations Negative global economic factors may adversely affect our financial performance. Negative economic conditions, in North America and our other markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, recessionary conditions, geopolitical developments, tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could adversely affect the demand for Cintas’ products and services. Increases in labor costs, including the cost to provide employee-partner related healthcare benefits, minimum wages, labor shortages or shortages of skilled labor, regulations regarding the classification of employees and/or their eligibility for overtime wages, higher material costs for items such as fabrics and textiles, the inability to obtain insurance coverage at cost-effective rates, higher interest rates, inflation, global health pandemics, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could increase our costs of rental uniforms and facility services, cost of other services and selling and administrative expenses. As a result, these factors could adversely affect our revenue and consolidated results of operations. Increased competition could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We operate in highly competitive industries and compete with national, regional and local providers. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in these industries. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, Cintas may be required to lower prices, which would adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Cintas' competitors also generally compete with Cintas for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. In addition, our customers and prospects may decide to perform certain services in-house instead of outsourcing these services to us. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenue and consolidated results of operations. An inability to open new, cost-effective operating facilities may adversely affect our expansion efforts. We plan to expand our presence in existing markets and enter new markets. The opening of new operating facilities is necessary to gain the capacity required for this expansion. Our ability to open new operating facilities depends on our ability to identify attractive locations, negotiate leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms, identify and obtain adequate utility and water sources and comply with environmental regulations, zoning laws and other similar factors. Any inability to effectively identify and manage these items may adversely affect our expansion efforts, and consequently, adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Risks associated with our acquisition practice could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Historically, a portion of our growth has come from acquisitions. We continue to evaluate opportunities for acquiring businesses that may supplement our internal growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify and purchase suitable acquisitions. In addition, the success of any acquisition, including the ability to realize anticipated cost synergies, depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired company. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management's attention and our financial and other resources. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, we may not be able to realize anticipated cost synergies resulting from acquisitions and our business could suffer. Although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover or adequately protect against all material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to identify suitable acquisitions and successfully integrate these acquired businesses, or to discover liabilities associated with such businesses in the diligence process, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We require all our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport 8 availability and cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, U.S. and foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors, including the potential negative impact of global health pandemics affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We rely extensively on information technology systems, including third-party systems, to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. Disruptions in the availability of any internal or external information technology systems due to implementation of a new system or otherwise, or privacy breaches involving information technology systems, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our revenue, consolidated results of operations and reputation and expose us to litigation risk. Our businesses rely on various information technology systems, including third-party systems, to provide customer information, process customer transactions and provide other general information necessary to manage our businesses. Our information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption due to cybersecurity attacks, system conversions, power outages, computer or telecommunication failures, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes and usage errors by our employees. Although we have an active disaster recovery plan in place that is frequently reviewed and tested, and we believe that we have adopted appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology-related and other potential disruptions, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays and interruptions in our ability to provide products and services to our customers. Any disruption caused by the unavailability of our information technology systems could adversely affect our revenue, could require us to make a significant investment to fix or replace them and, therefore, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Cyber-security attacks are evolving, and cybercriminals have increasingly demonstrated advanced capabilities, such as zero-day vulnerabilities and rapid integration of new technology such as generative artificial intelligence. Cyber-security attacks may include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Our response to cybersecurity incidents, and our investments in our technology and our controls, processes and practices related to cybersecurity incidents and risks from cybersecurity threats, may not be sufficient to shield us from significant losses or liability. Given the increasing sophistication of bad actors and complexity of the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or disable systems, a cybersecurity breach or attack could potentially persist for an extended period of time before being detected. As a result, we may not be able to anticipate the attack or respond adequately or timely, and the extent of a particular cybersecurity incident, and the steps that we may need to take to investigate the incident, may not be immediately clear. It could take a significant amount of time before an investigation can be completed and full, reliable information about the incident becomes known. During an investigation, it is possible we may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how to remediate it, which could further adversely impact us. In addition, new regulations could result in us being required to disclose information about a material cybersecurity incident before it has been mitigated or resolved, or even fully investigated. We have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past, but none of these incidents, individually or in the aggregate, have had a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. If the network of security controls, policy enforcement mechanisms and monitoring systems to address these threats to our technology fails, or we are unable to successfully address cybersecurity incidents or the risks from cybersecurity threats, we could experience production downtimes, operational delays and interruptions in our ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected Company, customer, or employee information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, or other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks which could result in financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability and damage to our reputation. In addition, we rely on software applications, enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors for certain information technology services, including our SAP enterprise system, payroll data, risk management data and lease data. If these third-party vendors, as well as our suppliers and other vendors, experience service interruptions or damage, security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or other similar events or intrusions, our business and our consolidated results of operations may be adversely affected. 9 The world has experienced an exponential level of growth in the availability of potential applications of artificial intelligence (AI). AI could disrupt certain aspects of our business and evolve use of technology in ways that are not yet known. If we are not able to adapt and effectively incorporate potential advantages of AI in our business, it may negatively impact our ability to compete. On the other hand, if we are not able to effectively manage the risks of AI, including the potential for poor or inconsistent quality, privacy concerns, risks related to automated decision-making, and the potential for exposure of confidential and/or propriety information, we may suffer harm to our consolidated results of operations and reputation. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business and stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the consolidated financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. This may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining competent personnel in key positions. Failure to preserve positive labor relationships with our employee-partners could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We believe that a key component of our success is our corporate culture, which has been imparted by management throughout our corporate organization. Our corporate culture, along with our entire operation, depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain key employee-partners. Competitive pressures and labor shortages within and outside our industry may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain key employee-partners which could adversely affect our businesses. We believe we have positive labor relationships with our employee-partners. However, factors such as difficulty to attract key employees, reduced employee engagement, third-party organizational efforts and increased employee-partner turnover could adversely affect our labor relationships with our employee-partners. A failure to preserve positive labor relationships with our employee-partners and could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Unexpected events could negatively impact our business and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities, severe weather conditions and natural disasters such as hurricanes, fires, floods, droughts and tornadoes (including those caused by climate change), geopolitical conflicts, war or terrorist activities, unplanned outages, global health pandemics, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems or changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our businesses, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Any of these events could result in customer disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems. In addition, negative publicity related to such unexpected events, whether warranted or not, may impact brand image perception and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Financial Risks Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. Our outstanding indebtedness along with adverse interest rate fluctuations may have negative consequences on our business, such as requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend increases, stock buybacks and other general corporate purposes, as well as increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. In addition, it may limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business or industry or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. 10 Changes in the fuel and energy industry could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. The price of fuel and energy needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside of our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand fluctuations for fuel and other energy related products, actions by energy producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters, environmental concerns including the impact of legislative and regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions and global health pandemics. Increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Canadian dollar. In fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar represented less than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenue and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies, particularly in the event of significant increases in foreign currency revenue, will impact our revenue and operating income and the value of consolidated balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. This impact could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We may recognize impairment charges, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and our long-lived assets for impairment when required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP). These accounting principles require that we record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their estimated fair values. The estimated fair value of these assets is impacted by, but not limited to, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions in the locations in which we operate. Deterioration in these general economic conditions may result in: declining revenue, which can lead to excess capacity and declining operating cash flow; reductions in management's estimates for future revenue and operating cash flow growth; increases in borrowing rates and other deterioration in factors that impact our weighted average cost of capital; and deteriorating real estate values. If our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets indicates an impairment of the carrying value for which we recognize an impairment charge, this may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. The effects of credit market volatility and changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and consolidated results of operations. Our operating cash flows, combined with access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity. Our access to the credit markets will depend on a variety of factors, such as prevailing economic and credit market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity and perceptions of our financial prospects. For example, in the event that the ratings of our commercial paper or our outstanding long-term debt issues were substantially lowered or withdrawn for any reason, or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of long-term debt securities were significantly lowered, particularly if we no longer had investment grade ratings, our ability to access the debt markets may be adversely affected. In addition, deterioration in the global credit markets may limit our ability to access credit markets, which could adversely affect our liquidity and/or increase our cost of borrowing. In addition, credit market deterioration and its actual or perceived effects on our results of operations and financial condition, along with deterioration in general economic conditions, may increase the likelihood that the major independent credit agencies will downgrade our credit ratings, which could increase our cost of borrowing. Increases in our cost of borrowing could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. 11 Legal and Regulatory Risks Failure to comply with federal and state regulations to which we are subject could result in penalties or costs that could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Our business is subject to complex and stringent state and federal regulations, including employment laws and regulations, minimum wage requirements, overtime requirements, working condition requirements, citizenship requirements, transportation laws and regulations, ESG-related regulations, cybersecurity laws and regulations, data privacy and protection laws and regulations, environmental regulations, and other laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) and under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended (OSHA Act). We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with the USDOT regulations, the OSHA Act and other laws and regulations to which we are subject. Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations, including any laws or regulations that may be enacted by the current U.S. presidential administration and Congress, may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. The impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. Compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. Any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines by government authorities, payment of damages to private litigants, or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to service customers and our consolidated results of operations.  In addition, we expect there will likely be increasing levels of regulation, disclosure-related and otherwise, with respect to ESG matters, and increased regulation will likely lead to increased compliance costs as well as scrutiny that could heighten all of the risks identified in this risk factor. We are subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We are subject to various litigation claims and legal proceeding arising from the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. Certain of these lawsuits or potential future lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability and expense material to our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs that adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Our operating locations are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing discharges of pollutants to the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. The operation of our businesses entails risks under environmental laws and regulations. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under these laws and regulations. We are currently involved in a limited number of remedial investigations and actions at various locations. While based on information currently known to us, we believe that we maintain adequate reserves with respect to these matters, our liability could exceed forecasted amounts, and the imposition of additional clean-up obligations or the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant additional costs which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Under applicable environmental laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to pay the costs of removing or remediating hazardous materials located on or emanating from property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of or was responsible for the presence of such hazardous materials. While we regularly engage in environmental due diligence in connection with acquisitions, we can give no assurance that locations that have been acquired or leased have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations during prior periods or that future uses or conditions will not make us liable under these laws or expose us to third-party actions, including tort suits. Increased global focus on climate change may result in the imposition of new or additional regulations or requirements applicable to, and increased financial risks for, our business and industry. A number of government authorities and agencies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes to address climate change, including the regulation of GHG emissions. The outcome of new legislation or regulation in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we operate may result in new or additional requirements, including to fund energy efficiency 12 activities or renewable energy use, and fees or restrictions on certain activities or materials. Compliance with these climate change initiatives may also result in additional costs to us, including, among other things, increased production costs, additional taxes, additional investments in renewable energy use and other initiatives, reduced emission allowances or additional restrictions on production or operations. We may not be able to timely recover the cost of compliance with such new or more stringent laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from investors, customers, regulators, policymakers and other stakeholders regarding ESG matters may adversely affect our reputation or otherwise adversely impact our share price, demand for our securities and business and results of operations. Companies across all industries are facing increasing scrutiny from stakeholders related to ESG matters, including practices and disclosures related to environmental stewardship; social responsibility; diversity, equity and inclusion; and workplace rights. The heightened and sometimes conflicting stakeholder focus on ESG issues related to our business requires the continuous monitoring of various and evolving laws, regulations, standards and expectations and the associated reporting requirements. As the nature, scope and complexity of ESG reporting, diligence and disclosure requirements expand, we may have to undertake additional costs to control, assess and report on ESG metrics. Any failure or perceived failure, whether or not valid, to pursue or fulfill our ESG aspirations, targets or objectives or to satisfy various ESG reporting standards within the timelines we announce, or at all, could result in adverse publicity, reputational harm, or loss of customer and/or investor confidence, which could adversely affect our business and consolidated results of operations. In addition, our share price and demand for our securities could be adversely affected. In addition, our ability to achieve our ESG aspirations, including to achieve Net Zero GHG emissions by 2050, and to accurately and transparently report our progress presents numerous operational, financial, legal and other risks, and may be dependent on the actions of suppliers and other third parties, significant technological advancements with respect to the development and availability of reliable, affordable and sustainable alternative solutions, all of which are outside of our control. If we are unable to meet our ESG aspirations or evolving stakeholder expectations and industry standards, or if we are perceived to have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for ESG issues, our reputation could be negatively impacted. In addition, in recent years, investor advocacy groups and certain institutional investors have placed increasing importance on ESG matters. If, as a result of their assessment of our ESG practices, certain investors are unsatisfied with our actions or progress, they may reconsider their investment in our Company. Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations. Changes in tax laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, or other tax law implementations or interpretations, including the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA), which includes a corporate alternative minimum tax on certain large corporations, incentives to address climate change mitigation and other non-income tax provisions, including an excise tax on the repurchase of corporate stock could increase our effective tax rate, restrict our ability to repatriate undistributed offshore earnings, or impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. In addition, some countries have enacted or have committed to enact Pillar Two global minimum tax, which may increase our tax expense in future years. We are also subject to tax audits, including with respect to transfer pricing, in the U.S. and other jurisdictions and our tax positions may be challenged by tax authorities. Although we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, there can be no assurance that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued, that additional tax exposures will not be identified in the future or that additional tax reserves will not be necessary for any such exposures. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of challenges to our tax filing positions could result in a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Business Strategy Cintas helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes, primarily in the U.S., as well as Canada and Latin America, get READY™ to open their doors with confidence every day by providing a wide range of products and services that enhance our customers’ image and help keep their facilities and employees clean, safe and looking their best. With products and services including uniforms, mats, mops, restroom supplies, first aid and safety products, fire extinguishers and testing, and safety training, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday ® . We are North America's leading provider of corporate identity uniforms through rental and sales programs, as well as a significant provider of related business services, including entrance mats, restroom cleaning services and supplies, first aid and safety services and fire protection products and services. Cintas' principal objective is "to exceed customers' expectations in order to maximize the long-term value of Cintas for shareholders and working partners," and it provides the framework and focus for Cintas' business strategy. This strategy is to achieve revenue growth for all our products and services by increasing our penetration at existing customers and by broadening our customer base to include market segments to which we have not historically served. We will also continue to identify additional product and service opportunities for our current and future customers. To pursue the strategy of increasing penetration, we have a highly talented and diverse team of service professionals visiting our customers on a regular basis. This frequent contact with our customers enables us to develop close personal relationships. The combination of our distribution system and these strong customer relationships provides a platform from which we launch additional products and services. We pursue the strategy of broadening our customer base in several ways. Cintas has a national sales organization introducing all its products and services to prospects in all market segments. Our broad range of products and services allows our sales organization to consider any type of business a prospect. We also broaden our customer base through geographic expansion. Finally, we evaluate strategic acquisitions as opportunities arise. Results of Operations This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section focuses on discussion of fiscal 2024 results compared to fiscal 2023 results and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this filing. The discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those set forth under " ." For discussion of fiscal 2023 results compared to fiscal 2022 results, see the "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on July 27, 2023. Cintas classifies its business into two reportable operating segments and places the remainder of its operating segments in an All Other category. Cintas’ two reportable operating segments are Uniform Rental and Facility Services and First Aid and Safety Services. The Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies and the sale of items from our catalogs to our customers on route are included within this reportable operating segment. The First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment consists of first aid and safety products and services. The remainder of Cintas’ business, which consists of the Fire Protection Services operating segment and the Uniform Direct Sale operating segment, is included in All Other. These operating segments consist of fire protection products and services and the direct sale of uniforms and related items. Cintas evaluates operating segment performance based on revenue and operating income. Revenue and operating income for the reportable operating segments for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 are presented in entitled Operating Segment Information of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The Company regularly reviews its operating segments for reporting purposes based on the information its chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance and makes changes when appropriate. 19 The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of income data as a percent of revenue by reportable operating segment, All Other and in total for the fiscal years ended May 31: Fiscal 2024 Compared to Fiscal 2023 Fiscal 2024 total revenue was $9.6 billion, an increase of 8.9% over the prior fiscal year. Revenue increased organically by 8.0% primarily as a result of increased sales volume. Organic revenue growth adjusts for the impact of acquisitions, workday differences and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Total revenue was positively impacted by 0.4% due to acquisitions and by 0.5% due to one more workday in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Organic revenue growth by quarter for fiscal 2024 is as follows: 20 Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue consists predominantly of revenue derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms and other garments, including flame resistant clothing and the rental and/or sale of mats, mops, shop towels, restroom supplies and other rental services. Revenue from the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased 8.2%, to $7,465.2 million compared to $6,897.1 million in fiscal 2023. Organic revenue growth for this reportable operating segment was 7.4%. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.4% due to acquisitions and 0.4% due to one more workday in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Revenue growth was a result of new business, the penetration of additional products and services into existing customers and price increases, partially offset by lost business. New business growth resulted from an increase in the number and productivity of sales representatives. Generally, sales productivity improvements are due to increased tenure and improved training, which produce a higher number of products and services sold. Other revenue, consisting of revenue from the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other, increased 11.1%, to $2,131.4 million compared to $1,918.6 million in fiscal 2023. Revenue improved from increases in sales representative productivity and price increases. Revenue increased organically by 10.2%. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.5% due to acquisitions and by 0.4% due to one more workday in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Cost of uniform rental and facility services increased 6.4% compared to fiscal 2023. Cost of uniform rental and facility services consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in-service inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other ancillary items. The change from the prior year was primarily due to higher Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment sales volume, as well as an increase in material cost to support increased revenue growth. The cost of uniform rental and facility services as a percent of revenue improved compared to fiscal 2023 from 52.7% to 51.8% primarily due to efficiency gains in energy usage, more efficient use of in-service inventory, and improved leverage of fixed costs. Cost of other consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly first aid and safety products, personal protective equipment, uniforms and fire protection products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other. Cost of other increased 3.5% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, as a result of higher other revenue, but decreased as a percent of revenue to 49.0%, compared to 52.7% in fiscal 2023. The improvement in cost of sales as a percent to revenue was primarily due to favorable changes in the sales mix and sourcing and productivity initiatives in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment as well as i mproved leverage of fixed costs for both the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other. Selling and administrative expenses increased $247.1 million, to 27.3% as a percent of revenue, compared to 26.9% in fiscal 2023. The change as a percent of revenue was primarily due to investing in additional selling resources, investing in our management trainee program, expanding our talent acquisition efforts for future growth, as well as costs associated with a tentative legal settlement discussed in entitled Litigation and Other Contingencies of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." Net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) was $95.0 million in fiscal 2024 compared to $109.5 million in fiscal 2023. The change was primarily due to a decrease in the average amount of outstanding debt during fiscal 2024. Income before income taxes was $1,973.6 million, an increase of $280.5 million, or 16.6%, compared to fiscal 2023. The increase in income before income taxes was primarily due to revenue growth, as well as the improvements in gross margin previously mentioned, which were partially offset by the change in selling and administrative expenses. Cintas' effective tax rate for both fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 was 20.4%. The effective tax rate in both periods was impacted by certain discrete items, primarily the tax accounting impact for stock-based compensation. Net income for fiscal 2024 of $1,571.6 million was a 16.6% increase compared to fiscal 2023. Diluted earnings per share of $15.15 was a 16.6% increase compared to fiscal 2023 diluted earnings per share of $12.99. Diluted earnings per share increased primarily due to the increase in net income. 21 Uniform Rental and Facility Services Reportable Operating Segment Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $568.1 million, or 8.2%, and the cost of uniform rental and facility services increased $232.9 million, or 6.4%, due to the reasons previously discussed. The reportable operating segment's fiscal 2024 gross margin was 48.2% of revenue compared to 47.3% in fiscal 2023. The improvement in gross margin was primarily the result of efficiency gains in energy usage, more efficient use of in-service inventory, and improved leverage of fixed costs. Selling and administrative expenses for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased $154.4 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 in order to support revenue growth as well as invest in technology and selling resources. Selling and administrative expense as a percent of revenue for fiscal 2024 was 26.0% compared to 25.9% in fiscal 2023. As a percent of revenue, selling and administrative expenses were largely consistent as compared to the prior fiscal year. Income before income taxes for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased $180.7 million, or 12.2%, for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. The increase in income before income taxes was due to the previously discussed growth in revenue and improvements in gross margin. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue was 22.2% compared to 21.4% in fiscal 2023. The improvement over the prior fiscal year was primarily a result of the previously discussed improvement in gross margin. First Aid and Safety Services Reportable Operating Segment First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $115.8 million in fiscal 2024, a 12.2% increase compared to fiscal 2023. Organic revenue growth for this reportable operating segment was 11.6%. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.2% due to acquisitions, positively impacted by 0.5% due to one more workday in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 and negatively impacted by 0.1% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The increase in revenue was driven by many factors including increases in new business sold by sales representatives, penetration of additional products and services into existing customers, price increases and strong customer retention. Cost of sales for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment increased $5.3 million, or 1.1%, in fiscal 2024, due to higher sales volume. Gross margin for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment is defined as revenue less cost of goods, warehouse expenses and service expenses. Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 55.5% for fiscal 2024 compared to 50.7% in fiscal 2023. The improvement in gross margin as a percent of revenue was primarily driven by favorable changes in the sales mix, sourcing and productivity initiatives, as well as i mproved leverage of fixed costs and a reduction in energy expense as a percent of revenue. Selling and administrative expenses for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment increased by $52.1 million, or 17.3%, in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, and increased as a percent of revenue to 33.1% in fiscal 2024 compared to 31.7% in fiscal 2023. The change as a percent of revenue was primarily due to increases in labor and other employee-partner related expenses, including investing in additional selling resources for future growth. Income before income taxes for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment was $239.2 million in fiscal 2024, an increase of $58.5 million, or 32.4%, compared to fiscal 2023. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue at 22.4%, increased from 19.0% in fiscal 2023 due to the previously discussed growth in revenue and improvements in gross margin, partially offset by the change in selling and administrative expenses. 22 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table summarizes our cash flows and cash and cash equivalents as of and for the fiscal years ended May 31: Cash and cash equivalents as of May 31, 2024 and 2023, include $42.1 million and $29.9 million, respectively, that is located outside of the U.S. Cash flows provided by operating activities have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. We generally use these cash flows to fund most, if not all, of our operations and expansion activities and dividends on our common stock. We may also use cash flows provided by operating activities, as well as proceeds from long-term debt and short-term borrowings, to fund growth and expansion opportunities, as well as other cash requirements such as the repurchase of our common stock and payment of long-term debt. We expect our cash flows from operating activities to remain sufficient to provide us with adequate levels of liquidity. In addition, we have access to $2.0 billion of debt capacity from our amended and restated revolving credit facility. We believe the Company has sufficient liquidity to operate in the current business environment for at least the next 12 months and the foreseeable future thereafter. Acquisitions, repurchases of our common stock and dividends remain strategic objectives, but they will be dependent on the economic outlook and liquidity of the Company. Net cash provided by operating activities was $2,079.8 million for fiscal 2024, which was an increase of $482.0 million, or 30.2%, compared to fiscal 2023. The increase was primarily the result of an increase in net income and favorable changes in working capital, specifically inventories, net and uniforms and other rental items in service and accounts receivable, net. These improvements were partially offset by unfavorable changes in working capital, primarily current liabilities and deferred income taxes. Net cash used in investing activities was $608.6 million in fiscal 2024, compared to $388.7 million in fiscal 2023. Net cash used in investing activities includes capital expenditures, purchases of investments and cash paid for acquisitions of businesses. Capital expenditures were $409.5 million and $331.1 million for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2024 included $261.2 million for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment and $100.0 million for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment. The increase in capital expenditures from fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2024 was due to investments in the reportable operating segments to support continued revenue growth, an increase in equipment purchases, primarily trucks, due to vendors clearing backlogged orders, and spending associated with the SAP implementation in the Fire Protection Services operating segment, which is included in All Other. Cash paid for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, was $186.8 million and $46.4 million for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. The acquisitions in both fiscal 2024 and 2023 occurred in our Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, our First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and our Fire Protection operating segment, which is included in All Other. Net cash used in investing activities also included $7.5 million and $4.6 million of purchases of investments during fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,253.5 million for fiscal 2024, compared to $1,172.8 million in fiscal 2023. The increase in cash used in financing activities was due to the increase in share buyback activity and dividends paid. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in payments of debt and commercial paper in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. On July 27, 2021, we announced the Board authorized a $1.5 billion share buyback program, which was completed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. From the inception of the July 27, 2021 share buyback program through May 2024, Cintas purchased a total of 3.6 million shares of Cintas common stock at an average price of $421.77 per share for a total purchase price of $1.5 billion. On July 26, 2022, Cintas announced that the Board authorized a 23 new $1.0 billion share buyback program, which does not have an expiration date. The following table summarizes the buyback activity by program and fiscal years ended May 31: (1) Shares of Cintas stock acquired for employee-partner payroll taxes due on options exercised and vested restricted stock awards. In the period subsequent to May 31, 2024, through July 25, 2024, under the July 26, 2022 share buyback plan, we purchased 0.7 million shares of Cintas common stock at an average price of $693.58 for a total purchase price of $473.6 million. From the inception of the July 26, 2022 share buyback program through July 25, 2024, Cintas has purchased 0.8 million shares of Cintas common stock in the aggregate, at an average price of $691.40 per share, for a total purchase price of $530.7 million. Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends: (1) The dividends declared on April 9, 2024 and April 11, 2023 were included in current accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets at May 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Any future dividend declarations, including the amount of any dividends, are at the discretion of the Board and dependent upon then-existing conditions, including the Company's consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that the Board may deem relevant. 24 During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2024, Cintas repurchased, and subsequently retired, $13.5 million of its 6.15%, 30-year senior notes. During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2023, Cintas paid $261.2 million, net of commercial paper. On April 17, 2023, in accordance with the terms of the notes, Cintas paid the $50.0 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of its 3.73%, private placement, 10-year senior notes that matured on that date with proceeds from short-term commercial paper issuance. The following table summarizes Cintas' outstanding debt at May 31: (1) Cintas assumed these senior notes with the acquisition of G&K Services, Inc. (G&K) in fiscal 2017, and they were recorded at fair value. The interest rate shown above is the effective interest rate until repayment in fiscal 2025. The credit agreement that supports our commercial paper program has capacity under the revolving credit facility of $2.0 billion. The credit agreement has an accordion feature that provides Cintas the ability to request increases to the borrowing commitments under the revolving credit facility of up to $500.0 million in the aggregate, subject to customary conditions. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility is March 23, 2027. As of both May 31, 2024 and 2023, there was no commercial paper outstanding and no borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Cintas' debt agreements contain certain covenants. These covenants limit our ability to incur certain liens and priority debt, to engage in sale-leaseback transactions and to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of Cintas' assets. These covenants also require Cintas to maintain certain debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and interest coverage ratios. Cross-default provisions exist between certain debt instruments. If a default of a significant covenant were to occur, the default could result in an acceleration of the maturity of the indebtedness, impair liquidity and limit the ability to raise future capital. Cintas was in compliance with all of the debt covenants for all periods presented. Our access to the commercial paper and long-term debt markets has historically provided us with sources of liquidity. We do not anticipate having difficulty in obtaining financing from those markets in the future based on our favorable experiences in the debt markets in the recent past. Additionally, our ability to continue to access the commercial paper and long-term debt markets on favorable interest rates and other terms will depend, to a significant degree, on the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness. As of May 31, 2024, our ratings were as follows: In the event that the ratings of our commercial paper or our outstanding long-term debt issues were substantially lowered or withdrawn for any reason, or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of long-term debt securities were significantly lower than those noted above, particularly if we no longer had investment grade ratings, our ability to access the debt markets may be adversely affected. In addition, in such a case, our cost of funds for new issues of 25 commercial paper and long-term debt would be higher than our cost of funds would have been had the ratings of those new issues been at or above the level of the ratings noted above. The rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies. To monitor our credit rating and our capacity for long-term financing, we consider various qualitative and quantitative factors. One such factor is the ratio of our total debt to EBITDA. For the purpose of this calculation, debt is defined as the sum of short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, long-term debt and standby letters of credit. Financial and Nonfinancial Disclosure About Issuers and Guarantors of Cintas’ Senior Notes Cintas Corporation No. 2 (Corp. 2) is the indirectly, wholly owned principal operating subsidiary of Cintas. Corp. 2 is the issuer of the $2,486.6 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding as of May 31, 2024, which are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by Cintas Corporation and its wholly owned, direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. See entitled Debt, Derivatives and Hedging Activities of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for more information on Cintas' outstanding debt. Basis of Preparation of the Summarized Financial Information The following tables include summarized financial information of Cintas Corporation (Issuer), Corp. 2 and subsidiary guarantors (together, the Obligor Group). Investments in and equity in the earnings of non-guarantors, which are not members of the Obligor Group, have been excluded. Non-guarantor subsidiaries are located outside the U.S., and therefore, excluded from the Obligor Group. The summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is presented on a combined basis with intercompany balances and transactions between entities in the Obligor Group eliminated. The Obligor Group’s amounts due from, amounts due to and transactions with non-guarantors have been presented in separate line items, if they are material. Summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is as follows as of and for the fiscal years ended May 31: 26 Contractual and Other Material Cash Obligations (1) See entitled Debt, Derivatives and Hedging Activities of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a detailed presentation of Cintas' debt. (2) See entitled Leases of "Notes to Consolidated financial Statements" for a detailed presentation of Cintas' operating leases. Cintas also makes payments to defined contribution plans and may make payments to defined benefit plans to satisfy minimum funding requirements. The amount of contributions made to the defined contribution plans are at the discretion of the Board. Future contributions to the defined contribution plans are expected to be $125.3 million in the next fiscal year, $269.6 million in the next two to three fiscal years and $297.3 million in the next four to five fiscal years. Future contributions to the defined benefit plans are expected to be $5.1 million in the next fiscal year, $4.7 million in the next two to three fiscal years and $4.7 million in the next four to five fiscal years. Other Commitments (1) Back-up facility for the commercial paper program (reference entitled Debt, Derivatives and Hedging Activities of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for further discussion). (2) These standby letters of credit and surety bonds support certain outstanding debt (reference entitled Debt, Derivatives and Hedging Activities of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"), self-insured workers' compensation and general liability insurance programs. Inflation and Changing Prices Changes in wages, benefits and energy costs have the potential to materially impact Cintas' consolidated results of operations. In fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, we experienced impacts from inflation, including, but not limited to, higher labor, fuel and transportation costs. Management has been able to mitigate these inflationary pressures through pricing and various efficiency initiatives. Management has mitigated these impacts such that net of the mitigation strategy and initiatives, inflation and changing prices have not had a material impact on Cintas' consolidated financial condition or a negative impact on the consolidated results of operations. Litigation and Other Contingencies Cintas is subject to legal proceedings, insurance receipts, legal settlements and claims arising from the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary course of business actions will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows of Cintas. Cintas is also party to additional litigation not considered in the ordinary course of business. See entitled Litigation and Other Contingencies of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for a detailed discussion of such additional litigation. 27 New Accounting Standards In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280), Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures (ASU 2023-07). ASU 2023-07 requires additional disclosures pertaining to significant expenses and other items of an entity’s reportable operating segments. ASU 2023-07 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2023 (fiscal 2025). Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2023-07 on the consolidated financial statements. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740), Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (ASU 2023-09), which expands disclosures in an entity’s income tax rate reconciliation table and regarding cash taxes paid both in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. ASU 2023-09 will be effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024 (fiscal 2026). The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2023-09 on the consolidated financial statements. There are no other accounting pronouncements recently issued or newly effective that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on Cintas' consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates These critical accounting policies should be read in conjunction with entitled Significant Accounting Policies of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements." The preparation of Cintas' consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments, specifically the insurance reserve, which have an effect on the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Significant changes in critical accounting policies or significant changes in estimates or assumptions, specifically related to the insurance reserve, could possibly have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition. Approximately 95% of the Company's revenue is derived from fees for route servicing of Uniform Rental and Facility Services, First Aid and Safety Services and Fire Protection Services customers, performed by a Cintas employee-partner, at the customer's location of business. Revenue from our route servicing customer contracts represent a single-performance obligation. The Company recognizes revenue over time as services are performed, based on the nature of services provided and contractual rates (output method) or at a point in time when the performance obligation under the terms of the contract with a customer are satisfied, at the customer's location of business. The Company's remaining revenue, primarily within the Uniform Direct Sales operating segment, and representing approximately 5% of the Company's total revenue, is recognized when the obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied. This generally occurs when the goods are transferred to the customer. Revenue recorded is presented net of sales and other taxes we collect on behalf of governmental authorities. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers are treated as fulfillment activities and are recorded in both revenue and cost of sales at the time control is transferred to the customer. Certain of our customer contracts include pricing terms and conditions that include components of variable consideration. The variable consideration is typically in the form of consideration paid to a customer based on performance metrics specified within the contract and is not material in any period presented. When determining if variable consideration should be constrained, the Company considers whether factors outside its control could result in a significant reversal of revenue. In making these assessments, the Company considers the likelihood and magnitude of a potential reversal. The Company's performance period generally corresponds with the monthly invoice period. No constraints on our revenue recognition were applied during the fiscal years ended May 31, 2024, 2023 or 2022. See entitled Revenue Recognition of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements". Uniforms and other rental items in service. Uniforms and other rental items in service are valued at cost less amortization, calculated using the straight-line method. Uniforms in service (other than cleanroom garments) are amortized over their useful lives, which range from 18 to 30 months. Other rental items, including shop towels, mats, mops, cleanroom garments, linens and restroom dispensers, are amortized over their useful lives, which range from 8 to 60 months. The amortization rates used are based on industry experience, Cintas' specific experience and wear tests performed by Cintas. These factors are critical to determining the amount of in service inventory and related cost of uniforms and facility services that are presented in the consolidated financial statements. 28 Goodwill. Goodwill, obtained through acquisitions of businesses, is valued at cost less any impairment. Cintas completes an annual impairment test that includes an assessment of qualitative factors, and quantitative, if necessary, including, but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance. We test for goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level. Cintas has identified four reporting units for purposes of evaluating goodwill impairment: Uniform Rental and Facility Services, First Aid and Safety Services and two reporting units within All Other. Based on the results of the annual impairment tests, Cintas was not required to recognize an impairment of goodwill for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2024, 2023 or 2022. Cintas will continue to perform impairment tests as of March 1 in future years and when indicators of impairment exist. Insurance reserve. The insurance reserve represents the estimated ultimate cost of all asserted and unasserted claims (incurred but not reported), primarily related to workers' compensation, auto liability and other general liability exposure through the consolidated balance sheet dates. Our incurred but not reported reserves are estimated through actuarial procedures, with the assistance of third-party actuarial specialists, of the insurance industry and by using industry assumptions, adjusted for specific expectations based on our claims history. Cintas records an increase or decrease in selling and administrative expenses related to development of prior claims, higher claims activity and other environmental factors in the period in which it becomes known. These changes in estimates may be material to the consolidated financial statements.