********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The statements in this section describe the most significant risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operation and the trading price of our debt or equity securities. Although the risks are organized by headings, and each risk is discussed separately, many are interrelated. In addition, this section sets forth statements which constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe harbor from civil litigation for forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may be identified by words such as “estimates,” “anticipates,” “predicts,” “projects,” “plans,” “expects,” “intends,” “target,” “forecast,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “should,” “may” and “will” or the negative versions thereof and similar words, terms and expressions and by the context in which they are used. Such statements are based upon current expectations of Cintas and speak only as of the date made. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized. These statements are subject to various risks, uncertainties, potentially inaccurate assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in or implied by this Annual Report. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, the possibility of greater than anticipated operating costs including energy and fuel costs; lower sales volumes; loss of customers due to outsourcing trends; the performance and costs of integration of acquisitions; fluctuations in costs of materials and labor including increased medical costs; costs and possible effects of union organizing activities; failure to comply with government regulations concerning employment discrimination, employee pay and benefits and employee health and safety; the effect on operations of exchange rate fluctuations, tariffs and other political, economic and regulatory risks; uncertainties regarding any existing or newly-discovered expenses and liabilities related to environmental compliance and remediation; the cost, results and ongoing assessment of internal controls for financial reporting; the effect of new accounting pronouncements; disruptions caused by the inaccessibility of computer systems data, including cybersecurity risks; the initiation or outcome of litigation, investigations or other proceedings; higher assumed sourcing or distribution costs of products; the disruption of operations from catastrophic or extraordinary events including viral pandemics such as the COVID-19 coronavirus; the amount and timing of repurchases of our common stock, if any; changes in federal and state tax and labor laws; and the reactions of competitors in terms of price and service. Cintas undertakes no obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements or to otherwise update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or to reflect events, circumstances or any other unanticipated developments arising after the date on which such statements are made, except otherwise as required by law. The risks and uncertainties described herein are not the only ones we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties presently not known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also harm our business. Investors should not interpret the disclosure of any risk factor to imply that the risk has not already materialized. Risks Relating to Business Strategy & Operations Negative global economic factors, including the COVID-19 pandemic, may adversely affect our financial performance. Negative economic conditions, in North America and our other markets, may adversely affect our financial performance. Higher levels of unemployment, inflation, tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could adversely affect the demand for Cintas’ products and services. Increases in labor costs, including the cost to provide employee-partner related healthcare benefits, minimum wages, labor shortages or shortages of skilled labor, regulations regarding the classification of employees and/or their eligibility for overtime wages, higher material costs for items such as fabrics and textiles, the inability to obtain insurance coverage at cost-effective rates, higher interest rates, inflation, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws and other economic factors could increase our costs of rental uniforms and facility services, cost of other services and selling and administrative expenses. As a result, these factors could adversely affect our sales and consolidated results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has created widespread disruption in the global economy and has had, and could continue to have, an adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial performance, as well as on the results of operations and financial performance of many of the customers and suppliers in industries that we serve and operate. The duration of the pandemic itself and the market and workplace disruptions it has caused, including disruptions imposed by federal, state and local actions, as well as the potential for new government 8 regulations, and the long-term effects on the economy and our customers are uncertain and as yet unknowable. These factors, as they become more certain, could adversely affect our workforce, sales and overall business. Furthermore, the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our consolidated results of operations and financial performance depends on many factors that are not within our control, including, but not limited to: governmental, business and individuals’ actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic; the impact of the pandemic and actions taken in response on global and regional economies; the availability of federal, state or local funding programs; general economic uncertainty in key financial markets and financial market volatility; global economic conditions and levels of economic growth; and the pace of recovery when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. We are unable to predict the extent to which the pandemic and related impacts will continue to adversely impact our business operations, financial performance, consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and the achievement of our strategic objectives. Increased competition could adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in highly competitive industries and compete with national, regional and local providers. Product, design, price, quality, service and convenience to the customer are the competitive elements in these industries. If existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices, Cintas may be required to lower prices, which would hurt its results of operations. Cintas' competitors also generally compete with Cintas for acquisition candidates, which can increase the price for acquisitions and reduce the number of available acquisition candidates. In addition, our customers and prospects may decide to perform certain services in-house instead of outsourcing these services to us. These competitive pressures could adversely affect our sales and consolidated results of operations. An inability to open new, cost effective operating facilities may adversely affect our expansion efforts. We plan to expand our presence in existing markets and enter new markets. The opening of new operating facilities is necessary to gain the capacity required for this expansion. Our ability to open new operating facilities depends on our ability to identify attractive locations, negotiate leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms, identify and obtain adequate utility and water sources and comply with environmental regulations, zoning laws and other similar factors. Any inability to effectively identify and manage these items may adversely affect our expansion efforts, and, consequently, adversely affect our financial performance. Risks associated with our acquisition practice could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Historically, a portion of our growth has come from acquisitions. We continue to evaluate opportunities for acquiring businesses that may supplement our internal growth. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to locate and purchase suitable acquisitions. In addition, the success of any acquisition, including the ability to realize anticipated cost synergies, depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired company. The process of integrating acquired businesses may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management's attention and our financial and other resources. If management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, we may not be able to realize anticipated cost synergies resulting from acquisitions and our business could suffer. Although we conduct due diligence investigations prior to each acquisition, there can be no assurance that we will discover or adequately protect against all material liabilities of an acquired business for which we may be responsible as a successor owner or operator. The failure to identify suitable acquisitions and successfully integrate these acquired businesses, or to discover liabilities associated with such businesses in the diligence process, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. We require all our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the U.S. Political and economic stability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial stability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. In addition, U.S. and foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, 9 trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other factors, including the potential negative impact of viral pandemics such as COVID-19 affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We rely extensively on computer systems, including third-party systems, to process transactions, maintain information and manage our businesses. Disruptions in the availability of computer systems due to implementation of a new system or otherwise, or privacy breaches involving computer systems, could impact our ability to service our customers and adversely affect our sales, consolidated results of operations and reputation and expose us to litigation risk. Our businesses rely on various computer systems, including third-party systems, to provide customer information, process customer transactions and provide other general information necessary to manage our businesses. We have an active disaster recovery plan in place that is frequently reviewed and tested. However, our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption due to power outages, computer or telecommunication failures, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes and usage errors by our employees. Although we believe that we have adopted appropriate measures to mitigate potential risks to our technology and our operations from these information technology-related and other potential disruptions, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of such disruptions, we could potentially be subject to production downtimes, operational delays and interruptions in our ability to provide products and services to our customers. Any disruption caused by the unavailability of our computer systems could adversely affect our sales, could require us to make a significant investment to fix or replace them and, therefore, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In addition, cyber-security attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. We have experienced cybersecurity incidents in the past, but none of these incidents, individually or in the aggregate, have had a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. If the network of security controls, policy enforcement mechanisms and monitoring systems to address these threats to our technology fails, or we are unable to successfully address security incidents, production downtimes, operational delays and interruptions in our ability to provide products and services to our customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected Company, customer, or employee information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, or other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks could result in financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability and damage to our reputation. We also rely on software applications, enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors for certain information technology services, including our SAP enterprise system, payroll data, risk management data and lease data. If these third-party vendors, as well as our suppliers and other vendors, experience service interruptions or damage, security breaches, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or other similar events or intrusions, our business and our consolidated results of operations may be adversely affected. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could adversely affect our business and stock price. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the consolidated financial statement preparation and presentation. While we continue to evaluate our internal controls, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm were to discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to be unable to produce reliable financial reports or prevent fraud. This may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 10 We may experience difficulties in attracting and retaining competent personnel in key positions. Failure to preserve positive labor relationships with our employees could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. We believe that a key component of our success is our corporate culture, which has been imparted by management throughout our corporate organization. Our corporate culture, along with our entire operation, depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain key employees. Competitive pressures within and outside our industry may make it more difficult and expensive for us to attract and retain key employees which could adversely affect our businesses. We believe we have positive labor relationships with our employees. However, factors such as difficulty to attract key employees, reduced employee engagement, third-party organizational efforts and increased employee turnover could adversely affect our labor relationships with our employees. A failure to preserve positive labor relationships with our employees and could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Unexpected events could negatively impact our operations and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at facilities, severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornadoes, war or terrorist activities, unplanned outages, viral pandemics such as COVID-19, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems or changes in laws and/or regulations impacting our businesses, could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. These events could result in customer disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems. In addition, negative publicity, whether warranted or not, impacting brand image perception could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Financial Risks Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business. Our outstanding indebtedness may have negative consequences on our business, such as requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividend increases, stock buybacks and other general corporate purposes, as well as increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. In addition, it may limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business or industry or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. Changes in the fuel and energy industry could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. The price of fuel and energy needed to run our vehicles and equipment is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for fuel and other energy related products, actions by energy producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries, regional production patterns, limits on refining capacities, natural disasters, environmental concerns and viral pandemics such as COVID-19. Increases in fuel and energy costs could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Canadian dollar. In fiscal years 2021, 2020 and 2019, revenue denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar represented less than 10% of our consolidated revenue. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenue and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies, particularly in the event of significant increases in foreign currency revenue, will impact our revenue and operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. This impact could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. 11 We may recognize impairment charges, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets and our long-lived assets for impairment when required by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP). These accounting principles require that we record an impairment charge if circumstances indicate that the asset carrying values exceed their estimated fair values. The estimated fair value of these assets is impacted by, but not limited to, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions in the locations in which we operate. Deterioration in these general economic conditions may result in: declining revenue, which can lead to excess capacity and declining operating cash flow; reductions in management's estimates for future revenue and operating cash flow growth; increases in borrowing rates and other deterioration in factors that impact our weighted average cost of capital; and deteriorating real estate values. If our assessment of goodwill, other intangible assets or long-lived assets indicates an impairment of the carrying value for which we recognize an impairment charge, this may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. The effects of credit market volatility and changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and consolidated results of operations. Our operating cash flows, combined with access to the credit markets, provide us with significant discretionary funding capacity. However, deterioration in the global credit markets may limit our ability to access credit markets, which could adversely affect our liquidity and/or increase our cost of borrowing. In addition, credit market deterioration and its actual or perceived effects on our results of operations and financial condition, along with deterioration in general economic conditions, may increase the likelihood that the major independent credit agencies will downgrade our credit ratings, which could increase our cost of borrowing. Increases in our cost of borrowing could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Legal and Regulatory Risks Failure to comply with federal and state regulations to which we are subject could result in penalties or costs that could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Our business is subject to complex and stringent state and federal regulations, including employment laws and regulations, minimum wage requirements, overtime requirements, working condition requirements, citizenship requirements, transportation and other laws and regulations. In particular, we are subject to the regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) and under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended (OSHA Act). We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with the USDOT regulations, the OSHA Act and other laws and regulations to which we are subject. Changes in laws, regulations and the related interpretations, including any laws or regulations that may be enacted by the current U.S. presidential administration and Congress, may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. The impact of new laws and regulations cannot be predicted. Compliance with new laws and regulations may increase our operating costs or require significant capital expenditures. Any failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in substantial fines by government authorities, payment of damages to private litigants, or possible revocation of our authority to conduct our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to service customers and our consolidated results of operations. We are subject to legal proceedings that may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We are subject to various litigation claims and legal proceeding arising from the ordinary course of our business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. Certain of these lawsuits or potential future lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability and expense material to our consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations could result in significant costs that adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Our operating locations are subject to environmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing discharges of pollutants to the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. The operation of our businesses entails risks under environmental laws and regulations. We could incur significant costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and claims by third parties for property damage and personal 12 injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under these laws and regulations. We are currently involved in a limited number of remedial investigations and actions at various locations. While based on information currently known to us, we believe that we maintain adequate reserves with respect to these matters, our liability could exceed forecasted amounts, and the imposition of additional clean-up obligations or the discovery of additional contamination at these or other sites could result in significant additional costs which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, potentially significant expenditures could be required to comply with environmental laws and regulations, including requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Under applicable environmental laws, an owner or operator of real estate may be required to pay the costs of removing or remediating hazardous materials located on or emanating from property, whether or not the owner or operator knew of or was responsible for the presence of such hazardous materials. While we regularly engage in environmental due diligence in connection with acquisitions, we can give no assurance that locations that have been acquired or leased have been operated in compliance with environmental laws and regulations during prior periods or that future uses or conditions will not make us liable under these laws or expose us to third-party actions, including tort suits. Increases in income tax rates, changes in income tax laws or unfavorable resolution of tax matters could adversely impact our financial results. Changes in tax laws or regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business, or other tax law implementations or interpretations, could increase our effective tax rate, restrict our ability to repatriate undistributed offshore earnings, or impose new restrictions, costs or prohibitions on our current practices and reduce our net income and adversely affect our cash flows. We are also subject to tax audits, including with respect to transfer pricing, in the U.S. and other jurisdictions and our tax positions may be challenged by tax authorities. Although we believe that our current tax provisions are reasonable and appropriate, there can be no assurance that these items will be settled for the amounts accrued, that additional tax exposures will not be identified in the future or that additional tax reserves will not be necessary for any such exposures. Any increase in the amount of taxation incurred as a result of challenges to our tax filing positions could result in a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Business Strategy Cintas helps more than one million businesses of all types and sizes, primarily in the U.S., as well as Canada and Latin America, get READY™ to open their doors with confidence every day by providing a wide range of products and services that enhance our customers’ image and help keep their facilities and employees clean, safe and looking their best. With products and services including uniforms, mats, mops, restroom supplies, first aid and safety products, fire extinguishers and testing, and safety training, Cintas helps customers get Ready for the Workday ® . Cintas is also the creator of the Total Clean Program ™ — a first-of-its-kind service that includes scheduled delivery of essential cleaning supplies, hygienically clean laundering, and sanitizing and disinfecting projects and services. We are North America's leading provider of corporate identity uniforms through rental and sales programs, as well as a significant provider of related business services, including entrance mats, restroom cleaning services and supplies, first aid and safety services and fire protection products and services. Cintas' principal objective is "to exceed customers' expectations in order to maximize the long-term value of Cintas for shareholders and working partners," and it provides the framework and focus for Cintas' business strategy. This strategy is to achieve revenue growth for all our products and services by increasing our penetration at existing customers and by broadening our customer base to include market segments to which we have not historically served. We will also continue to identify additional product and service opportunities for our current and future customers. To pursue the strategy of increasing penetration, we have a highly talented and diverse team of service professionals visiting our customers on a regular basis. This frequent contact with our customers enables us to develop close personal relationships. The combination of our distribution system and these strong customer relationships provides a platform from which we launch additional products and services. We pursue the strategy of broadening our customer base in several ways. Cintas has a national sales organization introducing all its products and services to prospects in all market segments. Our broad range of products and services allows our sales organization to consider any type of business a prospect. We also broaden our customer base through geographic expansion. Finally, we evaluate strategic acquisitions as opportunities arise. 17 Results of Operations This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations focuses on discussion of fiscal 2021 results compared to fiscal 2020 results. For discussion of fiscal 2020 results compared to fiscal 2019 results, see the "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on July 29, 2020. Cintas classifies its business into two reportable operating segments and places the remainder of its operating segments in an All Other category. Cintas’ two reportable operating segments are Uniform Rental and Facility Services and First Aid and Safety Services. The Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment consists of the rental and servicing of uniforms and other garments including flame resistant clothing, mats, mops and shop towels and other ancillary items. In addition to these rental items, restroom cleaning services and supplies and the sale of items from our catalogs to our customers on route are included within this reportable operating segment. The First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment consists of first aid and safety products and services. The remainder of Cintas’ business, which consists of the Fire Protection Services operating segment and the Uniform Direct Sale operating segment, is included in All Other. These operating segments consist of fire protection products and services and the direct sale of uniforms and related items. Cintas evaluates operating segment performance based on revenue and income before income taxes. Revenue and income before income taxes for each of these reportable operating segments for the years ended May 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 are presented in entitled Operating Segment Information of " ." The Company regularly reviews its operating segments for reporting purposes based on the information its chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance and makes changes when appropriate. In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was reported to have surfaced in Wuhan, China, and has since spread globally. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. Efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 intensified during our fiscal 2020 fourth quarter and have remained in effect throughout our fiscal 2021. Most states and municipalities within the U.S., as well as Canada, enacted temporary closures of businesses, issued quarantine orders and took other restrictive measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Many of the business closures, quarantine orders and other restrictive measures remained in place through fiscal 2021. Within the U.S., our business was designated an essential business, which allowed us to continue to serve customers that remained open. During our fiscal 2021 fourth quarter, the roll out of vaccines, lower COVID-19 case counts and lifting of restrictions on businesses had a positive impact on our business. We have operations throughout the U.S. and Canada and participate in a global supply chain. During most of fiscal 2021, the existence of the COVID-19 pandemic, the fear associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and the reactions of governments around the world in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to regulate the flow of labor and products and impede the business of our customers, impacted our ability to conduct normal business operations, which had an adverse effect on our business. Many of Cintas' customers were also impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and we saw an impact on some customer's ability to pay timely. While there was minimal disruption to our supply chain, Cintas did increase inventory, primarily personal protective equipment and facility services inventory, in response to the customer needs and demand associated with the safety and cleanliness requirements of COVID-19. The increase in inventory resulted in additional inventory reserves during fiscal 2021 and could result in future inventory reserve increases if demand for personal protective equipment declines. See entitled Significant Accounting Policies of " " for additional detail on the additional reserve placed on inventory. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is fluid and continues to evolve, and therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which our business, consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial condition or liquidity will ultimately be impacted. 18 The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of income data as a percent of revenue by reportable operating segment, All Other and in total for the fiscal years ended May 31: Fiscal 2021 Compared to Fiscal 2020 Fiscal 2021 total revenue was $7.1 billion, an increase of 0.4% over the prior fiscal year. Revenue increased organically by 0.2% as a result of increased sales volume. Organic growth adjusts for the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and workday differences. Total revenue was negatively impacted by a net 0.3% due to acquisitions and divestitures, positively impacted by 0.2% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and positively impacted by 0.3% due to one more workday in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. As previously discussed, government enactments of temporary and indefinite closures of certain businesses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic continued to impact our ability to access and service some of our customers impacted by these mandates during fiscal 2021. Due to the constantly changing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, uncertainty remains about the pace of the economic recovery and about its impact on future Cintas consolidated financial results. 19 Organic revenue by quarter for fiscal 2021 is as follows: Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue consists predominantly of revenue derived from the rental of corporate identity uniforms and other garments, including flame resistant clothing and the rental and/or sale of mats, mops, shop towels, restroom supplies and other rental services. Revenue from the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment increased 0.8% compared to fiscal 2020 due to an organic growth increase of 0.7%. Revenue growth was negatively impacted by a net 0.5% due to acquisitions and divestitures, positively impacted by 0.2% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and positively impacted by 0.4% due to one more workday in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. Revenue growth was a result of new business, the penetration of additional products and services into existing customers, partially offset by lost business. New business growth resulted from an increase in the productivity of sales representatives. Generally, sales productivity improvements are due to increased tenure and improved training, which produce a higher number of products and services sold. Other revenue, consisting of revenue from the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other, decreased 1.0% compared to fiscal 2020. Revenue improvement from increases in sales representative productivity and sales of personal protection equipment was more than offset by a decrease in sales related to customers in All Other as a result of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue declined organically by 1.9%. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.5% due to revenue growth derived through acquisitions in our First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and our Fire Protection operating segment, which is included in All Other, and by 0.4% due to one more workday in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. Cost of uniform rental and facility services decreased 2.3% compared to fiscal 2020. Cost of uniform rental and facility services consists primarily of production expenses, delivery expenses and the amortization of in service inventory, including uniforms, mats, shop towels and other ancillary items. The cost of uniform rental and facility services decreased compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to certain cost control measures such as reduced labor and supplies that were partially offset by increases in material cost, primarily related to personal protective equipment. Cost of other consists primarily of cost of goods sold (predominantly first aid and safety products, personal protective equipment, uniforms and fire protection products), delivery expenses and distribution expenses in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and All Other. Cost of other increased 2.8% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in the proportion of sales in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment of personal protective equipment, which typically have lower gross margins compared to other First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment products. Selling and administrative expenses decreased $141.9 million, to 27.1% as a percent of revenue, compared to 29.2% in fiscal 2020. The improvement as a percent of revenue was primarily due to efficiencies in labor and employee-partner related expenses as well as lower discretionary spending and a one-time benefit from the gain on the sale of certain operating assets. In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, Cintas initiated certain one-time activities to reduce operating costs and better align its workforce with the needs of its ongoing business and recorded $24.5 million in employee termination costs and $9.2 million in long-lived asset impairment costs. Net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) was $97.7 million in fiscal 2021 compared to $104.4 million in fiscal 2020. The decrease in net interest expense was primarily due to the decrease in total debt outstanding during fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. 20 Income before income taxes was $1,287.7 million, an increase of $229.5 million, or 21.7%, compared to fiscal 2020. The increase in income before income taxes was primarily due to both cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses decreasing in total and as a percent of revenue in fiscal 2021. Income before income taxes also benefited from a one-time net gain on the sale of certain operating assets. Cintas' effective tax rate on continuing operations was 13.7% for fiscal 2021 compared to 17.2% in fiscal 2020. The effective tax rate in both periods was impacted by certain discrete items, primarily the tax accounting impact for stock-based compensation. In addition, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 included a one-time tax benefit on the sale of certain operating assets. Net income from continuing operations for fiscal 2021 of $1,111.0 million was a 26.8% increase compared to fiscal 2020. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $10.24 was a 26.3% increase compared to fiscal 2020 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $8.11. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased primarily due to the increase in net income. Uniform Rental and Facility Services Reportable Operating Segment Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $46.1 million, or 0.8%, and the cost of uniform rental and facility services decreased $71.6 million, or 2.3%, due to the reasons previously discussed. The reportable operating segment's fiscal 2021 gross margin was 47.6% of revenue compared to 45.9% in fiscal 2020. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to certain cost control measures such as reduced labor and supplies that were partially offset by increases in material cost, including increases related to increased sales of personal protective equipment. Selling and administrative expenses for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment decreased $103.5 million in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. Selling and administrative expense as a percent of revenue for fiscal 2021 was 26.0% compared to 28.1% in fiscal 2020. The improvement in selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue was primarily due to efficiencies in labor and employee-partner related expenses as well as lower discretionary spending and a one-time benefit from the gain on the sale of certain operating assets, which was partially offset by a one-time asset impairment on certain long-lived assets. Also, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment initiated certain one-time activities to reduce operating costs and better align its workforce with the needs of its ongoing business . During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, the reportable operating segment recorded $20.2 million in employee termination costs and $9.2 million in long-lived asset impairment costs. Income before income taxes increased $221.3 million to $1,225.8 million for fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue at 21.5% increased 370 basis points from 17.8% in fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily due to the previously discussed improvement in gross margin and selling and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue. First Aid and Safety Services Reportable Operating Segment First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment revenue increased $75.7 million in fiscal 2021, a 10.7% increase compared to fiscal 2020. Revenue increased organically by 10.0% as a result of new business and sales productivity increases, penetration of additional products and services into existing customers and sales of personal protective equipment in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue growth was positively impacted by 0.2% due to acquisitions, by 0.1% due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by 0.4% due to one more workday in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020. Cost of sales for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment increased $82.0 million, or 22.2%, in fiscal 2021, primarily due to higher sales volume and change in sales mix. Gross margin for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment is defined as revenue less cost of goods, warehouse expenses, service expenses and training expenses. The gross margin as a percent of revenue was 42.4% for fiscal 2021 compared to 47.8% in fiscal 2020. The decrease was primarily a result of the increase in the proportion of sales related to personal protective equipment, as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Personal protective equipment typically has lower gross margins than other First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment products. 21 Selling and administrative expenses for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment increased by $19.4 million, or 8.4%, in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, but improved as a percent of revenue to 32.0% in fiscal 2021 compared to 32.7% in fiscal 2020. The improvement as a percent of revenue was primarily due to revenue growing at a faster pace than labor and employee-partner related expenses and lower discretionary spending. Income before income taxes for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment was $81.2 million in fiscal 2021, a decrease of $25.7 million, or 24.1%, compared to fiscal 2020. Income before income taxes as a percent of revenue at 10.4%, decreased from 15.1% in fiscal 2020 due to the previously discussed decrease in gross margin. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table summarizes our cash flows and cash and cash equivalents as of and for the fiscal years ended May 31: Cash and cash equivalents as of May 31, 2021 and 2020 include $37.9 million and $30.2 million, respectively, that is located outside of the U.S. Cash flows provided by operating activities have historically supplied us with a significant source of liquidity. We generally use these cash flows to fund most, if not all, of our operations and expansion activities and dividends on our common stock. We may also use cash flows provided by operating activities, as well as proceeds from long-term debt and short-term borrowings, to fund growth and expansion opportunities, as well as other cash requirements such as the repurchase of our common stock and payment of long-term debt. The disruption from the COVID-19 pandemic continued to have an impact on Cintas' fiscal 2021 financial results. However, net cash flow provided by operating activities was not significantly impacted. We expect our cash flows from operating activities to remain sufficient to provide us with adequate levels of short-term liquidity. In addition, we have access to $1.0 billion of short-term debt from our revolving credit facility. Although the  impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is fluid and continues to evolve, we believe our long-term liquidity position remains strong. We believe the Company has sufficient liquidity to operate in the current business environment. Acquisitions and dividends remain strategic objectives, but they will be dependent on the economic outlook and liquidity of the Company. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.36 billion for fiscal 2021, which was an increase of $69.3 million compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily the result of increased net income and favorable changes in accrued compensation and other, partially offset by changes in working capital, specifically income taxes, accounts receivable and accrued liabilities and other. Net cash used in investing activities was $137.2 million in fiscal 2021, compared to $285.4 million in fiscal 2020. Net cash used in investing activities includes capital expenditures, purchases of investments, proceeds from the sale of operating assets and cash paid for acquisitions of businesses. Capital expenditures were $143.5 million and $230.3 million for fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2021 included $104.0 million for the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment and $34.4 million for the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment. The decrease in capital expenditures from fiscal 2020 to fiscal 2021 was due to reduced growth capacity needs within the slower growth landscape of the COVID-19 pandemic. Cash paid for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, was $10.0 million and $53.7 million for fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. The acquisitions in both fiscal 2021 and 2020 occurred in our Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, our First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segment and our Fire Protection operating segment, which is included in All Other. In fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, investing activities included proceeds of $31.7 million and $13.3 million, respectively, from the sale of certain operating assets, net of 22 cash disposed. Net cash used in investing activities also included $4.3 million and $10.0 million of purchases of investments during fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. Net cash used in financing activities was $879.9 million for fiscal 2021, compared to $955.2 million in fiscal 2020. The decrease in cash used from financing activities from fiscal 2020 is primarily due to the payment of the $312.5 million of debt in fiscal 2020, partially offset by an increase in cash used to pay dividends and repurchase common stock in fiscal 2021. On October 30, 2018, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share buyback program, which was completed during fiscal 2021. On October 29, 2019, we announced the Board of Directors authorized a new $1.0 billion share buyback program, which does not have an expiration date. The following table summarizes the buyback activity by program and fiscal year ended May 31: In the period subsequent to May 31, 2021 through July 28, 2021, we completed the October 29, 2019 program by  purchasing 1.6 million shares of Cintas common stock at an average price of $365.41 for a total purchase price of $581.2 million. From the inception of the October 29, 2019 program through July 28, 2021, Cintas purchased a total of 2.8 million shares of Cintas common stock at an average price of $358.93 per share for a total purchase price of $1.0 billion. In addition, for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2021, Cintas acquired 0.2 million shares of Cintas common stock in satisfaction of employee payroll taxes due on restricted stock awards that vested during the fiscal year. These shares were acquired at an average price of $302.52 per share for a total purchase price of $74.4 million. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020, Cintas acquired 0.3 million shares of Cintas common stock in satisfaction of employee payroll taxes due on restricted awards that vested during the fiscal year. These shares were acquired at an average price of $260.89 per share for a total purchase price of $68.8 million. On October 27, 2020, Cintas declared an annual cash dividend on outstanding common stock, representing a 10.2% increase over the annual dividend paid in the prior fiscal year. This marked the 38 th consecutive year that Cintas has increased its annual dividend, every year since going public in 1983. Also on October 27, 2020, the Cintas Board of Directors approved a change in the dividend policy from an annual dividend to a quarterly dividend and subsequently declared a quarterly dividend on outstanding common stock. Any future dividend declarations, including the amount of any dividends, are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and dependent upon then-existing conditions, including the Company's consolidated operating results and consolidated financial condition, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant. Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the fiscal years ended May 31: .(1) The dividend declared on April 13, 2021 was included in current accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2021. 23 During the fiscal year ended May 31, 2020, Cintas paid a net total of $112.5 million on commercial paper borrowings and paid off the term loan balance of $200.0 million with cash on hand. There was no commercial paper outstanding during fiscal 2021. The following table summarizes Cintas' outstanding debt at May 31: (1) Cintas assumed these senior notes with the acquisition of G&K in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, and they were recorded at fair value. The interest rate shown above is the effective interest rate. The principal amount of these notes is $50.0 million with a stated interest rate of 3.73%. (2) Cintas assumed these senior notes with the acquisition of G&K in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, and they were recorded at fair value. The interest rate shown above is the effective interest rate. The principal amount of these notes is $50.0 million with a stated interest rate of 3.88%. The credit agreement that supports our commercial paper program was amended and restated on May 24, 2019. The amendment increased the capacity of the revolving credit facility from $600.0 million to $1.0 billion and created a new term loan of $200.0 million. The credit agreement has an accordion feature that provides Cintas the ability to request increases to the borrowing commitments under either the revolving credit facility or the term loan of up to $250.0 million in the aggregate, subject to customary conditions. The maturity date of the revolving credit facility is May 23, 2024. As of May 31, 2021 and 2020, there was no commercial paper outstanding and no borrowings on our credit facility. On June 1, 2021, in accordance with the terms of the notes, Cintas paid the $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.30%, 10-year senior notes that matured on that date with cash on hand. During fiscal 2022, Cintas expects to issue long-term debt to pay the $650.0 million principal amount of its 2.90%, 5-year senior notes that mature in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. Cintas has certain covenants related to debt agreements. These covenants limit Cintas' ability to incur certain liens, to engage in sale-leaseback transactions and to merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of Cintas' assets. These covenants also require Cintas to maintain certain debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and interest coverage ratios. Cross-default provisions exist between certain debt instruments. If a default of a significant covenant were to occur, the default could result in an acceleration of the maturity of the indebtedness, impair liquidity and limit the ability to raise future capital. Cintas was in compliance with all of the debt covenants for all periods presented. Our access to the commercial paper and long-term debt markets has historically provided us with sources of liquidity. We do not anticipate having difficulty in obtaining financing from those markets in the future in view of our favorable experiences in the debt markets in the recent past, including our ability to refinance the $650.0 million aggregate principal amount of our senior notes that mature in fiscal 2022. Additionally, our ability to continue to access the commercial paper and long-term debt markets on favorable interest rate and other terms will depend, to a significant degree, on the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness. 24 As of May 31, 2021, our ratings were as follows: In the event that the ratings of our commercial paper or our outstanding long-term debt issues were substantially lowered or withdrawn for any reason, or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of long-term debt securities were significantly lower than those noted above, particularly if we no longer had investment grade ratings, our ability to access the debt markets may be adversely affected. In addition, in such a case, our cost of funds for new issues of commercial paper and long-term debt would be higher than our cost of funds would have been had the ratings of those new issues been at or above the level of the ratings noted above. The rating agency ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our commercial paper or debt securities. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Moreover, each credit rating is specific to the security to which it applies. To monitor our credit rating and our capacity for long-term financing, we consider various qualitative and quantitative factors. One such factor is the ratio of our total debt to EBITDA. For the purpose of this calculation, debt is defined as the sum of short-term borrowings, long-term debt due within one year, long-term debt and standby letters of credit. Financial and Nonfinancial Disclosure About Issuers and Guarantors of Cintas’ Senior Notes Cintas Corporation No. 2 (Corp. 2) is the indirectly, wholly owned principal operating subsidiary of Cintas. Corp. 2 is the issuer of the $2,550.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding as of May 31, 2021, which are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, by Cintas Corporation and its wholly owned, direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. See entitled Debt and Derivatives of " " for more information on Cintas' outstanding debt. Basis of Preparation of the Summarized Financial Information The following tables include summarized financial information of Cintas Corporation (Issuer), Corp. 2 and subsidiary guarantors (together, the Obligor Group). Investments in and equity in the earnings of non-guarantors, which are not members of the Obligor Group, have been excluded. Non-guarantor subsidiaries are located outside the U.S., and therefore, excluded from the Obligor Group. The summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is presented on a combined basis with intercompany balances and transactions between entities in the Obligor Group eliminated. The Obligor Group’s amounts due from, amounts due to and transactions with non-guarantors have been presented in separate line items, if they are material. Summarized financial information of the Obligor Group is as follows for the fiscal years ended May 31: 25 Contractual Obligations (1) See entitled Debt and Derivatives of " " for a detailed presentation of Cintas' debt. (2) See entitled Leases of " " for a detailed presentation of Cintas' leases. Cintas also makes payments to defined contribution plans and may make payments to defined benefit plans to satisfy minimum funding requirements. The amount of contributions made to the defined contribution plans are at the discretion of the Board of Directors of Cintas. Future contributions to the defined contribution plans are expected to be $82.6 million in the next year, $177.9 million in the next two to three years and $196.1 million in the next four to five years. Future contributions to the defined benefit plans are expected to be $0.3 million in the next year, $3.0 million in the next two to three years and $3.0 million in the next four to five years. Other Commitments (1) Back-up facility for the commercial paper program (reference entitled Debt and Derivatives of " " for further discussion). (2) These standby letters of credit and surety bonds support certain outstanding debt (reference entitled Debt and Derivatives of " "), self-insured workers' compensation and general liability insurance programs. Inflation and Changing Prices Changes in wages, benefits and energy costs have the potential to materially impact Cintas' consolidated results of operations. Management believes inflation has not had a material impact on Cintas' consolidated financial condition or a negative impact on the consolidated results of operations. 26 Litigation and Other Contingencies Cintas is subject to legal proceedings, insurance receipts, legal settlements and claims arising from the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, with respect to such ordinary course of business actions will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows of Cintas. The Company, the Board of Directors, Scott Farmer (Executive Chairman) and the Investment Policy Committee are defendants in a purported class action, filed on December 13, 2019, pending in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Ohio alleging violations of ERISA. The lawsuit asserts that the defendants improperly managed the costs of the employee retirement plan, breached their fiduciary duties in failing to investigate and select lower cost alternative funds and failed to monitor and control the employee retirement plan’s recordkeeping costs. The defendants deny liability. New Accounting Standards In April 2019, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-13, “Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.” ASU 2016-13 replaces the incurred loss impairment methodology with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. In connection with recognizing credit losses on accounts receivable and other financial instruments, Cintas now uses a forward-looking expected loss model rather than the incurred loss model. Adoption of ASU 2016-13 requires using a modified retrospective approach through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the effective date to align existing credit loss methodology with the new standard. This standard was adopted by Cintas on June 1, 2020 and did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. No other new accounting pronouncement recently issued or newly effective had or is expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of Cintas' consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. These critical accounting policies should be read in conjunction with entitled Significant Accounting Policies of " ." Significant changes, estimates or assumptions related to any of the following critical accounting policies, including those impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, could possibly have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition Rental revenue, which is recorded in the Uniform Rental and Facility Services reportable operating segment, is recognized when services are performed or the obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied. Other revenue, which is recorded in the First Aid and Safety Services reportable operating segments and All Other, is recognized when either services are performed or the obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied. See entitled Revenue Recognition of the " " for more information on Cintas' revenue. Uniforms and other rental items in service Uniforms and other rental items in service are valued at cost less amortization, calculated using the straight-line method. Uniforms in service (other than cleanroom and flame resistant clothing) are amortized over their useful life of 18 months. Other rental items, including shop towels, mats, mops, cleanroom garments, flame resistant clothing, linens and restroom dispensers, are amortized over their useful lives, which range from 8 to 60 months. The amortization rates used are based on industry experience, Cintas' specific experience and wear tests performed by Cintas. These factors are critical to determining the amount of in service inventory and related cost of uniforms and ancillary products that are presented in the consolidated financial statements. 27 Goodwill Goodwill, obtained through acquisitions of businesses, is valued at cost less any impairment. Cintas completes an annual impairment test, that includes an assessment of qualitative factors including, but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, and entity specific factors such as strategies and financial performance. We test for goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level. Cintas has identified four reporting units for purposes of evaluating goodwill impairment: Uniform Rental and Facility Services, First Aid and Safety Services and two reporting units within All Other. Based on the results of the annual impairment tests, Cintas was not required to recognize an impairment of goodwill for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2021, 2020 or 2019. Cintas will continue to perform impairment tests as of March 1 in future years and when indicators of impairment exist. Insurance reserve The insurance reserve represents the estimated ultimate cost of all asserted and unasserted claims, primarily related to workers' compensation, auto liability and other general liability exposure through the consolidated balance sheet dates. Our incurred but not reported reserves are estimated through actuarial procedures, with the assistance of third-party actuarial specialists, of the insurance industry and by using industry assumptions, adjusted for specific expectations based on our claims history. Cintas records an increase or decrease in selling and administrative expenses related to development of prior claims, higher claims activity and other environmental factors in the period in which it becomes known. These changes in estimates may be material to the consolidated financial statements. Stock-based compensation Compensation expense is recognized for all share-based payments to employees, including stock options and restricted stock awards, in the consolidated statements of income based on the fair value of the awards that are granted. The fair value of stock options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Generally, measured compensation cost, net of actual forfeitures, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the related share-based compensation award. See entitled Stock-Based Compensation of " " for further information. Litigation and other contingencies Cintas is subject to legal proceedings and claims arising from the ordinary course of its business, including personal injury, customer contract, environmental and employment claims. U.S. GAAP requires that a liability for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has occurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required to determine the existence of a liability, as well as the amount to be recorded. While a significant change in assumptions and judgments could have a material impact on the amounts recorded for contingent liabilities, Cintas does not believe that they will result in a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements. Income taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined by the differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Therefore, the Company has not recorded deferred taxes for basis differences expected to reverse in future periods. Cintas accounts for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) as a current-period expense when incurred. See entitled Income Taxes of " " for the types of items that give rise to significant deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes are classified as assets or liabilities based on the classification of the related asset or liability for financial reporting purposes. Cintas regularly reviews deferred tax assets for recoverability based upon projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Although realization is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that the recorded deferred tax assets, as adjusted for valuation allowances, will be realized. Accounting for uncertain tax positions requires the determination of whether tax benefits claimed or expected to be claimed on a tax return should be recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Companies may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. 28 Cintas is periodically reviewed by domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These reviews include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various filing positions, Cintas records reserves as deemed appropriate. Based on Cintas' evaluation of current tax positions, Cintas believes its tax related accruals are appropriate.