********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We face various important risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and, as a result, cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock . Risks Related to our Business and Operations Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions globally and in particular in the markets in which our clients and operations are concentrated. Global macroeconomic conditions have a significant effect on our business as well as the businesses of our clients. Volatile, negative or uncertain economic conditions could cause our clients to reduce, postpone or cancel spending on projects with us and could make it more difficult for us to accurately forecast client demand and have available the right resources to profitably address such client demand. Clients may reduce demand for services quickly and with little warning, which may cause us to incur extra costs where we have employed more personnel than client demand supports. Our business is particularly susceptible to economic and political conditions in the markets where our clients or operations are concentrated. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients located in the United States and Europe, and any adverse economic, political or legal uncertainties or adverse developments, including due to the uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic, may cause clients in these geographies to reduce their spending and materially adversely impact our business. Many of our clients are in the financial services and healthcare industries, so any decrease in growth or significant consolidation in these industries or regulatory policies that restrict these industries may reduce demand for our services. Economic and political developments in India, where a significant majority of our operations and technical personnel are located, or in other countries where we maintain delivery operations, may also have a significant impact on our business and costs of operations. As a developing country, India has experienced and may continue to experience high inflation and wage growth, fluctuations in gross domestic product growth and volatility in currency exchange rates, any of which could materially adversely affect our cost of operations. Additionally, we benefit from governmental policies in countries that encourage foreign investment and promote the ease of doing business, such as tax incentives, and any change in policy or circumstances that results in the elimination of such benefits or degradation of the rule of law, or imposition of new adverse restrictions or costs on our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant and continuing adverse impact upon, and this or other pandemics may have a material adverse impact upon, our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has caused and continues to cause significant loss of life and interruption to the global economy and has resulted in the curtailment of activities by businesses and consumers in much of the world as governments and others seek to limit the spread of the disease, including through business and transportation shutdowns and restrictions on people’s movement and congregation. Among other things, many of our and our clients’ offices have been closed and employees have been working from home and many consumer-facing businesses have closed or are operating at a significantly reduced level to observe various social distancing requirements and government-mandated measures. The overall result has included a dramatic reduction in activity in the global economy and significant adverse impacts to the financial markets, including the trading price of our common stock in the past and potentially in the future. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant and continuing adverse impact upon, and this or other pandemics may have a material adverse impact upon, our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition, including as a result of the following: • Reduced client demand for services – The vast majority of our business is with clients in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe, all regions that have been hard hit by the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic at times reduced, and other future pandemics could reduce, demand for our services, particularly in regions that have been hit hard by the pandemic and from clients in the retail, consumer goods, travel and hospitality, and communications and media industries. Future client demand for services will depend on the course of the pandemic, including whether COVID-19 vaccines will be sufficiently effective against variant viruses of COVID-19, other factors such as measures taken by governments and businesses in affected areas that could negatively impact our clients and our business, and any economic disruption from new waves of pandemic infections. • Delivery challenges – Due to the closures of many of our clients' facilities, including as a result of various orders from national, state or local governments, we have faced and may continue to face, in the near term or in future pandemics, challenges in delivering services to our clients and satisfying contractually agreed upon service levels. The pandemic, particularly in India, but also in the Philippines and other countries where we have near-shore or offshore delivery operations for clients, as well as our in-country offices and offices of clients where our employees may normally work, has impacted and may continue to impact our ability to deliver services to clients. Our work-from-home arrangements for many of our employees may increase our exposure to security breaches or cyberattacks. A significant worsening of the pandemic, particularly in India, or a future security incident during the pandemic, could materially impair our ability to deliver services to clients to an extent that may have a material adverse impact to our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. • Increased costs – We could face increased costs in the future depending on developments relating to the pandemic, including as a result of the resurgence or persistence of the COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence of vaccine resistant strains of the virus. • Diversion of and strain on management and other corporate resources – Addressing the significant personal and business challenges presented by the pandemic, including various business continuity measures and the need to enable work-from-home arrangements for many of our employees, has demanded significant management time and attention and strained other corporate resources, and is expected to continue to do so. Among other things, this may adversely impact our client and associate development and our ability to execute our strategy and various transformation initiatives. • Reduced employee morale and productivity – The significant personal and business challenges presented by a pandemic, including the COVID-19 pandemic, such as the potentially life-threatening health risks to employees and their families and friends, the closures of schools and the unavailability of various services our employees may rely upon, such as childcare, have been and may be a cause of employee morale concerns and may adversely impact employee productivity. It is important for key groups of our employees to resume regular face-to-face collaboration, the absence of which can negatively impact client and employee engagement and development and our ability to execute our strategy, and these employees may be unable to do so due to ongoing concerns of infection. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. The ultimate extent to which the pandemic impacts our business, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the delivery, adoption and effectiveness of vaccines, future variants of the COVID-19 virus and any resulting impact on the effectiveness of vaccines, the availability of effective treatments for the disease, the duration and extent of the pandemic and waves of infection, travel restrictions and social distancing, the duration and extent of business closures and business disruptions and the effectiveness of actions taken to contain, treat and prevent the disease. If we or our clients experience prolonged shutdowns or other business disruptions, our business, liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and the trading price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected, and our ability to access the capital markets may be limited. If we are unable to attract, train and retain skilled employees to satisfy client demand, including highly skilled technical personnel and personnel with experience in key digital areas, as well as senior management to lead our business globally, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skilled employees, including project managers, IT engineers and senior technical personnel, in particular those with experience in key digital areas, in balance with client demand around the world and on our ability to attract and retain senior management with the knowledge and skills to lead our business globally. In 2021, we experienced unprecedented attrition, which was considered industry-wide. As a result, we hired over a hundred thousand new employees and needed to reskill, retain, integrate and motivate our workforce of over 300,000 employees with diverse skills and expertise in order to serve client demands across the globe, respond quickly to rapid and ongoing technological, industry and macroeconomic developments and grow and manage our business. While we believe the level of attrition in 2021 was unusual, we believe it will remain elevated through 2022 and possibly beyond, which could materially adversely affect our business. We also must continue to maintain an effective senior leadership team that, among other things, is effective in executing on our strategic goals and growing our digital business. The loss of senior executives, or the failure to attract, integrate and retain new senior executives as the needs of our business require, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Competition for skilled labor is intense and, in some jurisdictions and service areas in which we operate and, in particular, in key digital areas, there are more open positions than qualified persons to fill these positions. Our business has experienced and may continue to experi ence s ignificant employee attrition, which has caused us to incur increased costs to hire new employees with the desired skills. While we strive to adjust pricing to reduce the impact of compensation increases on our operating margin, we may not be successful in recovering these increases, which could adversely affect our profitability and operating margin. Costs associated with recruiting and training employees are significant. If we are unable to hire or deploy employees with the needed skillsets or if we are unable to adequately equip our employees with the skills needed, this could materially adversely affect our business. Additionally, if we are unable to maintain an employee environment that is competitive and appealing, it could have an adverse effect on engagement and retention, which may materially adversely affect our business. We face challenges related to growing our business organically as well as inorganically through acquisitions, and we may not be able to achieve our targeted growth rates. Achievement of our targeted growth rates requires continued significant organic growth of our business as well as inorganic growth through acquisitions. To achieve such growth, we must, among other things, continue to significantly expand our global operations, increase our product and service offerings, in particular with respect to digital, and scale our infrastructure to support such business growth. Continued business growth increases the complexity of our business and places significant strain on our management, employees, operations, systems, delivery, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions, which we will have to continue to develop and improve to sustain such growth. Our ability to successfully manage change associated with the various business transformation initiatives is critical for the overall strategy execution. We must continually recruit and train new employees, retain and reskill, as necessary, existing sales, technical, finance, marketing and management employees with the knowledge, skills and experience that our business model requires and effectively manage our employees worldwide to support our culture, values, strategies and goals. Additionally, we expect to continue pursuing strategic and targeted acquisitions and investments to enhance our offerings of services and solutions or to enable us to expand our talent, experience and capabilities in key digital areas or in particular geographies or industries. We may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities, completing targeted transactions or achieving the desired results, and such opportunities may divert our management's time and focus away from our core business. We may face challenges in effectively integrating acquired businesses into our ongoing operations and in assimilating and retaining employees of those businesses into our culture and organizational structure. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, complete acquisitions of the number, magnitude and nature we have targeted, or successfully integrate any acquired businesses into our operations, we may not be able to achieve our targeted growth rates or improve our market share, profitability or competitive position generally or in specific markets or services. We may not be able to achieve our profitability goals and maintain our capital return strategy. Our goals for profitability and capital return rely upon a number of assumptions, including our ability to improve the efficiency of our operations and make successful investments to grow and further develop our business. Our profitability depends on the efficiency with which we run our operations and the cost of our operations, especially the compensation and benefits costs of our employees. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, substantial costs related to implementing our strategy to optimize such costs, and we may not realize the ultimate cost savings that we expect. We may not be able to efficiently utilize our employees if increased regulation, policy changes or administrative burdens of immigration, work visas or client worksite placement prevents us from deploying our employees on a timely basis, or at all, to fulfill the needs of our clients. Increases in wages and other costs, including as a result of attrition, may put pressure on our profitability. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can also have adverse effects on our revenues, income from operations and net income when items denominated in other currencies are translated or remeasured into U.S. dollars for presentation of our consolidated financial statements. We have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts intended to partially offset the impact of the movement of the exchange rates on future operating costs and to mitigate foreign currency risk on foreign currency denominated net monetary assets. However, the hedging strategies that we have implemented, or may in the future implement, to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risks may not reduce or completely offset our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and may expose our business to unexpected market, operational and counterparty credit risks. We are particularly susceptible to wage and cost pressures in India and the exchange rate of the Indian rupee relative to the currencies of our client contracts due to the fact that the substantial majority of our employees are in India while our contracts with clients are typically in the local currency of the country where our clients are located. If we are unable to improve the efficiency of our operations, our operating margin may decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Failure to achieve our profitability goals could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to capital return, our ability and decisions to pay dividends and repurchase shares depend on a variety of factors, including the cash flow generated from operations, our cash and investment balances, our net income, our overall liquidity position, potential alternative uses of cash, such as acquisitions, and anticipated future economic conditions and financial results. Failure to carry out our capital return strategy may adversely impact our reputation with shareholders and shareholders’ perception of our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our failure to meet specified service levels or milestones required by certain of our client contracts may result in our client contracts being less profitable, potential liability for penalties or damages or reputational harm. Many of our client contracts include clauses that tie our compensation to the achievement of agreed-upon performance standards or milestones. Failure to satisfy these requirements could significantly reduce our fees under the contracts, increase the cost to us of meeting performance standards or milestones, delay expected payments, subject us to potential damage claims under the contract terms or harm our reputation. The use of new technologies in our offerings can expose us to additional risks if those technologies fail to work as predicted, which could lead to cost overruns, project delays, financial penalties, or damage to our reputation. Clients also often have the right to terminate a contract and pursue damages claims for serious or repeated failure to meet these service commitments. Some of our contracts provide that a portion of our compensation depends on performance measures such as cost-savings, revenue enhancement, benefits produced, business goals attained and adherence to schedule. These goals can be complex and may depend on our clients’ actual levels of business activity or may be based on assumptions that are later determined not to be achievable or accurate. As such, these provisions may increase the variability in revenues and margins earned on those contracts and have in the past resulted, and could in the future, result in significant losses on such contracts. We face intense and evolving competition and significant technological advances that our service offerings must keep pace with in the rapidly changing markets we compete in. The markets we serve and operate in are highly competitive, subject to rapid change and characterized by a large number of participants, as described in “ -Competition.” In addition to large, global competitors, we face competition in many geographic markets from numerous smaller, local competitors that may have more experience with operations in these markets, have well-established relationships with our desired clients, or be able to provide services and solutions at lower costs or on terms more attractive to clients than we can. Consolidation activity may also result in new competitors with greater scale, a broader footprint or vertical integration that makes them more attractive to clients as a single provider of integrated products and services. In addition, concurrent use by many clients of multiple professional service providers means that we are required to be continually competitive on the quality, scope and pricing of our offerings or face a reduction or elimination of our business. If we are not able to successfully apply market level pricing and manage discounts, we may face downward pressure on gross margins and profitability. Our success depends on our ability to continue to develop and implement services and solutions that anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology to serve the evolving needs of our clients. Examples of areas of significant change include digital-, cloud- and security-related offerings, which are continually evolving, as well as developments in areas such as AI, augmented reality, automation, blockchain, IoT, quantum computing and as-a-service solutions. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technologies, successfully adapt to industry developments and changing demand, and evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale to keep pace with the demands of the markets we serve, we may be unable to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and execute on our growth strategy, which would materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our relationships with our third party alliance partners, who supply us with necessary components to the services and solutions we offer our clients, are also critical to our ability to provide many of our services and solutions that address client demands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain such relationships or that such components will be available on the expected timelines or for anticipated prices. Among other things, such alliance partners may in the future decide to compete with us, form exclusive or more favorable arrangements with our competitors or otherwise reduce our access to their products impairing our ability to provide the services and solutions demanded by clients. We face legal, reputational and financial risks if we fail to protect client and/or Cognizant data from security breaches and/or cyberattacks. In order to provide our services and solutions, we depend on global information technology networks and systems, to process, transmit, host and securely store electronic information (including our confidential information and the confidential information of our clients) and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients, suppliers and alliance partners (including numerous cloud service providers). Security breaches, employee malfeasance, or human or technological error create risks of shutdowns or disruptions of our operations and potential unauthorized access and/or disclosure of our or our clients’ sensitive data, which in turn could jeopardize projects that are critical to our operations or the operations of our clients’ businesses and have other adverse impacts on our business or the business of our clients. Like other global companies, we and our clients, suppliers, alliance partners (including numerous cloud service providers) and other vendors we interact with face threats to data and systems, including by nation state threat actors, insider threats, perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyberattacks, computer viruses, malware, worms, bot attacks or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate client information and cause system failures and disruptions. For example, in April 2020, we announced a security incident involving a Maze ransomware attack. The attack resulted in unauthorized access to certain data and caused significant disruption to our business. A security compromise of our information systems, or of those of businesses with which we interact, that results in confidential information being accessed by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, client attrition due to reputational concerns or otherwise, containment and remediation expenses, and claims brought by our clients or others for breaching contractual confidentiality and security provisions or data protection laws. Monetary damages imposed on us could be significant and may impose costs in excess of insurance policy limits or not be covered by our insurance at all. Techniques used by bad actors to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems continuously evolve and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of our information systems, diverting resources from other projects and disrupting our businesses. Any remediation measures that we have taken or that we may undertake in the future in response to the security incident announced in April 2020 or other security threats may be insufficient to prevent future attacks. We are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data security and privacy regulations in the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union and in other jurisdictions in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data. These laws can include stringent compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data as well as potential for significant financial penalties for noncompliance. The Court of Justice of the European Union decision in the Schrems II ruling in July 2020 on data transfer requirements has caused significant uncertainty for businesses transferring data outside of the European Union, which will likely result in continuing compliance and remediation costs. In the United States, federal sectoral laws, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and recently enacted state legislation, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, and its successor the California Privacy Rights Act that will go into effect on January 1, 2023, impose or will impose extensive privacy requirements on organizations that handle personal data. Proposals for federal privacy legislation continue and other new state privacy sectoral laws such as Virginia and Colorado are on the horizon. Additionally, in India, the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 continues to make progress through the Indian Parliament. If enacted in its current form it would impose stringent obligations on the handling of personal data, including certain localization requirements for sensitive data. Penalties align with those in other regimes with proposed fines of up to 4% of annual turnover, as defined in the bill. Other countries have enacted or are considering enacting data localization laws that require certain data to stay within their borders. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies or our clients pursuant to our contractual obligations relating to our compliance with these regulations. Complying with changing regulatory requirements requires us to incur substantial costs, exposes us to potential regulatory action or litigation, and may require changes to our business practices in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business operations and operating results. If our risk management, business continuity and disaster recovery plans are not effective and our global delivery capabilities are impacted, our business and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and we may suffer harm to our reputation. Our business model is dependent on our global delivery capabilities, which include coordination between our delivery centers in India, our other global and regional delivery centers, the offices of our clients and our associates worldwide. System failures, outages and operational disruptions may be caused by factors outside of our control, such as hostilities, political unrest, terrorist attacks, natural disasters (including events that may be caused or exacerbated by climate change), and public health emergencies and pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, affecting the geographies where our people, equipment and clients are located. For example, we have substantial global delivery operations in Chennai, India, a city that has experienced severe rains and flooding as a result of climate change. Our risk management, business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective at predicting or mitigating the effects of such disruptions, particularly in the case of catastrophic events or longer term, increasingly severe developments that occur as a result of climate change. Any such disruption may result in lost revenues, a loss of clients and reputational damage, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our employees in the United States, United Kingdom, European Union and other jurisdictions rely on visas to work in those areas such that any restrictions on such visas or immigration more generally or increased costs of obtaining such visas or increases in the wages we are required to pay employees on visas may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in these jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our employees in the United States and in many other jurisdictions, including countries in Europe, rely upon temporary work authorization or work permits, which makes our business particularly vulnerable to changes and variations in immigration laws and regulations, including written changes and policy changes to the manner in which the laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, and potential enforcement actions and penalties that might cause us to lose access to such visas. The political environment in the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries in recent years has included significant support for anti-immigrant legislation and administrative changes. Many of these recent changes have resulted in, and various proposed changes may result in, increased difficulty in obtaining timely visas that could impact our ability to staff projects, including as a result of visa application rejections and delays in processing applications, and significantly increased costs for us in obtaining visas or as a result of prevailing wage requirements for our employees on visas. For example, in the United States, the prior presidential administration adopted a number of policy changes and executive orders designed to limit immigration and the ability of immigrants to be employed, including increased scrutiny of the issuance of new and the renewal of existing H-1B visa applications and the placement of H-1B visa workers on third party worksites, i ncreases to the prevailing wage requirements that set a minimum level of compensation for visa holders and, for entities where 15% or more of the workers in the United States hold H-1B and L-1 visas, increases in the visa costs for such entities. While a number of these policy changes and executive orders failed to be enforced or enacted into law, the current administration has continued to explore visa and immigration reform. There continues to be political support for potential new laws and regulations relating to visas or immigration and the implementation of these or similar measures in the future may have a material adverse impact on companies like ours that have a substantial percentage of our employees on visas. Our principal operating subsidiary in the United States utilizes a high number of skilled workers holding H-1B and L-1 visas and, as a result, may be subject to increased costs if any such laws, regulations, policy changes or executive orders go into effect. In the EU, many countries continue to implement new regulations to move into compliance with the EU Directive of 2014 to harmonize immigration rules for intracompany transferees in most EU member states and to facilitate the transfer of managers, specialists and graduate trainees both into and within the region. The changes have had significant impact on mobility programs and have led to new notification and documentation requirements for companies sending employees to EU countries. Recent changes or any additional adverse revisions to immigration laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate may cause us delays, staffing shortages, additional costs or an inability to bid for or fulfill projects for clients, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legal, Regulatory and Legislative Risks Anti-outsourcing legislation, if adopted, and negative perceptions associated with offshore outsourcing could impair our ability to serve our clients and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The practice of outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a topic of political discussion in the United States, which is our largest market, as well as other regions in which we have clients. For example, measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by U.S. companies have been put forward for consideration by the U.S. Congress and in state legislatures to address concerns over the perceived association between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs domestically. If any such measure is enacted, our ability to provide services to our clients could be impaired. In addition, from time to time there has been publicity about purported negative experiences associated with offshore outsourcing, such as alleged domestic job loss and theft and misappropriation of sensitive client data, particularly involving service providers in India. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform certain services themselves or may be discouraged from utilizing global service delivery providers like us due to negative perceptions that may be associated with using global service delivery models or firms. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends toward global service delivery would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide the majority of their services from within the country in which our clients operate. We are subject to numerous and evolving legal and regulatory requirements and client expectations in the many jurisdictions in which we operate, and violations of, unfavorable changes in or an inability to meet such requirements or expectations could harm our business. We provide services to clients and have operations in many parts of the world and in a wide variety of different industries, subjecting us to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, laws and regulations on matters as diverse as trade controls and sanctions, immigration (including temporary work authorizations or work permits), content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, antitrust laws, anti-corruption laws (including the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act), the environment, government affairs, internal and disclosure control obligations, data privacy, intellectual property, employment and labor relations. We face significant regulatory compliance costs and risks as a result of the size and breadth of our business. For example, we may experience increased costs in 2022 and future years for employment and post-employment benefits in India as a result of the issuance of the Code in late 2020. In addition, we may face costs and risks associated with uncertainty as to the ongoing regulatory impact of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union. We are also subject to a wide range of potential enforcement actions, audits or investigations regarding our compliance with these laws or regulations in the conduct of our business, and any finding of a violation could subject us to a wide range of civil or criminal penalties, including fines, debarment, or suspension or disqualification from government contracting, prohibitions or restrictions on doing business, loss of clients and business, legal claims by clients and damage to our reputation. We commit significant financial and managerial resources to comply with our internal control over financial reporting requirements, but we have in the past identified and may in the future identify material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that cause us to incur incremental remediation costs in order to maintain adequate controls. For example, in recent years we had to spend significant resources on conducting an internal investigation and cooperating with investigations by the DOJ and the SEC, both concluded in 2019, focused on whether certain payments relating to Company-owned facilities in India were made in violation of the FCPA and other applicable laws. Governmental bodies, investors, clients and businesses are increasingly focused on ESG issues, which has resulted and may in the future continue to result in the adoption of new laws and regulations, reporting requirements and changing buying practices. If we fail to comply with new laws, regulations or reporting requirements or keep pace with ESG trends and developments or fail to meet the expectations of our clients and investors, our reputation and business could be adversely impacted. Changes in tax laws or in their interpretation or enforcement, failure by us to adapt our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements to enhance our global tax profile or adverse outcomes of tax audits, investigations or proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate, results of operations and financial condition. The interpretation of tax laws and regulations in the many jurisdictions in which we operate and the related tax accounting principles are complex and require considerable judgment to determine our income taxes and other tax liabilities worldwide. Tax laws and regulations affecting us and our clients, including applicable tax rates, and the interpretation and enforcement of such laws and regulations are subject to change as a result of economic, political and other factors, and any such changes or changes in tax accounting principles could increase our effective worldwide income tax rate and have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial condition. We routinely review and update our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements, including transfer pricing policies, consistent with applicable laws and regulations, to align with our evolving business operations and enhance our global tax profile across the numerous jurisdictions, such as the United States, India and the United Kingdom, in which we operate. Failure to successfully adapt our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements to align with our evolving business operations and enhance our global tax profile may increase our worldwide effective tax rate and have a material adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. The following are several examples of changes in tax laws that may impact us: • The Tax Reform Act was enacted in December 2017 and made a number of significant changes to the corporate tax regime in the United States. We anticipate that the U.S. Treasury department will continue to issue interpretive guidance which may modify relevant aspects of the tax regime. The U.S. federal government is also considering further tax reform that could increase corporate tax rates. • The OECD has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project and is expected to continue to issue guidelines and proposals that may change numerous long-standing tax principles. The changes recommended by the OECD have been or are being adopted by many of the countries in which we do business and could lead to disagreements among jurisdictions over the proper allocation of profits among them. The OECD has also undertaken a new project focused on “Addressing the Tax Challenges of the Digitalization of the Economy.” This project has proposed implementing a global model for minimum taxation, which may impact multinational businesses. Similarly, the European Commission and various jurisdictions have introduced proposals to or passed laws that impose a separate tax on specified digital services. These recent and potential future tax law changes create uncertainty and may materially adversely impact our provision for income taxes. Our worldwide effective income tax rate may increase as a result of these recent developments, changes in interpretations and assumptions made, additional guidance that may be issued and ongoing and future actions the Company has or may take with respect to our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. Additionally, we are subject from time to time to tax audits, investigations and proceedings. Tax authorities have disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with our judgments, and are taking increasingly aggressive positions, including with respect to our intercompany transactions. For example, we are currently involved in an ongoing dispute with the ITD in which the ITD asserts that we owe additional taxes for two transactions by which CTS India repurchased shares from its shareholders, as more fully described in to the consolidated financial statements. Adverse outcomes in any such audits, investigations or proceedings could increase our tax exposure and cause us to incur increased expense, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business subjects us to considerable potential exposure to litigation and legal claims and could be materially adversely affected if we incur legal liability. We are subject to, and may become a party to, a variety of litigation or other claims and suits that arise from time to time in the conduct of our business. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation involving current and former employees, clients, alliance partners, subcontractors, suppliers, competitors, shareholders, government agencies or others through private actions, class actions, whistleblower claims, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. While we maintain insurance for certain potential liabilities, such insurance does not cover all types and amounts of potential liabilities and is subject to various exclusions as well as caps on amounts recoverable. Our client engagements expose us to significant potential legal liability and litigation expense if we fail to meet our contractual obligations or otherwise breach obligations to third parties or if our subcontractors breach or dispute the terms of our agreements with them and impede our ability to meet our obligations to our clients. For example, third parties could claim that we or our clients, whom we typically contractually agree to indemnify with respect to the services and solutions we provide, infringe upon their IP rights. Any such claims of IP infringement could harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs in defending ourselves, expose us to considerable legal liability or prevent us from offering some services or solutions in the future. We may have to engage in legal action to protect our own IP rights, and enforcing our rights may require considerable time, money and oversight, and existing laws in the various countries in which we provide services or solutions may offer only limited protection. We also face considerable potential legal liability from a variety of other sources. Our acquisition activities have in the past and may in the future be subject to litigation or other claims, including claims from employees, clients, stockholders, or other third parties. We have also been the subject of a number of putative securities class action complaints and putative shareholder derivative complaints relating to the matters that were the subject of our now concluded internal investigation into potential violations of the FCPA and other applicable laws, and may be subject to such legal actions for these or other matters in the future. See " " for more information. We establish reserves for these and other matters when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated; however, the estimation of legal reserves and possible losses involves significant judgment and may not reflect the full range of uncertainties and unpredictable outcomes inherent in litigation, and the actual losses arising from particular matters may exceed our estimates and materially adversely affect our results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Cognizant is one of the world’s leading professional services companies, engineering modern business for the digital era. Our services include digital services and solutions, consulting, application development, systems integration, application testing, application maintenance, infrastructure services and business process services. Digital services have become an increasingly important part of our portfolio, aligning with our clients' focus on becoming data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. We are continuing to invest in digital services with a focus on four key areas: IoT, digital engineering, data and cloud. We tailor our services and solutions to specific industries with an integrated global delivery model that employs client service and delivery teams based at client locations and dedicated global and regional delivery centers. We help clients modernize technology, reimagine processes and transform experiences so they can stay ahead in a fast-changing world. 2021 Financial Results GAAP Adjusted GAAP Adjusted GAAP Adjusted During the year ended December 31, 2021, revenues increased by $1,855 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, representing growth of 11.1%, or 10.0% on a constant currency basis 1 . Our recently completed acquisitions contributed 320 basis points to our revenue growth. Revenue growth also reflected our clients' continued adoption and integration of digital technologies and was aided by the negative impact on 2020 revenues of the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue growth in the Healthcare segment was driven by increased demand for our services from our pharmaceutical clients while continued adoption and integration of digital technologies across o ur manufacturing, logistics, energy and utilities clients drove revenue growth in the Products and Resources segment. Revenues in the Communications, Media and Technology segment benefited from our technology clients' growing demand for services related to digital content. Our 2020 revenue was negatively affected by the Samlink Impact, which contributed approximately 70 basis points to our 2021 revenue growth. W e continue to experience pricing pressure on our non-digital services as our clients, particularly those in the Financial Services segment, optimize the cost of supporting their legacy systems and operations. Our operating margin and Adjusted Operating Margin 1 increased to 15.3% and 15.4%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2021 from 12.7% and 14.4%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our 2021 GAAP and Adjusted Operating Margins benefited from savings generated by the implementation of the delivery cost optimization initiatives of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan and a decrease in travel and entertainment costs. These benefits were partially offset by investments intended to drive and support organic revenue growth, including additions to our sales organization and initiatives to reposition our brand, as well as the negative impact on margin of our recently completed acquisitions, increased subcontractor and compensation costs as a result of significantly elevated attrition and costs related to the modernization of our 1 Adjusted Income From Operations, Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted Diluted EPS and constant currency revenue growth are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. core IT systems. Our 2020 operating margins were adversely impacted by the decline in revenues brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Samlink Impact and the April 2020 ransomware attack. Our 2020 GAAP operating margin was also negatively impacted by costs related to our restructuring program that concluded at the end of 2020 and COVID-19 Charges. During the fourth quarter of 2021, we reached a settlement agreement with the final customer involved in our previously disclosed proposed exit from a large customer engagement of our Samlink subsidiary and additionally entered into an agreement to sell this subsidiary. We reached settlement agreements with the other two customers to this engagement in the second quarter of 2021. The financial terms of the final settlement agreements with the three customers did not materially differ from our original 2020 offer and, accordingly, the impact to our 2021 consolidated statement of operations was immaterial. In 2020, in connection with our settlement offer, we recorded a reduction of revenues of $118 million and additional expenses of $33 million, or, jointly, the Samlink Impact. Th is negatively impacted both our 2020 GAAP and Adjusted Diluted EPS 2 by $0.27. The sale of our Samlink subsidiary closed on February 1, 20 22. In 2021, our Samlink subsidiary had $113 million in revenues. In the third quarter of 2021, the parties to the consolidated putative securities class action suit filed a settlement agreement that resolved the consolidated putative securities class action against us and certain of our former officers. As a result, we recorded a $20 million Class Action Settlement Loss in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in our consolidated financial statements. The loss is excluded from Adjusted Operating Margin 2 and Adjusted Diluted EPS 2 . For further information see to our consolidated financial statements. Business Outlook As we seek to increase our commercial momentum and accelerate growth, our four strategic priorities are: • Accelerating digital - growing our digital business organically and inorganically; • Globalizing Cognizant - accelerating the growth of our business in key international markets and diversifying our leadership, capabilities and delivery footprint; • Repositioning our brand - improving our global brand recognition and becoming better known as a global digital partner to the entire C-suite; and • Increasing our relevance to our clients - leading with thought leadership and capabilities to address clients' business needs. We continue to expect the long-term focus of our clients to be on their digital transformation into software-driven, data-enabled, customer-centric and differentiated businesses. The COVID-19 pandemic accelerated our clients' need to modernize their business, which has led to increased demand for digital capabilities . In 2021, we completed seven acquisitions intended to expand our talent, experience and capabilities in key digital areas or in particular geographies or industries. As our clients seek to optimize the cost of supporting their legacy systems and operations, our non-digital services have been and may continue to be subject to pricing pressure. In addition, our clients will likely continue to contend with industry-specific changes driven by evolving digital technologies, uncertainty in the regulatory environment, industry consolidation and convergence as well as international trade policies and other macroeconomic factors, which could affect their demand for our services. As a global professional services company, we compete on the basis of the knowledge, experience, insights, skills and talent of our employees and the value they can provide to our clients. Our success is dependent, in large part, on our ability to keep our supply of skilled employees, in particular those with experience in key digital areas, in balance with client demand. Competition for skilled employees in the current labor market is intense, and we experienced significantly elevated voluntary attrition during 2021. For the three months ended December 31, 2021, our annualized attrition rate, including both voluntary and involuntary, was 34.6% as compared to 19.0% for the three months ended December 31, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our attrition rate, including both voluntary and involuntary, was 30.8% as compared to 20.6% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Challenges attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel have negatively impacted our ability to satisfy client demand and achieve our full revenue potential. We expect this impact to continue in 2022. Fu rther, our ongoing and anticipated future efforts with respect to recruitment, talent management and employee engagement may not be successful and may result in increased delivery costs during 2022. Our most significant costs are the salaries and related benefits for our employees. In certain regions, competition for employees with the advanced technical skills necessary to perform our services has caused wages to increase at a rate greater than the general rate of inflation. While we strive to adjust pricing to reduce the 2 Adjusted Operating Margin and Adjusted Diluted EPS are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. impact of compensation increases on our operating margin, we may not be successful in fully recovering these increases, which could adversely affect our profitability and operating margin. Our future results may be affected by potential tax law changes and other potential regulatory changes, including possible U.S. corporate income tax reform and potentially increased costs for employment and post-employment benefits in India as a result of the Code on Social Security, 2020. For additional information, see Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance We believe environmental and social considerations are increasingly important to our clients and the talent we seek to attract and retain. As a company committed to improving everyday life, ESG is an important part of our business and that of our clients. Cognizant’s vision is to become the preeminent tec hnology services provider to the leaders of the world’s Global 2000 companies. Our ESG program is designed to support that vision and aligns with our clients’ increasing focus on ESG. In 2021, we took the following steps to advance our ESG agenda: • In February 2021, we announced an initiative to advance economic mobility, educational opportunity, diversity, equity, and inclusion, and health and well‑being in communities around the world through new philanthropic funding and in-kind contributions; • In April 2021, as the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic gripped India, we launched Operation C3. This initiative facilitated vaccination for our Indian employees and their dependents, and set up vaccination drives across the country to help senior citizens, physically challenged dependents, and mothers with infants. Operation C3 also provided critical medical equipment to hospitals, helped to boost oxygen supplies and more; • In June 2021, we issued our first ESG report with assured greenhouse gas emissions data; • In October 2021, we announced our commitment to achieve net zero emissions by 2030. This pledge calls for reducing emissions by 50% from the Company's global operations and supply chain by 2030, and by 90% by 2040; and • In October 2021, we launched “All Belong,” an initiative led by our executive committee and global D&I team designed to strengthen employee engagement, showcase our affinity groups, and recognize employees who exemplify inclusion. For a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019, including a year-to-year comparison between 2020 and 2019, refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to The Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following table sets forth certain financial data for the years ended December 31: (1)    Exclusive of depreciation and amortization expense. *    Not meaningful During 2021, revenues increased by $1,855 million as compared to 2020, representing growth of 11.1%, or 10.0% on a constant currency basis 3 . Our recently completed acquisitions contributed 320 basis points to our revenue growth. Our revenue growth also reflected our clients' continued adoption and integration of digital technologies and was aided by the negative im pact on 2020 revenues of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our 2020 revenue was negatively affected by the Samlink Impact, which contributed approximately 70 basis points to our 2021 revenue growth. We continue to experience pricing pressure on our non-digital services as our clients, particularly those in the Financial Services segment, optimize the cost of supporting their legacy systems and operations. Revenues from clients added during 2021, including those related to acquisitions, were $341 million. 3 Adjusted Income From Operations, Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted Diluted EPS and constant currency revenue growth are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, as applicable. The following charts set forth revenues and change in revenues by business segment and geography for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020: Revenue growth in this segment benefited from the 2020 Samlink Impact, which contributed approximately 220 basis points to our 2021 revenue growth, recently completed acquisitions and the negative impact on 2020 revenues of the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue growth also reflects the growing demand for our digital services par tially offset by clients' continued focus on cost optimization of supporting their legacy systems and operations. Revenues from clients added, including those related to acquisitions, since December 31, 2020 were $77 million. 4 Revenue growth among our life sciences clients was driven by increased demand for our services among pharmaceutical companies while revenue growth among our healthcare customers benefited from increased demand by health insurance customers for our integrated software solutions. Additionally, revenue growth reflected the negative impact on 2020 revenues of the COVID-19 pandemic. R evenues from clients added since December 31, 2020 were $45 million . 4 Constant currency revenue growth is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information. Revenues from our manufacturing, logistics, energy and utilities clients benefited from our clients' adoption and integration of digital technologies. Rev enue growth in this segmen t included approximately 500 basis points related to recently completed acquisitions. Additionally, revenue growth reflected the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our 2020 revenue in this segment. Revenues from clients added, including those related to acquisitions, since December 31, 2020 were $113 million . 5 Revenues reflected growing demand from our technology clients for services related to digital content, primarily driven by our largest clients in this segment, and were negatively impacted by 190 basis points due to our exit from certain content-related services. Revenue growth in this segment included approximately 650 basis points related to recently completed acquisitions and also reflected the negative impact to our 2020 revenue of the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenues from clients added, including those related to acquisitions, since December 31, 2020 were $106 million. Revenues of $18,507 million by geographic market were as follows for the year ended December 31, 2021: North America continues to be our largest market, representing 73.7% of total revenues and 56.9% of total growth for the year ended December 31, 2021. Revenue growth across all regions benefited from our recently completed acquisitions and was also aided by the negative impact on our 2020 revenues of the COVID-19 pandemic . All regions also be nefited from favorable foreign currency exchange rate movements. A significant portion of revenue growth in our Continental Europe and Rest of World regions was driven by our German and Australian markets, respectively, which both benefited from recent acquisitions. In addition, revenue growth in Continental Europe benefited 770 basis points from the 2020 Samlink Impact. 5 Constant currency revenue growth is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information. Our cost of revenues consists primarily of salaries, incentive-based compensation, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, project-related immigration and travel for technical personnel, subcontracting and equipment costs relating to revenues. The decrease in cost of revenues, as a percentage of revenues, was due primarily to savings from the implementation of the delivery cost optimization initiatives of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan, the adverse Samlink Impact in 2020, a decrease in travel and entertainment costs as a result of a reduction in travel due to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the negative impact on our 2020 results from the pandemic and the April 2020 ransomware attack, partially offset by increased subcontractor and compensation costs as a result of significantly elevated employee attrition levels. SG&A expenses consist primarily of salaries, incentive-based compensation, stock-based compensation expense, employee benefits, immigration, travel, marketing, communications, management, finance, administrative and occupancy costs. The increase, as a percentage of revenues, was due primarily to investments intended to drive and support organic revenue growth, including additions to our sales organization and initiatives to reposition our brand, as well as increased costs as a result of our recently completed acquisitions and costs related to the modernization of our core IT systems, partially offset by a reduction in expenses attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic and the April 2020 ransomware attack. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by 4.0% during 2021 as compared to 2020 primarily due to amortization of intangibles from recently completed acquisitions. Our 2021 GAAP and Adjusted Operating Mar gins 6 benefited from savings generated by the implementation of the delivery cost optimization initiatives of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan and a decrease in travel and entertainment costs. These benefits were partially offset by investments intended to drive and support organic revenue growth, including additions to our sales organization and initiatives to reposition our brand, as well as the negative impact on margin of our recently completed acquisitions, increased subcontractor and compensation costs as a result of significantly elevated employee attrition and costs related to the modernization of our core IT systems. Our 2020 operating margins were adversely impacted by the decline in revenues brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Samlink Impact and the April 2020 ransomware attack. Our 2020 GAAP operating margin was also negatively impacted by costs related to our restructuring program that concluded at the end of 2020 and COVID-19 Charges. 6 Adjusted Income From Operations and Adjusted Operating Margin are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information and reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, as applicable. Excluding the impact of applicable designated cash flow hedges, the appreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar negatively impacted our operating margin by approximately 5 basis points in 2021, while in 2020 the depreciation of the Indian rupee again st the U.S. dollar positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 92 basis points . Each additional 1.0% change in exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will have the effect of moving our operating margin by approximately 18 basis points, excluding the impact of our cash flow hedges. We enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to hedge certain Indian rupee denominated payments in India. These hedges are intended to mitigate the volatility of the changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee. In 2021, the settlement of our cash flow hedges positively impacted our operating margin by approximately 35 basis points. The impact of the settlement of our cash flow hedges was immaterial in 2020. We finished the year ended December 31, 2021 with approximately 330,600 employees as compared to 289,500 employees for the year ended December 31, 2020. Annualized attrition, including both voluntary and involuntary, was approximately 34.6% for the three months ended December 31, 2021. Attrition, including both voluntary and involuntary, was approximately 30.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021. In 2021, voluntary attrition was significantly elevated and constituted the vast majority of our attrition for the period. By comparison, voluntary attrition in the year ended December 31, 2020 represented only approximately half of our attrition for the period as our personnel actions taken under our Fit for Growth Plan increased involuntary attrition while voluntary attrition was suppressed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Attrition in all periods presented is weighted towards our more junior level employees. Segment operating profit and operating margin percentage were as follows: Across all our business segments, operating margins benefited from savings from the implementation of the delivery cost optimization initiatives of our 2020 Fit for Growth Plan, the decrease in travel and entertainment costs due to COVID-19 related reductions in travel and the negative impact on our 2020 results of the COVID-19 pandemic and the April 2020 ransomware attack. In 2021, segment operating margins were negatively impacted by increased subcontractor and compensation costs as a result of significantly elevated employee attrition levels. The 2020 operating margin in our Financial Services segment includes the 2020 adverse Samlink Impact. Total segment operating profit was as follows for the year ended December 31: The increase of $141 million in unallocated costs for the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to increased costs as a result of our recently completed acquisitions and costs related to initiatives to reposition our brand and the modernization of our core IT systems. Unallocated costs in 2020 included restructuring costs, COVID-19 Charges and costs related to the April 2020 ransomware attack. Total other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign currency exchange gains and losses, interest income and interest expense. The following table sets forth total other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31: The foreign currency exchange gains and losses were primarily attributed to the remeasurement of the Indian rupee denominated net monetary assets and liabilities in our U.S. dollar functional currency India subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, the remeasurement of other net monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of our subsidiaries. The gains and losses on our foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments related to the realized and unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange forward contracts entered into to offset foreign currency exposure to non-U.S. dollar denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2021, the notional value of our undesignated hedges was $847 million. The decrease in interest income of $89 million was primarily attributable to lower invested balances in India, which generate higher yields. Our invested balances in India are lower in 2021 as a result of our repatriation of cash from India in the fourth quarter of 2020. The effective tax rate decreased primarily as a result of: • our decision in 2020 to reverse our indefinite reinvestment assertion on Indian earnings accumulated in prior years which resulted in a $140 million Tax on Accumulated Indian Earnings recorded as income tax expense in 2020; • the 2020 Samlink Impact , which was not deductible for tax purposes; • the discrete benefit in 2021 of the settlement of the IRS examination for tax years 2012 through 2016 as described in to our consolidated financial statements; and • lower non-deductible foreign currency exchange losses in our consolidated statement of operations in 2021 . The increase in net income was driven by higher income from operations and lower foreign currency exchange losses, partially offset by lower interest income. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Portions of our disclosure include non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with our financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The reconciliations of our non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measures, set forth below, should be carefully evaluated. Our non-GAAP financial measures, Adjusted Operating Margin, Adjusted Income From Operations and Adjusted Diluted EPS exclude unusual items. Additionally, Adjusted Diluted EPS excludes net non-operating foreign currency exchange gains or losses and the tax impact of all the applicable adjustments. The income tax impact of each item is calculated by applying the statutory rate and local tax regulations in the jurisdiction in which the item was incurred. Constant currency revenue growth is defined as revenues for a given period restated at the comparative period’s foreign currency exchange rates measured against the comparative period's reported revenues. Free cash flow is defined as cash flows from operating activities net of purchases of property and equipment. We believe providing investors with an operating view consistent with how we manage the Company provides enhanced transparency into our operating results. For our internal management reporting and budgeting purposes, we use various GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making, to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, to determine portions of the compensation for our executive officers and for making comparisons of our operating results to those of our competitors. Therefore, it is our belief that the use of non-GAAP financial measures excluding certain costs provides a meaningful supplemental measure for investors to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that the presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures along with reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP measure, as applicable, can provide useful supplemental information to our management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. A limitation of using non-GAAP financial measures versus financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP is that non-GAAP financial measures do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our operating results as determined in accordance with GAAP and may exclude costs that are recurring such as our net non-operating foreign currency exchange gains or losses. In addition, other companies may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than us, thereby limiting the usefulness of these non-GAAP financial measures as a comparative tool. We compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures to allow investors to evaluate such non-GAAP financial measures. The following table presents a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP measure for the years ended December 31: (1)    During 2021, we recorded the Class Action Settlement Loss in "Selling, general and administrative expenses" in our consolidated financial statements. See to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (2)    As part of our realignment program, during 2020, we incurred employee retention costs and certain professional fees. See to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (3)    As part of our 2020 Fit for Growth plan, during 2020, we incurred certain employee separation, employee retention and facility exit costs and other charges. See to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. (4)    During 2020, we incurred costs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic including a one-time bonus to our employees at the designation of associate and below in both India and the Philippines, certain costs to enable our employees to work remotely and costs to provide medical staff and extra cleaning services for our facilities. Most of the costs related to the pandemic are reported in "Cost of revenues" in our consolidated statement of operations. (5)    Non-operating foreign currency exchange gains and losses, inclusive of gains and losses on related foreign exchange forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes, are reported in "Foreign currency exchange gains (losses), net" in our consolidated statements of operations. (6)    Presented below are the tax impacts of each of our non-GAAP adjustments to pre-tax income: (7)    In 2020, we reversed our indefinite reinvestment assertion on Indian earnings accumulated in prior years and recorded $140 million in income tax expense. Cash generated from operations has historically been our primary source of liquidity to fund operations and investments t o grow our business. As of December 31, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2,719 million. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, we had available capacity under our credit facilities of approximately $1,925 million. The following table provides a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31: Operating activities 7 The decrease i n cash provided by operating activities in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily driven by the deferrals of certain non-income tax payments due to COVID-19 pandemic regulatory relief in 2020, a portion of which was remitted in 2021, and higher incentive-based compensation payouts in 2021. We monitor turnover, aging and the collection of trade accounts receivable by client. Our DSO calculation includes trade accounts receivable, net of allowance for credit losses, and contract assets, reduced by the uncollected portion of our deferred revenue. DSO was 69 days as of December 31, 2021 and 70 days as of December 31, 2020. Investing activities The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily driven by net purchases of investments as compared to sales in 2020, partially offset by lower payments for acquisitions and capital expenditures. 7 Free cash flow is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information. Financing activities The decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2021 compared to 2020 is primarily due to lower repurchases of common stock in 2021. We have a Credit Agreement providing for a $750 million Term Loan and a $1,750 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which are due to mature in November 2023. We are required under the Credit Agree ment to make scheduled quarterly principal payments on the Term Loan. See to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement to borrow thereunder, and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the remaining available capacity under the revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2021 and through the date of this filing. As of December 31, 2021, we had no outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility. In February 2021, our India subsidiary renewed its one-year 13 billion Indian rupee ($175 million at the December 31, 2021 exchange rate) working capital facility, which requires us to repay any balances drawn down within 90 days from the date of disbursement. There is a 1.0% prepayment penalty applicable to payments made within 30 days of disbursement. This working capital facility contains affirmative and negative covenants and may be renewed annually in February. As of December 31, 2021, there was no balance outstanding under the working capital facility. Capital Allocation Framework Our capital allocation framework anticipates the deployment of approximately 50% of our free cash flow 8 for acquisitions, 25% for share repurchases and 25% for dividend payments. We review our capital allocation framework on an ongoing basis, considering the pote ntial impacts of COVID-1 9 pandemic, our financial performance and liquidity position, investments required to execute our strategic plans and initiatives, acquisition opportunities, the economic outlook, regulatory changes and other relevant factors. As these factors may change over time, the actual amounts expended on stock repurchase activity, dividends, and acquisitions, if any, during any particular period cannot be predicted and may fluctuate from time to time. Other Liquidity and Capital Resources Information We seek to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. As part of our ongoing liquidity assessments, we regularly monitor the mix of our domestic and international cash flows and cash balances. We evaluate on an ongoing basis what portion of the non-U.S. cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments is needed locally to execute our strategic plans and what amount is available for repatriation back to the United States . We expect our operating cash flows, cash and short-term investment balances, together with our available capacity under our revolving credit facilities, to be sufficient to meet our operating requirements, pay our purchase commitments and Tax Reform Act transition tax payments and service our debt for the next twelve months. Our Tax Reform Act transition tax payments are due in annual installments of $50 million, $94 million, $126 million and $157 million through 2025. We also have purchase commitments of approximately $263 million which will be paid over the next two years. See to our consolidated financial statements for a description of our operating lease obligations. Our ability to expand and grow our business in accordance with current plans, make acquisitions, meet our long-term capital requirements beyond a twelve-month period and execute our capital allocation framework will depend on many factors, including the rate, if any, at which our cash flow increases, our ability and willingness to pay for acquisitions with capital stock and the availability of public and private debt and equity financing. We cannot be certain that additional financing, if required, will be available on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all. 8 Free cash flow is not a measurement of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for more information. Management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our accompanying consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. We base our estimates on historical experience, current trends and on various other assumptions that are believed to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. However, the actual amounts may differ from the estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We believe the following accounting estimates are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial statements as they require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, resulting from the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Changes to these estimates could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our significant accounting policies are described in to our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition . Revenues related to fixed-price contracts for application development and systems integration services, consulting or other technology services are recognized as the service is performed using the cost to cost method, under which the total value of revenues is recognized on the basis of the percentage that each contract’s total labor cost to date bears to the total expected labor costs. Revenues related to fixed-price application maintenance, testing and business process services are recognized using the cost to cost method, if the right to invoice is not representative of the value being delivered. The cost to cost method requires estimation of future costs, which is updated as the project progresses to reflect the latest available information. Such estimates and changes in estimates involve the use of judgment. The cumulative impact of any revision in estimates is reflected in the financial reporting period in which the change in estimate becomes known. Net changes in estimates of such future costs and contract losses were immaterial to the consolidated results of operations for the periods presented. Income Taxes. Determining the consolidated provision for income tax expense, deferred income tax assets (and related valuation allowance, if any) and liabilities requires significant judgment. We are required to calculate and provide for income taxes in each of the jurisdictions where we operate. Changes in the geographic mix of income before taxes or estimated level of annual pre-tax income can affect our overall effective income tax rate. In addition, transactions between our affiliated entities are arranged in accordance with applicable transfer pricing laws, regulations and relevant guidelines. As a result, and due to the interpretive nature of certain aspects of these laws and guidelines, we have pending applications for APAs before the taxing authorities in some of our most significant jurisdictions. It could take years for the relevant taxing authorities to negotiate and conclude these applications. The consolidated provision for income taxes may change period to period based on changes in facts and circumstances, such as settlements of income tax audits or finalization of our applications for APAs. Our provision for income taxes also includes the impact of reserves established for uncertain income tax positions, as well as the related interest, which may require us to apply judgment to complex issues and may require an extended period of time to resolve. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final outcome of these matters will not differ from our recorded amounts. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters differs from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made. Business Combinations, Goodwill and Intangible Assets . Goodwill and intangible assets, including indefinite-lived intangible assets, arise from the accounting for business combinations. We account for business combinations using the acquisition method which requires us to estimate the fair value of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, including any contingent consideration, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The allocation of the purchase price utilizes estimates and assumptions in determining the fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, especially with respect to intangible assets, including the timing and amount of forecasted revenues and cash flows, anticipated growth rates, client attrition rates and the discount rate reflecting the risk inherent in future cash flows. We exercise judgment to allocate goodwill to the reporting units expected to benefit from each business combination. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, regulatory environment, established business plans, operating performance indicators or competition. Evaluation of goodwill for impairment requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach, utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis, and a market approach, using market multiples. Under the income approach, we estimate projected future cash flows, the timing of such cash flows and long-term growth rates, and determine the appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in the projected future cash flows. The discount rate used is based on a market participant weighted-average cost of capital and may be adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business-specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit’s ability to execute on the projected future cash flows. Under the market approach, we estimate fair value based on market multiples of revenues and earnings derived from comparable publicly-traded companies with characteristics similar to the reporting unit. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value for each reporting unit. Based on our most recent evaluation of goodwill performed during the fourth quarter of 2021, we concluded that the goodwill in each of our reporting units were not at risk of impairment. As of December 31, 2021, our goodwill balance was $5,620 million. We review our finite-lived assets, including our finite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenev er eve nts or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset group may not be recoverable. The carrying amount may not be recoverable when the sum of undiscounted expected future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of such asset groups.  The impairment loss is determined as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset group exceeds its fair value. Assessing the fair value of asset groups involves significant estimates and assumptions including estimation of future cash flows, the timing of such cash flows and discount rates reflecting the risk inherent in future cash flows. See to our consolidated financial statements for additional information. The statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties. Such forward-looking statements may be identified by, among other things, the use of forward-looking terminology such as “believe,” “expect,” “may,” “could,” “would,” “plan,” “intend,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential,” “continue,” “should” or “anticipate” or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy that involve risks and uncertainties. From time to time, we or our representatives have made or may make forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward-looking statements may be included in various filings made by us with the SEC, in press releases or in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our authorized executive officers. These forwar d-looking statements, such as statements regarding our anticipated future revenues or operating margin, earnings, capital expenditures, impacts to our business, financial results and financial condition as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the competitive marketplace for talent and future attrition trends, anticipated effective income tax rate and income tax expense, liquidity, access to capital, capital return strategy, investment strategies, cost management, plans and objectives, including those related to our digital practice areas, investment in our business, potential acquisitions, industry trends, client behaviors and trends, the outcome of and costs associated with regulatory and litigation matters, the appropriateness of the accrual related to the India Defined Contribution Obligation and other statements regarding matters that are not historical facts, are based on our current expectations, estimates and projections, management’s beliefs and certain assumptions made by management, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control. Actual results, performance, achievements and outcomes could differ materially from the results expressed in, or anticipated or implied by, these forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, including: • economic and political conditions globally and in particular in the markets in which our clients and operations are concentrated; • the continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, or other future pandemics, on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition; • our ability to attract, train and retain skilled employees, including highly skilled technical personnel to satisfy client demand and senior management to lead our business globally; • challenges related to growing our business organically as well as inorganically through acquisitions, and our ability to achieve our targeted growth rates; • our ability to achieve our profitability goals and maintain our capital return strategy; • our ability to meet specified service levels or milestones required by certain of our contracts; • intense and evolving competition and significant technological advances that our service offerings must keep pace with in the rapidly changing markets we compete in; • legal, reputation and financial risks if we fail to protect client and/or our data from security breaches and/or cyber attacks; • the effectiveness of our risk management, business continuity and disaster recovery plans and the potential that our global delivery capabilities could be impacted; • restrictions on visas, in particular in the United States, United Kingdom and EU, or immigration more generally or increased costs of such visas or the wages we are required to pay employees on visas, which may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to our clients; • risks related to anti-outsourcing legislation, if adopted, and negative perceptions associated with offshore outsourcing, both of which could impair our ability to serve our clients; • risks and costs related to complying with numerous and evolving legal and regulatory requirements and client expectations in the many jurisdictions in which we operate; • potential changes in tax laws, or in their interpretation or enforcement, failure by us to adapt our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements to achieve global tax efficiencies or adverse outcomes of tax audits, investigations or proceedings; • potential exposure to litigation and legal claims in the conduct of our business; and • the factors set forth in Part I, in the section entitled “ ” in this report. You are advised to consult any further disclosures we make on related subjects in the reports we file with the SEC, including this report in the sections titled “ ,” “ ” and “ .” We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws.