********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to our Industry Corteva may not be able to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for some of its products, including its seed and crop protection products, which could restrict its ability to sell those products in some markets. Regulatory and legislative requirements affect the development, manufacture and distribution of Corteva’s products, including the testing and planting of seeds containing Corteva’s biotechnology traits and the import of crops grown from those seeds, and non-compliance can harm Corteva’s sales and profitability. Seed products incorporating biotechnology derived traits and crop protection products must be extensively tested for safety, efficacy and environmental impact before they can be registered for production, use, sale or commercialization in a given market. In certain jurisdictions, Corteva must periodically renew its approvals for both biotechnology and crop protection products, which typically require Corteva to demonstrate compliance with then-current standards which generally are more stringent since the prior registration. The regulatory approvals process is lengthy, costly, complex and in some markets unpredictable, with requirements that can vary by product, technology, industry and country. The regulatory approvals process for products that incorporate novel modes of action or new technologies can be particularly unpredictable and uncertain due to the then-current state of regulatory guidelines and objectives, as well as governmental policy considerations and non-governmental organization and other stakeholder considerations. The successful development and commercialization of Corteva’s pipeline products, including Enlist E3™ and Conkesta E3® soybeans, will be necessary for Corteva’s growth. Corteva uses advanced breeding technologies to produce hybrids and varieties with superior performance in farmers’ fields and uses biotechnology to introduce traits that enhance specific characteristics of its crops. Corteva also uses advanced analytics, software tools, mobile communications and new planting and monitoring equipment to provide agronomic recommendations to growers. Additionally, Corteva conducts research into biological and chemical products to protect farmers’ crops from pests and diseases and enhance plant productivity. New product concepts may be abandoned for many reasons, including greater anticipated development costs, technical difficulties, lack of efficacy, regulatory obstacles or inability to market under regulatory frameworks, competition, inability to prove the original concept, lack of demand and the need to divert focus, from time to time, to other initiatives with perceived opportunities for better returns. The processes of active ingredient development or discovery, breeding, biotechnology trait discovery and development and trait integration are lengthy, and a very small percentage of the chemicals, genes and germplasm Corteva tests is selected for commercialization. Furthermore, the length of time and the risk associated with the breeding and biotech pipelines are interlinked because both are required as a package for commercial success in markets where biotech traits are approved for growers. For example, the commercial transition to the company’s Enlist E3™ and Conkesta E3® soybean technologies, which are packaged with its Enlist One® and Enlist Duo® herbicides, is expected to take the company several years to complete . In countries where biotech traits are not approved for widespread use, Corteva’s seed sales depend on the quality of its germplasm. While initial commercialization efforts have been promising, there are no guarantees that anticipated levels of product acceptability within Corteva's markets will be achieved or that higher quality products will not be developed by Corteva's competitors in the future. Speed in discovering, developing, protecting and responding to new technologies, including new technology-based distribution channels that could facilitate Corteva’s ability to engage with customers and end users, and bringing related products to market is a significant competitive advantage. Commercial success frequently depends on being the first company to the market, and many of Corteva’s competitors are also making considerable investments in similar new biotechnology products, improved germplasm products, biological and chemical products and agronomic recommendation products. The degree of public understanding and acceptance or perceived public acceptance of Corteva’s biotechnology and other agricultural products and technologies can affect Corteva’s sales and results of operations by affecting planting approvals, regulatory requirements and customer purchase decisions. Concerns and claims regarding the safe use of seeds with biotechnology traits and crop protection products in general, their potential impact on health and the environment, and the perceived impacts of biotechnology on health and the environment, reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. These include concerns and claims that increased use of crop protection products, drift, inversion, volatilization and the use of biotechnology 13 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued traits meant to reduce the resistance of weeds or pests to control by crop protection products, could increase or accelerate such resistance and otherwise negatively impact health and the environment. These and other concerns could manifest themselves in stockholder proposals, preferred purchasing, delays or failures in obtaining or retaining regulatory approvals, delayed product launches, lack of market acceptance, product discontinuation, continued pressure for and adoption of more stringent regulatory intervention and litigation, termination of raw material supply agreements and legal claims. These and other concerns could also influence public perceptions, the viability or continued sales of certain of Corteva’s products, Corteva’s reputation and the cost to comply with regulations. As a result, such concerns could have a material adverse effect Corteva’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Changes in agricultural and related policies of governments and international organizations may prove unfavorable. In many markets there are various pressures to reduce government subsidies to farmers, which may inhibit the growth in these markets of products used in agriculture. In addition, government programs that create incentives for farmers may be modified or discontinued. However, it is difficult to predict accurately whether, and if so when, such changes will occur. Corteva expects that the policies of governments and international organizations will continue to affect the planting choices made by growers as well as the income available to growers to purchase products used in agriculture and, accordingly, the operating results of the agriculture industry. Corteva participates in an industry that is highly competitive and has undergone consolidation, which could increase competitive pressures. Corteva currently faces significant competition in the markets in which it operates. In most segments of the market, the number of products available to the grower is steadily increasing as new products are introduced. At the same time, certain products are coming off patent and are thus available to generic manufacturers for production and commercialization. Additionally, data analytic tools and web-based new direct purchase models offer increased transparency and comparability, which creates price pressures. Corteva cannot predict the pricing or promotional actions of its competitors. Aggressive marketing or pricing by Corteva’s competitors could adversely affect Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial conditions. As a result, Corteva continues to face significant competitive challenges. Furthermore, the detection of biotechnology traits or chemical residues from a crop protection product not approved in the country in which Corteva sells or cultivates its product, or in a country to which Corteva imports its product, may affect Corteva’s ability to supply its products or export its products, or even result in crop destruction, product recalls or trade disruption, which could result in lawsuits and termination of licenses related to biotechnology traits and raw material supply agreements. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to import, including those related to the importation of crops grown from seeds containing certain traits or treated with specific chemicals, may influence the rate of adoption of new products in globally traded crops. Additionally, the regulatory environment may be impacted by the activities of non-governmental organizations and special interest groups and stakeholder reaction to actual or perceived impacts of new and existing technology, products or processes on safety, health and the environment. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals requires submitting a significant amount of information and data, which may require participation from technology providers. Regulatory standards and trial procedures are continuously changing. In addition, Corteva has seen an increase in recent years in the number of lawsuits filed by those who identify themselves as public or environmental interest groups seeking to invalidate pesticide product registrations and/or challenge the way federal or state governmental entities apply the rules and regulations governing pesticide produce use. The pace of change together with the lack of regulatory harmony could result in unintended noncompliance. Responding to these changes and meeting existing and new requirements may involve significant costs or capital expenditures or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced profitability. The failure to receive necessary permits or approvals could have near- and long-term effects on Corteva’s ability to produce and sell some current and future products. 14 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued Corteva’s business may be materially affected by competition from manufacturers of generic products. Competition from manufacturers of generic products is a challenge for Corteva’s branded products around the world, and the loss or expiration of intellectual property rights can have a significant adverse effect on Corteva’s revenues. The date at which generic competition commences may be different from the date that the patent or regulatory exclusivity expires. However, upon the loss or expiration of patent protection for one of Corteva’s products or of a product that Corteva licenses, or upon the “at-risk” launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a generic manufacturer of a generic version of one of Corteva’s patented products or of a product that Corteva licenses, Corteva can lose a major portion of revenues for that product, which can have a material adverse effect on Corteva’s business. The costs of complying with evolving regulatory requirements could negatively impact Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. Corteva is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment, waste water discharges, the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials and the use of genetically modified seeds and crop protection active ingredients by growers. Environmental and health and safety laws, regulations and standards expose Corteva to the risk of substantial costs and liabilities, including liabilities associated with Corteva’s business and the discontinued and divested businesses and operations of EID. As is typical for businesses like Corteva’s, soil and groundwater contamination has occurred in the past at certain sites and may be identified at other sites in the future. Disposal of waste from Corteva’s business at off-site locations also exposes it to potential remediation costs. Consistent with past practice, Corteva is continuing to monitor, investigate and remediate soil and groundwater contamination at several of these sites. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt Corteva’s operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities, which may be materially higher than Corteva’s accruals. Climate change and unpredictable seasonal and weather factors could impact Corteva’s sales and earnings. The agriculture industry is subject to seasonal and weather factors, which can vary unpredictably from period to period. Weather factors can affect the presence of disease and pests on a regional basis and, accordingly, can positively or adversely affect the demand for crop protection products, including the mix of products used or the level of returns. The weather also can affect the quality, volume and cost of seed produced for sale as well as demand and product mix. Seed yields can be higher or lower than planned, which could lead to higher inventory and related write-offs. Climate change may increase the frequency or intensity of extreme weather such as storms, floods, heat waves, droughts and other events that could affect the quality, volume and cost of seed produced for sale as well as demand and product mix. Climate change may also affect the availability and suitability of arable land and contribute to unpredictable shifts in the average growing season and types of crops produced. Reduction in ethanol demand driven by declines in crude oil and gasoline consumption could negatively impact demand for corn, which can negatively impact the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. During 2020 global and U.S. crude oil price benchmarks suffered record declines in demand resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic stay-at-home orders and over-supply due to price disputes between Russia and Saudi Arabia.  U.S. ethanol producers have shut down their facilities and declared “force majeure” on shipments for corn purchases due to depressed demand. Similar trends with respect to bio-fuels, like ethanol, are occurring globally. Approximately one-third of U.S. corn has been historically used in the production of ethanol for gasoline. However, U.S. ethanol supplies bottomed at approximately 53% of its pre-COVID-19 U.S. lockdown levels in April 2020 and have not yet rebounded to pre-COVID lockdown levels. This lost corn utilization to manufacture ethanol may add to ending corn inventory stock. Continued declines in the demand for corn, or over-supply, will negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued Corteva’s sales to its customers may be adversely affected should a company successfully establish an intermediary platform for the sale of Corteva’s products or otherwise position itself between Corteva and its customers. Corteva services customers primarily through the Pioneer direct sales channel in key agricultural geographies, including the United States. In addition, Corteva supplements this approach with strong retail channels, including distributors, agricultural cooperatives and dealers, and with digital solutions that assist farmer decision-making with a view to optimize their product selection and maximize their yield and profitability. While Corteva expects the indirect channels and its digital platform will extend its reach and increase exposure of its products to other potential customers, including smaller farmers or farmers in less concentrated areas, there can be no assurance that Corteva will be successful in this regard. If a competitor were to successfully establish an intermediary platform for distribution of Corteva’s products, especially with respect to Corteva’s digital platform, it may disrupt Corteva’s distribution model and inhibit Corteva’s ability to provide a complete go-to-market strategy covering the direct, dealer and retail channels. In such a circumstance, Corteva’s sales may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations Corteva is dependent on its relationships or contracts with third parties with respect to certain of its raw materials or licenses and commercialization. Corteva is dependent on third parties in the research, development and commercialization of its products and enters into transactions including, but not limited to, supply agreements and licensing agreements in connection with Corteva’s business. The majority of Corteva’s corn hybrids and soybean varieties sold to customers contain biotechnology traits that Corteva licenses from third parties under long-term licenses. If Corteva loses its rights under such licenses, it could negatively impact Corteva’s ability to obtain future licenses on competitive terms, commercialize new products and generate sales from existing products. To maintain such licenses, Corteva may elect to out-license its technology, including germplasm. There can be no guarantee that such out-licensing will not ultimately strengthen Corteva’s competition thereby adversely impacting Corteva’s results of operations. While Corteva relies heavily on third parties for multiple aspects of its business and commercialization activities, Corteva does not control many aspects of such third parties’ activities. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule or in accordance with Corteva’s expectations. Failure by one or more of these third parties to meet their contractual or other obligations to Corteva or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, or any disruption in the relationship between Corteva and one or more of these third parties could delay or prevent the development, approval or commercialization of Corteva’s products and could also result in non-compliance or reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for Corteva’s business. In addition, Corteva’s agreements with third parties may obligate it to meet certain contractual or other obligations to third parties. For example, Corteva may be obligated to meet certain thresholds or abide by certain boundary conditions. If Corteva were to fail to meet such obligations to the third parties, its relationship with such third parties may be disrupted. Such a disruption could negatively impact certain of Corteva’s licenses on which it depends, could cause reputational harm, and could negatively affect Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by industrial espionage and other disruptions to its supply chain, information technology or network systems. Business and/or supply chain disruptions, plant and/or power outages and information technology system and/or network disruptions, regardless of cause including acts of sabotage, employee error or other actions, geo-political activity, local epidemics or pandemics, weather events and natural disasters could seriously harm Corteva’s operations as well as the operations of its customers and suppliers. For example, a pandemic in locations where Corteva has significant operations, sales, or key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on Corteva’s results of operations. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased stakeholder concerns about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. Business and/or supply chain disruptions may also be caused by security breaches, which could include, for example, attacks on information technology and infrastructure by hackers, viruses, breaches due to employee error or actions or other disruptions. Corteva and/or its suppliers may fail to effectively prevent, detect and recover from these or other security breaches and, as a consequence, such breaches could result in misuse of Corteva’s assets, business disruptions, loss of property including trade 16 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued secrets and confidential business information, legal claims or proceedings, reporting errors, processing inefficiencies, negative media attention, loss of sales and interference with regulatory compliance. Like most major corporations, Corteva is the target of industrial espionage, including cyber-attacks, from time to time. Corteva has determined that these incidents have resulted, and could result in the future, in unauthorized parties gaining access to certain confidential business information. However, to date, Corteva has not experienced any material financial impact, changes in the competitive environment or impact on business operations from these events. Although management does not believe that Corteva has experienced any material losses to date related to industrial espionage and security breaches, including cybersecurity incidents, there can be no assurance that Corteva will not suffer such losses in the future. Corteva actively manages the risks within its control that could lead to business disruptions and security breaches. As these threats continue to evolve, particularly around cybersecurity, Corteva may be required to expend significant resources to enhance its control environment, processes, practices and other protective measures. Despite these efforts, such events could also have a material adverse effect on Corteva’s business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Additionally, any losses from such an event may be excluded from, or in excess of the coverages provided by Corteva's insurance policies. Volatility in Corteva’s input costs, which include raw materials and production costs, could have a significant impact on Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Corteva’s input costs are variable based on the costs associated with production or with raw materials Corteva uses. For example, Corteva’s production costs vary, especially on a seasonal basis where changes in weather influence supply and demand. In addition, Corteva’s manufacturing processes consume significant amounts of raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond Corteva’s control. Corteva refers to these costs collectively as input costs. Significant variations in input costs affect Corteva’s operating results from period to period. When possible, Corteva purchases raw materials through negotiated long-term contracts to minimize the impact of price fluctuations. Corteva also enters into over-the-counter and exchange traded derivative commodity instruments to hedge its exposure to price fluctuations on certain raw material purchases. In addition, Corteva takes actions to offset the effects of higher input costs through selling price increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction programs. Success in offsetting higher input costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. If Corteva is not able to fully offset the effects of higher input costs, it could have a significant impact on its financial results. Corteva may be unable to achieve all the benefits that it expects to achieve from future restructuring and other cost savings initiatives, which may adversely affect Corteva’s results and negatively affect the value of Corteva common stock. Restructurings, cost savings programs, synergy expectations and other similar initiatives can be complex, costly and time-consuming processes. Management may face significant challenges in implementing or realizing the expected benefits from these programs, many of which may be beyond the control of management, including, without limitation: • difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects; • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding the integration or separation process, including with respect to the intended tax efficient transactions; • unanticipated issues in integrating, replicating or separating information technology, communications programs, financial procedures and operations, and other systems, procedures and policies; • addressing differences in business culture and retaining key personnel; • unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; • managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of Corteva and the intended tax efficient separation transactions; 17 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued • coordinating geographically separate organizations; • failing to successfully optimize Corteva’s facilities footprint and operational programs; and • failing to otherwise integrate EID’s or DAS’s respective agriculture businesses, including their technology platforms. Some of these factors are outside of Corteva’s control and any one of them could result in increased costs and diversion of management’s time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue which could materially impact Corteva’s business, financial condition and results of operations. If the anticipated benefits and cost savings from restructurings, cost saving initiatives or transactions are not realized fully or take longer to realize than expected, the value of Corteva’s common stock, revenues, levels of expenses and results of operations may be affected adversely. There can be no assurance that Corteva will be able to sustain any or all the cost savings generated from its restructurings or cost savings initiatives. Corteva’s liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition could be impaired if it is unable to raise capital through the capital markets or short-term debt borrowings. Any limitation on Corteva’s ability to raise money in the capital markets or through short-term debt borrowings could have a substantial negative effect on Corteva’s liquidity. Corteva’s ability to affordably access the capital markets and/or borrow short-term debt in amounts adequate to finance its activities could be impaired as a result of a variety of factors, including factors that are not specific to Corteva, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets and, in the case of debt securities or borrowings, interest rate fluctuations. Due to the seasonality of Corteva’s business and the credit programs Corteva may offer its customers, net working capital investment and corresponding debt levels will fluctuate over the course of the year. Corteva regularly extends credit to its customers to enable them to purchase seeds or crop protection products at the beginning of the growing season. The customer receivables may be used as collateral for short-term financing programs. Any material adverse effect upon Corteva’s ability to own or sell such customer receivables, including seasonal factors that may impact the amount of customer receivables Corteva owns, may materially impact Corteva’s access to capital. Corteva has additional agreements with financial institutions to establish programs that provide financing for select customers of Corteva’s seed and crop protection products in the United States, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The programs are renewed on an annual basis. In most cases, Corteva guarantees the extension of such credit to such customers. If Corteva is unable to renew these agreements or access the debt markets to support customer financing, Corteva’s sales may be negatively impacted, which could result in increased borrowing needs to fund working capital. Corteva’s earnings, operations and business, among other things, will impact its credit ratings, costs and availability of financing. A decrease in the ratings assigned to Corteva or EID by the ratings agencies may negatively impact Corteva’s access to the debt capital markets and increase Corteva’s cost of borrowing and the financing of its seasonal working capital. There can be no assurance that Corteva or EID will maintain its current or prospective credit ratings. Any actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in such credit ratings may have a negative impact on Corteva’s liquidity, capital position or access to capital markets. Corteva’s customers may be unable to pay their debts to Corteva, which could adversely affect Corteva’s results. Corteva offers its customers financing programs with credit terms generally less than one year from invoicing in alignment with the growing season. Due to these credit practices as well as the seasonality of Corteva’s operations, Corteva may need to issue short-term debt at certain times of the year to fund its cash flow requirements. Corteva’s customers may be exposed to a variety of conditions that could adversely affect their ability to pay their debts. For example, customers in economies experiencing an economic downturn or in a region experiencing adverse growing conditions may be unable to repay their obligations to Corteva, which could adversely affect Corteva’s results. Increases in pension and other post-employment benefit plan funding obligations may adversely affect Corteva’s results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. 18 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued Through Corteva's ownership of EID, Corteva maintains EID defined benefit pension and other post-employment benefit plans. For some of these plans, including EID’s principal U.S. pension plan, Corteva continues as sponsor for the entire plan regardless of whether participants, including retirees, are or were associated with EID’s agriculture business. Corteva uses many assumptions in calculating its expected future payment obligations under these plans. Significant adverse changes in credit or market conditions could result in actual rates of returns on pension investments being lower than assumed. In addition, expected future payment obligations may be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions regarding participants, including retirees.  In 2021, Corteva expects to contribute approximately $47 million to its pension plans other than the principal U.S. pension plan, and about $217 million for its other post-employment benefit ("OPEB") plans. Additionally, Corteva may make potential discretionary contributions to the principal U.S. pension plan in 2021.  Corteva, furthermore, may be required to make significant contributions to its pension plans in the future, which could adversely affect Corteva’s results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by environmental, litigation and other commitments and contingencies. As a result of Corteva’s operations, including past operations and those related to divested businesses and discontinued operations of EID, Corteva incurs environmental operating costs for pollution abatement activities including waste collection and disposal, installation and maintenance of air pollution controls and wastewater treatment, emissions testing and monitoring and obtaining permits. Corteva also incurs environmental operating costs related to environmental related research and development activities including environmental field and treatment studies as well as toxicity and degradation testing to evaluate the environmental impact of products and raw materials. In addition, Corteva maintains and periodically reviews and adjusts its accruals for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs. Corteva expects to continue to incur environmental operating costs since it will operate global manufacturing, product handling and distribution facilities that are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. These rules are subject to change by the implementing governmental agency, which Corteva monitors closely. Corteva’s policy requires that its operations fully meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, Corteva expects to continue certain voluntary programs, and could consider additional voluntary actions, to reduce air emissions, minimize the generation of hazardous waste, decrease the volume of water use and discharges, increase the efficiency of energy use and reduce the generation of persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic materials. Costs to comply with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs and goals, are significant and Corteva expects these costs will continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. Over the long term, such expenditures are subject to considerable uncertainty and could fluctuate significantly. Corteva accrues for environmental matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As remediation activities vary substantially in duration and cost from site to site, it is difficult to develop precise estimates of future site remediation costs. Corteva expects to base such estimates on several factors, including the complexity of the geology, the nature and extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other Potentially Responsible Parties (“PRPs”) at multi-party sites and the number of, and financial viability of, other PRPs. Considerable uncertainty exists with respect to environmental remediation costs and, under adverse changes in circumstances, the potential liability may be materially higher than Corteva’s accruals. Corteva faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters arising out of the normal course of its current and former business operations, including intellectual property, commercial, product liability, environmental and antitrust lawsuits. Corteva has noted a trend in public and private suits being filed on behalf of states, counties, cities and utilities alleging harm to the general public and the environment, including waterways and watersheds. Claims alleging harm to the public and the environment may be brought against Corteva, notwithstanding years of scientific evidence and regulatory determinations supporting the safety of crop protection products. The litigation involving Monsanto’s Roundup ® non-selective glyphosate containing weedkiller products has resulted in negative publicity and sentiment and may lead to similar suits with respect to glyphosate-containing products and/or other established crop protection products. Claims and allegations that Corteva’s products or products that Corteva manufactures or markets on behalf of third parties are not safe could result in litigation, damage to Corteva’s reputation and have a material adverse effect on Corteva’s business. It is not possible to predict the outcome of these various proceedings and any potential impact on Corteva. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters may result in losses not fully covered by Corteva's insurance policies, and could be material to Corteva's financial results. Various factors or developments can lead to changes in current estimates of liabilities. Such factors and developments may include, but are not limited to, additional data, safety or risk assessments, as well as a final adverse judgment, significant 19 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued settlement or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling or unfavorable development could result in future charges that could have a material adverse effect on Corteva. The company, pursuant to the respective Separation Agreements, is entitled to cost sharing and indemnification from Chemours, Dow and DuPont, as applicable, for certain litigation, environmental, workers’ compensation and other liabilities related to its historical operations.  In connection with the recognition of liabilities related to these matters, Corteva records an indemnification asset when recovery is deemed probable.  These estimates of recovery are subject to various factors and developments that could result in differences from future estimates or the actual recovery.  As of December 31, 2020, the indemnification assets pursuant to the Chemours Separation Agreement and the Corteva Separation Agreement are in aggregate $98 million within accounts and notes receivable - net and $308 million within other assets in the company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Any failure by, or inability to pay, these liabilities in line with the indemnification provisions of the Separation Agreements may have a material adverse effect on Corteva and its financial condition and results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, Corteva may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations, including those related to divested businesses and issue guarantees of third party obligations. If Corteva were required to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued, thereby adversely affecting Corteva’s financial condition and results of operations. Corteva’s operations outside the United States are subject to risks and restrictions, which could negatively affect Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Corteva’s operations outside the United States are subject to risks and restrictions, including fluctuations in foreign-currency exchange rates; exchange control regulations; corruption risks; competitive restrictions; changes in local political or economic conditions; import and trade restrictions; import or export licensing requirements and trade policy; and other potentially detrimental domestic and foreign governmental practices or policies affecting U.S. companies doing business abroad.  In addition, Corteva’s international operations are sometimes in countries with unstable governments, economic or fiscal challenges, military or political conflicts, local epidemics or pandemics, significant levels of crime and organized crime, or developing legal systems.  This may increase the risk to the company's employees, subcontractors or other parties, and to other liabilities, such as property loss or damage to the company's products, and may affect Corteva's ability to safely operate in, or import into, or receive raw materials from these countries. Additionally, Corteva’s ability to export its products and its sales outside the United States has been, and may continue to be adversely affected by significant changes in trade, tax or other policies, including the risk that other countries may retaliate through the imposition of their own trade restrictions and/or increased tariffs in response to substantial changes to U.S. trade and tax policies. Although Corteva has operations throughout the world, Corteva’s sales outside the United States in 2020 were principally to customers in Brazil, Eurozone countries, and Canada. Further, Corteva’s largest currency exposures are the Brazilian Real, Swiss franc, European Euro ("EUR"), and Canadian dollar. Market uncertainty or an economic downturn in these geographic areas could reduce demand for Corteva’s products and result in decreased sales volume, which could have a negative impact on Corteva’s results of operations. In addition, changes in exchange rates may affect Corteva’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. Corteva actively manages currency exposures that are associated with net monetary asset positions and committed purchases. Failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances and other portfolio actions could adversely impact Corteva’s future results. From time to time Corteva evaluates acquisition candidates that may strategically fit Corteva’s business and/or growth objectives. If Corteva is unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, Corteva could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on Corteva’s financial results. Corteva continually reviews its portfolio of assets for contributions to its objectives and alignment with its growth strategy. However, Corteva may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets and gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets may affect Corteva’s earnings. Moreover, Corteva might incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce its earnings. In addition, if the execution or implementation of acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions is not successful, it could adversely impact Corteva’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 20 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued Global or regional health pandemics or epidemics, including COVID-19, could negatively impact the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Corteva's business, financial condition, and results of operations could be negatively impacted by COVID-19 or other pandemics or epidemics. The severity, magnitude and duration of the current COVID-19 pandemic and future outbreaks is uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. To date, the COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted foreign currency exchange rates, as a result of a generally stronger U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in the countries in which the company operates, which has adversely affected the company's reported results of operations. These relative differences could widen and further adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. COVID-19 and the related government-imposed restrictions, including stay at home orders, has significantly impacted other economic activity and markets around the world, which could negatively impact the company's business, financial condition, and results of operations in numerous ways, including but not limited to those outlined below: • Current and future COVID-19 outbreaks and resulting illness, travel restrictions and workforce disruptions could impact Corteva's global supply chain, its operations and its routes to market or those of its suppliers, co-manufacturers, or customers/distributors. These disruptions or the company's failure to effectively respond to them could increase product or distribution costs, alter the timing of recognizing manufacturing costs, or impact the delivery of products to customers. • Government or regulatory responses to pandemics could negatively impact the company's business. Mandatory lockdowns or other restrictions on operations in certain countries have temporarily disrupted the company's ability to operate or distribute its products in these markets. Continuation or expansion of these disruptions could materially adversely impact the company's operations and results. • Reductions to the company’s forecasted profitability and continued global economic decline could trigger potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite and definite-lived intangible assets. • The instability or unavailability of a farm workforce to harvest agricultural products could impact the company's customers’ ability to monetize their crop and potentially impact the collection of the company's customer receivables. • Continued commodity cost volatility is expected and the company's commodity hedging activities may not sufficiently offset this volatility. Depressed commodity prices may increase the insolvency risk of Corteva's customers in the longer-term, along with reducing the demand for Corteva's products. • Disruptions or uncertainties related to the COVID-19 outbreak for a sustained period of time could result in delays or modifications to the company's strategic plans and productivity initiatives. • Increased volatility and pricing in the capital and commercial paper markets may reoccur and impact the company's access to preferred sources of liquidity resulting in higher borrowing costs. The company cannot assure investors that additional liquidity will be readily available or available on favorable terms. • Increased market volatility may bring unprecedented market conditions making it difficult for the company to adequately forecast customer demand or price its products. Therefore, the impact of the recent COVID-19 outbreak and the unprecedented economic conditions resulting from it will have on the company's consolidated results of operations is uncertain, but could still negatively impact the company's business operations, financial performance and results of operations in the future. Corteva’s business or stock price could be negatively affected as a result of actions of activist stockholders. Corteva's board of directors and management value constructive input from our stockholders and are committed to acting in the best interests of all our stockholders.  However, Corteva may be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders or others that may not align with its business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. The company recently received a notice from Starboard Value and Opportunity Master Fund Ltd. (“Starboard”) of its intention to nominate eight director candidates for election to the company’s board of directors at the company’s 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Starboard has also made public statements calling for changes to our management. Responding to these actions by Starboard and potential actions by other activist stockholders could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt the company's operations and divert the attention of its board of directors, management and our employees. A contested election with respect to the company's directors could also require the company to incur substantial legal, public relations and other advisory fees and proxy solicitation expenses. In addition, perceived uncertainties as to Corteva's future direction, strategy or leadership created 21 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued as a consequence of activist stockholder initiatives may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, customers, employees, suppliers and other strategic partners. The perceived uncertainties as to the company’s future direction, strategy or leadership, also could cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Enforcing Corteva’s intellectual property rights, or defending against intellectual property claims asserted by others, could materially affect Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Intellectual property rights, including patents, plant variety protection, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names and other forms of trade dress, are important to Corteva’s business. Corteva endeavors to protect its intellectual property rights in jurisdictions in which its products are produced or used and in jurisdictions into which its products are imported. However, Corteva may be unable to obtain protection for its intellectual property in key jurisdictions. Further, changes in government policies and regulations, including changes made in reaction to pressure from non-governmental organizations, or the public generally, could impact the extent of intellectual property protection afforded by such jurisdictions. Corteva has designed and implemented internal controls to restrict use of, access to and distribution of its intellectual property. Despite these precautions, Corteva’s intellectual property is vulnerable to infringement, misappropriation and other unauthorized access, including through employee or licensee error or actions, theft and cybersecurity incidents, and other security breaches. When unauthorized access and use or counterfeit products are discovered, Corteva reports such situations to governmental authorities for investigation, as appropriate, and takes measures to mitigate any potential impact. Protecting intellectual property related to biotechnology is particularly challenging because theft is difficult to detect and biotechnology can be self-replicating. Competitors are increasingly challenging intellectual property positions and the outcomes can be highly uncertain. Third parties may claim Corteva’s products violate their intellectual property rights. Defending such claims, even those without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive. In addition, any such claim could result in Corteva’s having to enter into license agreements, develop non-infringing products or engage in litigation that could be costly. If challenges are resolved adversely, it could negatively impact Corteva’s ability to obtain licenses on competitive terms, develop and commercialize new products and generate sales from existing products. In addition, because of the rapid pace of technological change, the confidentiality of patent applications in some jurisdictions and/or the uncertainty in predicting the outcome of complex proceedings relating to ownership and the scope of patents relating to certain emerging technologies, competitors may be issued patents related to Corteva’s business unexpectedly. These patents could reduce the value of Corteva’s commercial or pipeline products or, to the extent they cover key technologies on which Corteva has relied, require Corteva to seek to obtain licenses (and Corteva cannot ensure it would be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms) or cease using the technology, no matter how valuable to Corteva’s business. Legislation and jurisprudence on patent protection is evolving and changes in laws could affect Corteva’s ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for, and otherwise enforce Corteva’s patents related to, its products. Corteva’s business may be adversely affected by the availability of counterfeit products. A counterfeit product is one that has been deliberately and fraudulently mislabeled as to its identity and source. A counterfeit Corteva product, therefore, is one manufactured by someone other than Corteva, but which appears to be the same as an authentic Corteva product. The prevalence of counterfeit products is a significant and growing industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: the widespread use of the Internet, which has greatly facilitated the ease by which counterfeit products can be advertised, purchased and delivered to individual consumers; the availability of sophisticated technology that makes it easier for counterfeiters to make counterfeit products; and the relatively modest risk of penalties faced by counterfeiters compared to the large profits that can be earned by them from the sale of counterfeit products. Further, laws against counterfeiting vary greatly from country to country, and the enforcement of existing laws varies greatly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. For example, in some countries, counterfeiting is not a crime; in others, it may result in only minimal sanctions. In addition, those involved in the distribution of counterfeit products use complex transport routes to evade customs controls by disguising the true source of their products. 22 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued Corteva’s global reputation makes its products prime targets for counterfeiting organizations. Counterfeit products pose a risk to consumer health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured (often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites) as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. Failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit products, which is exacerbated by the complexity of the supply chain, could adversely impact Corteva’s business by, among other things, causing the loss of consumer confidence in Corteva’s name and in the integrity of its products, potentially resulting in lost sales and an increased threat of litigation. Corteva undertakes significant efforts to counteract the threats associated with counterfeit products, including, among other things, working with regulatory authorities and multinational coalitions to combat the counterfeiting of products and supporting efforts by law enforcement authorities to prosecute counterfeiters; assessing new and existing technologies to seek to make it more difficult for counterfeiters to copy Corteva’s products and easier for consumers to distinguish authentic from counterfeit products; working diligently to raise public awareness about the dangers of counterfeit products; working collaboratively with wholesalers, customs offices and law enforcement agencies to increase inspection coverage, monitor distribution channels and improve surveillance of distributors; and working with other members of an international trade association of agrochemical companies to promote initiatives to combat counterfeiting activity. No assurance can be given, however, that Corteva’s efforts and the efforts of others will be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit products may continue to increase. Restrictions under the intellectual property cross-license agreements limit Corteva’s ability to develop and commercialize certain products and services and/or prosecute, maintain and enforce certain intellectual property. The company is dependent to a certain extent on DuPont and Dow to maintain and enforce certain of the intellectual property licensed under the Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements. For example, DuPont and Dow are responsible for filing, prosecuting and maintaining (at their respective discretion) patents on trade secrets and know-how that they each respectively license to Corteva. They also have the first right to enforce their respective trade secrets and know-how licensed to Corteva. If DuPont or Dow, as applicable, fails to fulfill its obligations or chooses to not enforce the licensed patents, trade secrets or know-how under the Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements, the company may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competitive products and services. In addition, Corteva’s use of the intellectual property licensed to it under the Intellectual Property Cross-License Agreements is restricted to certain fields, which could limit Corteva’s ability to develop and commercialize certain products and services. For example, the licenses granted to Corteva under the agreement will not extend to all fields of use that the company may decide to enter into in the future. These restrictions may make it more difficult, time consuming and/or expensive for Corteva to develop and commercialize certain new products and services, or may result in certain of its products or services being later to market than those of its competitors. Risks Related to The Separation The company may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that it expected to achieve from the Separation from DowDuPont. Corteva continues to, among other things, focus its financial and operational resources on its specific business, growth profile and strategic priorities, guide its processes and infrastructure to focus on its core strengths, maintain a capital structure designed to meet its specific needs and more effectively respond to agricultural industry dynamics, all of which are benefits the company expected to achieve from its Separation. However, the company may be unable to fully achieve some or all of these benefits. For example, in order to position itself for the Separation and Distribution, the company undertook a series of strategic, structural and process realignment and restructuring actions within its operations. These actions may not provide the benefits the company expected, and could lead to disruption of operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to operate and grow its businesses following the Separation, weakening of its internal standards, controls or procedures and impairment of its key customer and supplier relationships. If the company fails to achieve some or all of the benefits that it expected to achieve as an independent company, or does not achieve them in the time expected, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Further, the company’s business traditionally was operated under the umbrella of DowDuPont’s corporate organization, with portions of its businesses being integrated with the businesses of Historical DuPont and Historical Dow. This integration has 23 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued historically permitted its business (or portions thereof) to enjoy economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships, both as part of the DowDuPont organization and within the Historical DuPont and Historical Dow internal corporate structures. The loss of these benefits could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In connection with the Separation the company has assumed, and agreed to indemnify DuPont and Dow for, certain liabilities. If the company is required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities, the company may need to divert cash to meet those obligations and its financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, DuPont and Dow will indemnify Corteva for certain liabilities. These indemnities may not be sufficient to insure the company against the full amount of liabilities it incurs, and DuPont and/or Dow, and/or their historical separated businesses, may not be able to satisfy their indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement and the Tax Matters Agreement with DuPont and Dow, the company agreed to assume, and indemnify DuPont and Dow for, certain liabilities for uncapped amounts, which may include, among other items, associated defense costs, settlement amounts and judgments, as discussed further in Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I - Item 3 - Legal Proceedings. Payments pursuant to these indemnities may be significant and could negatively impact the company’s business, particularly indemnities relating to certain litigation for Historical DuPont operations or its actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the Corteva Distribution. Third parties could also seek to hold the company responsible for any of the liabilities allocated to DuPont and Dow, including those related to DowDuPont’s specialty products and/or materials science businesses, respectively, and those related to discontinued and/or divested businesses and operations of Historical Dow, which have been allocated to Dow. DuPont and/or Dow, as applicable, will agree to indemnify Corteva for such liabilities, but such indemnities may not be sufficient to protect the company against the full amount of such liabilities. In addition, DuPont and/or Dow, as applicable, may not be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations with respect to the liabilities the company incurs. Even if the company ultimately succeeds in recovering from DuPont and/or Dow, as applicable, any amounts for which the company is held liable, the company may be temporarily required to bear these losses itself. Each of these risks could negatively affect the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, the company generally has assumed and is responsible for the payment of its share of (i) certain liabilities of DowDuPont relating to, arising out of or resulting from certain general corporate matters of DowDuPont, (ii) certain liabilities of Historical DuPont relating to, arising out of or resulting from general corporate matters of Historical DuPont and discontinued and/or divested businesses and operations of Historical DuPont, including its spin-off of Chemours, and (iii) certain separation expenses not otherwise allocated to DuPont or Dow (or allocated specifically to Corteva) pursuant to the Corteva Separation Agreement, and third parties could seek to hold Corteva responsible for DuPont’s or Dow’s share of any such liabilities. For more information, see Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I - Item 3 - Legal Proceedings. DuPont and/or Dow, as applicable, will indemnify Corteva for their share of any such liabilities; however, such indemnities may not be sufficient to protect Corteva against the full amount of such liabilities, and/or DuPont and/or Dow may not be able to fully satisfy their respective indemnification obligations. In addition, even if the company ultimately succeeds in recovering from DuPont and/or Dow any amounts for which the company is held liable in excess of its agreed share, the company may be temporarily required to bear these losses itself and may not be able to fully insure itself to cover these risks. Each of these risks could materially affect the company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Separation and related transactions may expose Corteva to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws Although the company received a solvency opinion from an investment bank confirming that the company and DuPont were each adequately capitalized following the Distribution, the Separation could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. In connection with fraudulent conveyances or transfers are generally defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. Any unpaid creditor could claim that DuPont did not receive fair consideration or reasonably equivalent value in the Separation and Corteva Distribution, and that the Separation and Corteva Distribution left DuPont insolvent or with unreasonably small capital or that DuPont intended or believed it would incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured. Additionally, under its indemnity provisions of the Separation Agreement, the company could find its liabilities increased as a result of a court concluding that Historical 24 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued DuPont, Historical Dow or DowDuPont executed a fraudulent conveyance in connection with divestitures and spin-offs of any one of their historical operations, including Chemours. If a court were to agree with such a plaintiff, then such court could void the Separation and Distribution as a fraudulent transfer or impose substantial liabilities on Corteva, which could materially adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, the court could return some of Corteva’s assets or shares of Corteva common stock to DuPont, provide DuPont with a claim for money damages against Corteva in an amount equal to the difference between the consideration received by DuPont and the fair market value of Corteva at the time of the Corteva Distribution, or require Corteva to fund liabilities of other companies involved in the Internal Reorganization and Business Realignment for the benefit of creditors. The Distribution is also subject to review under state corporate Distribution statutes. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), a corporation may only pay dividends to its stockholders either (i) out of its surplus (net assets minus capital) or (ii) if there is no such surplus, out of its net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. Although the Distribution was made out of DowDuPont’s surplus and the company received an opinion that DowDuPont has adequate surplus under Delaware law to declare the dividend of Corteva common stock in connection with the Corteva Distribution, there can be no assurance that a court will not later determine that some or all of the Corteva Distribution was unlawful. If the Corteva Distribution, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then the company could be subject to significant tax and indemnification liability and stockholders receiving Corteva common stock in the Corteva Distribution could be subject to significant tax liability. DowDuPont received an IRS Tax Ruling and tax opinion that, among other things, the Corteva Distribution and certain related transactions will qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code). The IRS Ruling and tax opinion relied on certain facts, assumptions, and undertakings, and certain representations from DowDuPont and Corteva, regarding the past and future conduct of both respective businesses and other matters.  Despite the tax opinion and the IRS Ruling, the IRS could determine on audit that the Distribution or certain related transactions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the Distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions of the tax opinion. If the Corteva Distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, then a stockholder of DuPont that received shares of Corteva common stock would be treated as having received a distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares (including any fractional shares sold on behalf of such stockholder) on the distribution date and could incur significant income tax liabilities. Such distribution would be taxable to such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of DuPont’s current and accumulated earnings and profits, which would include any earnings and profits attributable to the gain recognized by DuPont on the taxable distribution and could include earnings and profits attributable to certain internal transactions preceding the Corteva Distribution. Any amount that exceeded DuPont’s earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in its shares of DuPont stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a gain on the DuPont stock. In the event the Distribution is ultimately determined to be taxable, DuPont would recognize corporate level taxable gain on the Distribution in an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of Corteva common stock distributed to DuPont stockholders on the distribution date over DuPont’s tax basis in such stock. In addition, if certain related transactions fail to qualify for tax-free treatment under U.S. federal, state, local tax and/or foreign tax law, Corteva and DuPont could incur significant tax liabilities under U.S. federal, state, local and/or foreign tax law. Generally, taxes resulting from the failure of the Separation and Distributions to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be imposed on DuPont or DuPont stockholders. Under the Tax Matters Agreement that the company entered into with DuPont and Dow, subject to the exceptions described below, the company is generally obligated to indemnify DuPont against such taxes imposed on DuPont. However, if the Distributions fail to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes for certain reasons relating to the overall structure of the Merger and the Distributions, then under the Tax Matters Agreement, DuPont and Dow would share the tax liability resulting from such failure in accordance with their relative equity values on the first full trading day following the Dow Distribution. The company and DuPont would share any liabilities of DuPont described in the preceding sentence in accordance with its relative equity values on the first full trading day following the Corteva Distribution. Furthermore, under the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement, the company also generally will be responsible for any taxes imposed on DuPont or Dow that arise from the failure of the Corteva Distribution to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code or the 25 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued failure of certain related transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to its, or its affiliates’, stock, assets or business, or any breach of its representations made in any representation letter provided to its counsel in connection with the tax opinion. DuPont and Dow will be separately responsible for any taxes imposed on Corteva that arise from the failure of the Corteva Distribution to qualify as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code or the failure of certain related transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to such company’s or its affiliates’ stock, assets or business, or any breach of such company’s representations made in connection with the IRS Ruling or in the representation letter provided to counsel in connection with the tax opinion. Events triggering an indemnification obligation under the tax matters agreement include events occurring after the Corteva Distribution that cause DuPont to recognize a gain under Section 355(e) of the Code, as discussed further below. Such tax amounts could be significant. To the extent that the company is responsible for any liability under the tax matters agreement, there could be a material adverse impact on Corteva’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. The company agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the transactions separating it from DowDuPont in the United States, which may reduce Corteva’s strategic and operating flexibility. The company’s ability to engage in certain transactions is limited or restricted to preserve, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the Distributions by DowDuPont, and certain aspects of the Internal Reorganization and Business Realignment. As a result of these limitations, under the Tax Matters Agreement that the company entered into with DuPont and Dow, for the two-year period following the Distribution, the company is prohibited, except in certain circumstances, from, among other things: • entering into any transaction resulting in acquisitions of a certain percentage of its assets, whether by merger or otherwise; • dissolving, merging, consolidating or liquidating; • undertaking or permitting any transaction relating to Corteva stock, including issuances, redemptions or repurchases other than certain, limited, permitted issuances and repurchases; • affecting the relative voting rights of Corteva stock, whether by amending Corteva’s certificate of incorporation or otherwise; or • ceasing to actively conduct its business. These restrictions may significantly limit Corteva’s ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that the company may believe to otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders or that might increase the value of its business. The IRS may assert that the Merger causes the Distributions and other related transactions to be taxable to DuPont, in which case the company could be subject to significant indemnification liability. Even if the Distributions otherwise constitutes a tax-free transaction to stockholders under Section 355 of the Code, DuPont may be required to recognize corporate level tax on the Distributions and certain related transactions under Section 355(e) of the Code if, as a result of the Merger or other transactions considered part of a plan with the Distributions, there is a 50 percent or greater change of ownership in DuPont or Corteva. In connection with the Merger, DowDuPont received a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the proper time, manner and methodology for measuring common ownership in the stock of DowDuPont, Historical DuPont and Historical Dow for purposes of determining whether there has been a 50 percent or greater change of ownership under Section 355(e) of the Code as a result of the Merger. The tax opinion relied on the continued validity of the private letter ruling, as well as certain factual representations from DowDuPont as to the extent of common ownership in the stock of Historical DuPont and Historical Dow immediately prior to the Merger. Based on the representations made by DowDuPont as to the common ownership in the stock of Historical DuPont and Historical Dow immediately prior to the Merger and assuming the continued validity of the IRS Ruling, the tax opinion concluded that there was not a 50 percent or greater change of ownership in DowDuPont, Historical DuPont or Historical Dow for purposes of Section 355(e) as a result of the Merger. Notwithstanding the tax opinion and the IRS Ruling, the IRS could determine that the Distributions or a related transaction should nevertheless be treated as a taxable transaction to DuPont if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings of DowDuPont is not correct or that the Distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions in the tax opinion that are not covered by the private letter ruling. If DuPont is required to recognize corporate level tax on either of the Distributions and certain related transactions under Section 355(e) of the Code, then under the Tax Matters Agreement, the company may be required to indemnify DuPont and/or 26 Part I ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS, continued Dow for all or a portion of such taxes, which could be a material amount, if such taxes were the result of either direct or indirect transfers of Corteva common stock or certain reasons relating to the overall structure of the Merger and the Distributions. The company is subject to continuing contingent tax-related liabilities of DowDuPont following the Distribution. There are several significant areas where the liabilities of DowDuPont may become Corteva’s obligations either in whole or in part. For example, under the Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of DowDuPont’s consolidated tax reporting group during any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the Distribution is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group for such taxable period. Additionally, to the extent that any subsidiary of Corteva was included in the consolidated tax reporting group of either Historical DuPont or Historical Dow for any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective date of the Merger, such subsidiary is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group of Historical DuPont or Historical Dow, as applicable, for such taxable period. In connection with the Distributions, on April 1, 2019, the company entered into the Tax Matters Agreement with DuPont and Dow that allocates the responsibility for prior period consolidated taxes among Corteva, DuPont and Dow.  If DuPont or Dow were unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, however, the company could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes, and such amounts could be significant. Other provisions of federal, state, local, or foreign law may establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. Corteva’s unaudited pro forma combined financial information is not necessarily representative of the results the company would have achieved as an independent, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of its future results. The  unaudited pro forma financial information of Corteva included herein (refer to supplemental unaudited pro forma financial statements on page 51) may not reflect what Corteva’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would have been had the company been an independent, publicly traded company comprised solely of DowDuPont’s agriculture business during the periods presented. This is primarily because: • The historical financial information of Corteva does not reflect the changes that the company experienced in connection with the Separation, including the Distribution. • Prior to the Separation, Corteva’s business was operated under the corporate umbrella of DowDuPont. As part of the DowDuPont corporate organization, Corteva’s business was principally operated by Historical DuPont, with certain portions of its business being operated by Historical Dow as part of its internal corporate organization, rather than being operated as part of a consolidated agriculture business. • The historical financial information of Corteva reflects only corporate expenses of Historical DuPont and allocated corporate expenses from Historical Dow, and thus is not necessarily representative of the costs the company incurred for similar services as an independent company following the Separation. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information included in this annual report is based on a number of estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions may prove to be inaccurate, and accordingly, Corteva’s unaudited pro forma financial information should not be assumed to be indicative of what the company’s financial condition or results of operations actually would have been as a standalone company during the time periods presented nor to be a reliable indicator of what its financial condition or results of operations actually may be in the future.  For additional information about the unaudited pro forma financial statements, Historical DuPont’s past financial performance and the basis of presentation of Corteva’s financial statements, see Corteva’s consolidated financial statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 27 Part I

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains certain estimates and forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and may be identified by their use of words like “plans,” “expects,” “will,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “intends,” “projects,” “estimates,” "outlook," or other words of similar meaning. All statements that address expectations or projections about the future, including statements about Corteva’s strategy for growth, product development, regulatory approval, market position, liquidity, anticipated benefits of recent acquisitions, timing of anticipated benefits from restructuring actions, outcome of contingencies, such as litigation and environmental matters, expenditures, and financial results, as well as expected benefits from, the separation of Corteva from DowDuPont, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements and other estimates are based on certain assumptions and expectations of future events which may not be accurate or realized. Forward-looking statements and other estimates also involve risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond Corteva’s control. While the list of factors presented below is considered representative, no such list should be considered to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. Unlisted factors may present significant additional obstacles to the realization of forward-looking statements. Consequences of material differences in results as compared with those anticipated in the forward-looking statements could include, among other things, business disruption, operational problems, financial loss, legal liability to third parties and similar risks, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Corteva’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of the important factors that could cause Corteva’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any such forward-looking statements include: (i) failure to obtain or maintain the necessary regulatory approvals for some of Corteva’s products; (ii) failure to successfully develop and commercialize Corteva’s pipeline; (iii) effect of the degree of public understanding and acceptance or perceived public acceptance of Corteva’s biotechnology and other agricultural products; (iv) effect of changes in agricultural and related policies of governments and international organizations; (v) effect of competition and consolidation in Corteva’s industry; (vi) effect of competition from manufacturers of generic products; (vii) costs of complying with evolving regulatory requirements and the effect of actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements; (viii) effect of climate change and unpredictable seasonal and weather factors; (ix) risks related to oil and commodity markets; (x) competitor’s establishment of an intermediary platform for distribution of Corteva's products; (xi) impact of Corteva's dependence on third parties with respect to certain of its raw materials or licenses and commercialization; (xii) effect of industrial espionage and other disruptions to Corteva’s supply chain, information technology or network systems; (xiii) effect of volatility in Corteva’s input costs; (xiv) failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the internal reorganizations taken by DowDuPont in connection with the spin-off of Corteva and other cost savings initiatives; (xv) failure to raise capital through the capital markets or short-term borrowings on terms acceptable to Corteva; (xvi) failure of Corteva’s customers to pay their debts to Corteva, including customer financing programs; (xvii) increases in pension and other post-employment benefit plan funding obligations; (xviii) risks related to the indemnification obligations of legacy EID liabilities in connection with the separation of Corteva; (xix) effect of compliance with laws and requirements and adverse judgments on litigation; (xx) risks related to Corteva’s global operations; (xxi) failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances and other portfolio actions; failure to enforce; (xxii) risks related to COVID-19;  (xxiii) risks related to activist stockholders; (xxiv) Corteva’s intellectual property rights or defend against intellectual property claims asserted by others; (xxv) effect of counterfeit products; (xxvi) Corteva’s dependence on intellectual property cross-license agreements;  and (xxvii) other risks related to the Separation from DowDuPont. Additionally, there may be other risks and uncertainties that Corteva is unable to currently identify or that Corteva does not currently expect to have a material impact on its business. Where, in any forward-looking statement or other estimate, an expectation or belief as to future results or events is expressed, such expectation or belief is based on the current plans and expectations of Corteva’s management and expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no assurance that the expectation or belief will result or be achieved or accomplished. Corteva disclaims and does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as required by applicable law. A detailed discussion of some of the significant risks and uncertainties which may cause results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section titled “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). 35 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Overview Refer to pages 3 - 5 for a discussion of the DowDuPont Merger of Equals, the Internal Reorganizations, and the Business Separations. Basis of Presentation Dow AgroSciences ("DAS") Common Control Combination The transfer or conveyance of DAS to Corteva was treated as a transfer of entities under common control.  As such, the company recorded the assets, liabilities, and equity of DAS on its balance sheet at their historical basis. Transfers of businesses between entities under common control requires the financial statements to be presented as if the transaction had occurred at the point at which common control first existed (the "Merger Effectiveness Time," or August 31, 2017 at 11:59 pm ET). As a result, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto include the results of DAS as of the Merger Effectiveness Time.  See Note 1 - Background and Basis of Presentation and Note 4 - Common Control Business Combination, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Divestiture of EID ECP The transfer of EID ECP meets the criteria for discontinued operations and as such, results of operations are presented as discontinued operations and have been excluded from continuing operations for all periods presented.  The comprehensive income (loss), stockholder's equity and cash flows related to EID ECP have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), Consolidated Statements of Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, respectively, for 2019 and all prior periods. Amounts related to EID ECP are consistently included or excluded from the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements based on the respective financial statement line item.  See Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Divestiture of EID Specialty Products Entities The transfer of the EID Specialty Products Entities meets the criteria for discontinued operations and as such, results of operations are presented as discontinued operations and have been excluded from continuing operations for all periods presented.  The comprehensive income (loss), stockholder's equity and cash flows related to the EID Specialty Products Entities have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss), Consolidated Statements of Equity and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, respectively, for 2019 and all prior periods.  Amounts related to the EID Special Products Entities are consistently included or excluded from the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements based on the respective financial statement line item.  See Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results In addition to the Analysis of Operations discussion based on the GAAP as reported results, the following includes a supplemental Analysis of Operations discussion reflecting unaudited pro forma financial information, prepared in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X that was in effect prior to recent amendments.  This unaudited pro forma financial information, for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 assumes the Merger, the debt retirement transactions related to paying off or retiring portions of EID’s existing debt liabilities (as discussed in Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements), and the separation and distribution to DowDuPont stockholders of all the outstanding shares of Corteva common stock as if they had been consummated on January 1, 2016. For additional information, see the Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Information in this section. 36 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Overview The following is a summary of results from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020: • The company reported net sales of $14,217 million, an increase of 3 percent versus the year ended December 31, 2019, reflecting a 5 percent increase in volume and a 3 percent increase in local price, partially offset by a 5 percent decline in currency. Volume and price gains were driven by continued penetration of new products. • Cost of goods sold ("COGS") totaled $8,507 million, down from $8,575 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, primarily driven by currency benefits, $272 million of amortization of inventory step-up included in the year ended December 31, 2019 and ongoing cost and productivity actions, partially offset by increased volumes and higher input costs. • Restructuring and asset related charges - net were $335 million, an increase from $222 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The year ended December 31, 2020 included $159 million of non-cash accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense related to Roundup Ready 2 Yield ® and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend ® herbicide tolerance traits. • There were no integration and separation costs in the year ended December 31, 2020, as compared to $744 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. • The benefit from income taxes on continuing operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 includes a $(182) million tax benefit associated with the recognition of an elective cantonal component of the recent enactment of the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing ("Swiss Tax Reform") and a tax benefit of $(51) million related to a return to accrual adjustment associated with an elective change in accounting method for the 2019 tax year impact of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 's (“The Act”) foreign tax provisions. • Income from continuing operations after income taxes was $756 million, as compared to a loss of $(270) million for the year ended December 31, 2019. • Operating EBITDA was $2,087 million, up from $1,987 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, driven by volume and price gains in both seed and crop protection, as well as ongoing execution on cost and productivity actions.  The company realized cost and productivity savings of approximately $230 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, which were mostly offset by higher input costs and investments to fund growth and advance the pipeline. Currency net of pricing was a $180 million headwind, inclusive of $150 million in pricing actions. Refer to page 59 for further discussion of the company's Non-GAAP financial measures. In addition to the financial highlights above, the following events occurred during or subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2020: • The company returned more than $660 million to shareholders during the year ended December 31, 2020 under its previously announced share repurchase program and through common stock dividends. • On February 1, 2021, Corteva approved restructuring actions designed to right-size and optimize footprint and organizational structure according to the business needs in each region with the focus on driving continued cost improvement and productivity. Corteva expects to record total pre-tax restructuring and asset-related charges of approximately $130 million to $170 million, comprised of approximately $40 million to $50 million of severance and related benefit costs, $40 million to $60 million of asset related charges, $10 million to $15 million of asset retirement obligations and $40 million to $45 million of costs related to contract terminations. Future cash payments related to this charge are anticipated to be approximately $90 million to $110 million, primarily related to the payment of severance and related benefits, asset retirement obligations, and costs related to contract terminations. The restructuring actions associated with this charge are expected to be substantially complete in 2021. 37 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Priorities The company believes the following priorities will enable it to create significant value for its customers while delivering strong financial returns to its shareholders: • Deliver organic sales growth by continuing to leverage its industry-leading innovation pipeline to introduce new proprietary seed traits and crop protection formulations that anticipate and meet evolving customer needs and utilizing its comprehensive multi-channel, multi-brand strategy to align its brands and capabilities across different sales channels. • Drive actions to expand margins in the company's reportable segments by integrating its operations and continuing to drive operating efficiencies, enabling a streamlined, efficient and focused organization while working to achieve a best-in-class cost structure and creating a strong culture based on productivity. • Accelerate the return of cash to shareholders by executing on its authorized share repurchase programs as the company repurchased $300 million under its share buyback plan since the Corteva Distribution and expects to repurchase the remaining $700 million in 2021. The timing, price and volume of purchases will be based on market conditions, relevant securities laws and other factors. 38 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Analysis of Operations COVID-19 Pandemic On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization (“WHO”) declared the novel coronavirus disease (“COVID-19”) a pandemic.  Since the early days of the coronavirus outbreak, Corteva has taken steps to help protect the health and safety of its employees, customers, vendors, and stakeholders. Corteva has engaged crisis management teams at the country, regional and global level, and its Integrated Health Services Pandemic & Infectious Disease Planning Team has been monitoring the situation and developing guidelines and protocols that have been communicated to all of its employees globally. Overwhelmingly, countries and U.S. states have considered agriculture an “essential business”; therefore, Corteva is not subject to many of the restrictions imposed by the government, particularly on non-essential businesses, which, in certain cases, includes ordering businesses to close or limit operations or people to stay at home. While the company's business has experienced some localized operating disruptions, particularly around sourcing and logistics, these disruptions have been temporary and have not materially impacted the company's financial results. Additionally, the company has implemented mitigating strategies to limit the impact of supply chain disruptions, including leveraging the company’s ability to use a multi-sourcing strategy and source key raw materials from multiple suppliers and countries. Furthermore, the company implemented remote work arrangements for non-essential employees and restricted business travel effective mid-March 2020, and to date, these arrangements have not materially affected the company's ability to maintain its business operations, including the operation of financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure controls and procedures. The global health crisis caused by COVID-19 and the related government actions and stay at home orders have negatively impacted economic activity and increased political instability across the globe. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the company observed declining demand and price reductions in the oil and gas sector as business and consumer activity decelerated across the globe, which had impacted the price of corn. When COVID-19 is demonstrably contained, the company anticipates a rebound in economic activity, depending on the rate, pace, and effectiveness of the containment efforts deployed by various national, state, and local governments. Corteva will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions altering its business operations that it determines are in the best interests of its stakeholders, or as required by federal, state, or local authorities. It is not clear what the potential effects any such alterations or modifications may have on the company's business, including the effects on its customers, employees, and prospects, or on its financial results for 2021 and beyond. With the increasing uncertainty in global markets, the company will continue to monitor various factors that could impact mid-term forecasted cash flows of the business, including, but not limited to currency fluctuations, expectations of future planted area (as influenced by consumer demand, ethanol markets and government policies and regulations), trade and purchasing of commodities globally and relative commodity prices. Execute to Win Productivity Program During the first quarter of 2020, Corteva approved restructuring actions designed to improve productivity through optimizing certain operational and organizational structures primarily related to the Execute to Win Productivity Program. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the company recorded net pre-tax restructuring charges of $176 million, comprised of $113 million of asset related charges, and $63 million of severance and related benefit costs. The Company does not anticipate any additional material charges from the Execute to Win Program as actions associated with this charge are substantially complete. Future cash payments related to this charge are anticipated to be approximately $77 million, primarily related to the payment of severance and related benefits and asset retirement obligations. The company expects $130 million of savings to be achieved on a run rate basis by 2023. See Note 7 - Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. Share Buyback Plan On June 26, 2019, Corteva, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program to purchase Corteva, Inc.'s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, without an expiration date. The company repurchased $300 million under its share buyback plan since the Corteva Distribution and expects to repurchase the remaining $700 million in 2021. The timing, price and volume of purchases will be based on market conditions, relevant securities laws and other factors. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the company purchased and retired 8,503,000 shares for a total cost of $275 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the company purchased and retired 824,000 shares in the open market for a total cost of $25 million. 39 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Impact From Previously Enacted Tariffs In 2018, certain countries where the company’s products are manufactured, distributed or sold previously enacted tariffs on certain products. The tariffs contributed to an expected shift to soybeans from corn in Latin America and pressured North American farmer margins. These expectations were reflected in the revised long-term cash flow projections for the company's agriculture reporting unit in 2018, as discussed in Note 15 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  In January 2020 the United States and China signed "phase one" of a trade agreement ("China Trade Agreement") and the United States ("U.S."), Mexico and Canada ratified the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement ("USMCA"). On July 2, 2020, the USMCA went into effect. The China Trade Agreement commits China to purchase at least $40 billion worth of U.S. farm goods annually and for China to reduce non-tariff barriers to agriculture products such as poultry and feed additives, as well as approval of biotechnology products. Additionally, the China Trade Agreement includes stronger intellectual property protections and the elimination of any pressure for foreign companies to transfer technology to Chinese firms as a condition of market access.  While the USMCA will replace the North America Free Trade Agreement, it is not a one-for-one replacement. It is designed to modernize trade rules in North America, ensure open markets, protect innovations for a majority of U.S. goods, and enhance sanitary/phytosanitary standards. The company expects the impacts of these agreements to overall be positive for demand for U.S. agriculture products. Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“The Act”) was enacted. The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent, required companies to pay a one-time transition tax (“transition tax”) on earnings of foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, created new provisions related to foreign sourced earnings, eliminated the domestic manufacturing deduction and moved to a territorial system. As of December 31, 2018, the company had completed its accounting for the tax effects of The Act. As a result of The Act, the company remeasured its U.S. federal deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, which is generally 21 percent. The company recorded a cumulative benefit of $(2,847) million (which includes a $(34) million benefit for the year ended December 31, 2018) to provision for (benefit from) income taxes on continuing operations in the company's Consolidated Statement of Operations with respect to the remeasurement of the company's deferred tax balances. Additionally, the company recorded a cumulative charge of $928 million (which includes a $182 million charge for the year ended December 31, 2018) to provision for (benefit from) income taxes on continuing operations with respect to the one-time transition tax. For tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, The Act introduced new provisions for U.S. taxation of certain global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”). The Company has made the policy election to record any liability associated with GILTI in the period in which it is incurred. Additional details related to The Act can be found in Note 10 - Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. DowDuPont Agriculture Division Restructuring Program During the fourth quarter of 2018 and in connection with the ongoing integration activities, DowDuPont approved restructuring actions to simplify and optimize certain organizational structures in preparation for the Business Separations. From inception-to-date, the company recorded total net pre-tax restructuring charges of $70 million, comprised of $61 million of severance and related benefit costs and $9 million of asset-related charges. The actions related to this program were complete in 2019. See Note 7 - Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. DowDuPont Cost Synergy Program In September and November 2017, DowDuPont and EID approved post-merger restructuring actions under the DowDuPont Cost Synergy Program (the “Synergy Program”), adopted at the time by the DowDuPont Board of Directors. The Synergy Program was designed to integrate and optimize the organization following the Merger and in preparation for the Business Separations. The company recorded net pre-tax restructuring charges of $845 million from inception-to-date under the Synergy Program, consisting of severance and related benefit costs of $317 million, contract termination costs of $193 million, and asset-related charges of $335 million. Actions associated with the Synergy Program, including employee separations, are substantially complete. The company anticipates including cumulative savings associated with these actions within its cost synergy commitment of $1.2 billion through 2021. See Note 7 - Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. 40 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Net Sales 2020 versus 2019 Net sales were $14,217 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to $13,846 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. Volume increased 5 percent versus the year-ago period, primarily driven by sales of new and differentiated products globally and across both segments. Local price grew 3 percent on a full-year basis, with higher prices in all regions, led by Latin America partly to offset currency. Currency represented a headwind of 5 percent, led by the impact of the Brazilian Real. 2019 versus 2018 Net sales were $13,846 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to $14,287 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by a 3 percent decline in currency.  Unfavorable currency impacts were primarily driven by the Brazilian Real and the Euro.  Volume was flat as strong demand for new product and gains in corn in EMEA were offset by significant weather-related planting delays in North America, resulting in lost spring applications of crop protection products and a reduction in planted area for soybeans.  Pricing gains from new product launches and favorable mix in Latin America were offset by competitive pricing pressure, increases in replant, and increased grower incentive program discounts in North America. 41 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued COGS 2020 versus 2019 COGS was $8,507 million (60 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $8,575 million (62 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by currency benefits, lack of inventory step-up in 2020 as compared to $272 million recognized in 2019, and ongoing cost and productivity actions. The decrease was partially offset by increased volumes, higher input costs in both seed and crop protection and higher royalties in seed. Amortization of inventory step-up was 2 percent of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019. COGS was $8,507 million (60 percent of net sales) on an as reported basis for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $8,386 million (61 percent of net sales) on a pro forma basis for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was driven by increased volumes, higher input costs in both seed and crop protection and higher royalties in seed, partially offset by the above noted currency benefits and ongoing cost and productivity actions. 2019 versus 2018 COGS was $8,575 million (62 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $9,948 million (70 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by lower amortization of remaining inventory step up compared to the prior year ($272 million in 2019 compared to $1,554 million in 2018). The amortization of inventory step-up was 2 percent and 11 percent of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The remaining COGS decrease was primarily driven by lower volumes as a result of weather-related planting delays in North America, cost synergies and a currency benefit, partially offset by higher input costs for both seed and crop protection. On a pro forma basis, COGS was $8,386 million (61 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $8,449 million (59 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The decrease was primarily driven by lower volumes as a result of weather-related planting delays in North America, cost synergies and a currency benefit, partially offset by higher input costs for both seed and crop protection. The increase was due to higher input costs for both seed and crop protection, partially offset by cost synergies. 42 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Research and Development Expense ("R&D") 2020 versus 2019 R&D expense was $1,142 million (8 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $1,147 million (8 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The decrease was primarily driven by currency benefits and ongoing cost and productivity actions, partially offset by increased investments to support new products in crop protection. 2019 versus 2018 R&D expense was $1,147 million (8 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $1,355 million (9 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily driven by cost synergies and additional actions taken to curtail spending. Pro forma R&D expense was $1,147 million (8 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $1,352 million (9 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The decrease was primarily driven by the factors described above. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses ("SG&A") 2020 versus 2019 SG&A was $3,043 million (21 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $3,065 million (22 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by currency benefits and ongoing cost and productivity actions taken to curtail spending, partially offset by higher commissions and selling expenses due to higher volumes, higher enterprise resource planning ("ERP") costs and higher product launch costs. 2019 versus 2018 SG&A was $3,065 million (22 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $3,041 million (21 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in performance-based compensation, an increase in sales commission rate increases and route to market changes in select markets, and settlement of a legal matter, partially offset by cost synergies. Pro forma SG&A expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $3,068 million (22 percent of net sales) compared to $3,042 million (21 percent of net sales) for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase was primarily driven by the factors described above. 43 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Amortization of Intangibles 2020 versus 2019 Intangible asset amortization was $682 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $475 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase was primarily driven by the full year impact of germplasm assets, which changed from an indefinite lived intangible asset to a definite lived with a useful life of 25 years in the fourth quarter of 2019. The remaining increase in amortization expense is primarily due to amortization of the trade name asset that was changed from an indefinite lived intangible asset to definite lived in the fourth quarter of 2020. Beginning in 2021, the company expects annual amortization expense to increase by approximately $55 million, as a result of the change in useful life for trade name asset. See Note 15 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information for above items. 2019 versus 2018 Intangible asset amortization was $475 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $391 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily driven by amortization of germplasm assets, which changed from an indefinite lived intangible asset to definite lived with a useful life of 25 years in fourth quarter of 2019. The remaining increase in amortization expense is primarily due to the reclassification of amounts from indefinite-lived in-process research and development ("IPR&D") to developed technology as a result of the company's launch of its Qrome ® corn hybrids following the receipt of regulatory approval from China. See Note 15 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information for above items. Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net 2020 versus 2019 Restructuring and asset related charges - net were $335 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $222 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The activity for the year ended December 31, 2020 was comprised of $176 million net charge related to the Execute to Win Productivity Program and $159 million of restructuring and asset related charges - net from non-cash accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense related to the Roundup Ready 2 Yield® and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend® herbicide tolerance traits. The $176 million net charge associated with the Execute to Win Productivity Program was comprised of $113 million of asset related charges and $63 million of severance and related benefit costs. 2019 versus 2018 Restructuring and asset related charges - net were $222 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $694 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The activity for the year ended December 31, 2019 was comprised of $144 million of asset related charges (discussed in the "Asset Impairment" section, below) and a $92 million net charge related to the Synergy Program, offset by a net benefit of $14 million related to the DowDuPont Agriculture Division Restructuring Program.  The $92 million net charge associated with the Synergy Program was comprised of $69 million of contract termination charges and $30 million of asset related charges, partially offset by a $7 million benefit on the reduction of severance and related benefit costs.  The $14 million net benefit associated with the DowDuPont Agriculture Division Restructuring Program included a $17 million benefit on the reduction of severance and related benefit costs, partially offset by $3 million of asset related charges. Asset Impairment For the year ended December 31, 2019, the company recognized a $144 million pre-tax ($110 million after-tax) non-cash impairment charge in restructuring and asset related charges - net in the company's Consolidated Statements of Operations related to certain IPR&D assets within the seed segment. See Note 7 - Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net, and Note 23 - Fair Value Measurements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 44 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued For the year ended December 31, 2018, the company recognized an $85 million pre-tax ($66 million after-tax) non-cash impairment charge in restructuring and asset related charges - net in the company's Consolidated Statements of Operations related to certain IPR&D assets within the seed segment. See Note 7 - Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net, and Note 23 - Fair Value Measurements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. For the year ended December 31, 2018, management determined the fair values of investments in nonconsolidated affiliates in China were below the carrying values and had no expectation the fair values would recover. As a result, management concluded the impairment was other than temporary and recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $41 million in restructuring and asset related charges - net in the company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, none of which is tax-deductible, for the year ended December 31, 2018. See Note 7 - Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net, and Note 23 - Fair Value Measurements, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Integration and Separation Costs 1. Beginning in the second quarter of 2019, this includes both integration and separation costs. Integration and separation costs were $744 million and $992 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. These costs primarily have consisted of financial advisory, information technology, legal, accounting, consulting, and other professional advisory fees associated with the preparation and execution of activities related to the Business Separations and the integration of EID’s Pioneer and Crop Protection businesses with DAS. Pro forma integration and separation costs were $632 million and $571 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The increase was primarily driven by an increase in financial advisory, information technology, legal, accounting, consulting, and other professional advisory fees associated with the preparation and execution of activities related to the Business Separations and the integration of EID’s Pioneer and Crop Protection businesses with DAS. Goodwill Impairment Charge The company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $4,503 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 related to a goodwill impairment test for its agriculture reporting unit. See Note 15 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 45 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Other Income - Net 2020 versus 2019 Other income - net was income of $212 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and income of $215 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in non-operating pension and other employment benefit credits was offset by higher net exchange loss as well as net losses on sales of businesses and other assets for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to net gains in 2019 and a change in miscellaneous income. Other income - net for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes a $(53) million loss on the expected sale of the La Porte site (see below for gains and losses on divestitures for the year ended December 31, 2019). See Note 9 - Supplementary Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2019 versus 2018 Other income - net was income of $215 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and income of $249 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in non-operating pension and other post employment credits and interest income, partially offset by a change in miscellaneous income and lower net exchange losses.  Additionally, other income - net for the year ended December 31, 2019 included gains on divestitures in the crop protection segment of approximately $70 million partially offset by a loss on a divestiture in the seed segment of $(24) million. The company routinely uses forward exchange contracts to offset its net exposures, by currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities of its operations. The objective of this program is to maintain an approximately balanced position in foreign currencies in order to minimize, on an after-tax basis, the effects of exchange rate changes. The net pre-tax exchange gains and losses are recorded in other income - net and the related tax impact is recorded in provision for (benefit from) income taxes on continuing operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 9 - Supplementary Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt The company recorded a loss from early extinguishment of debt $13 million and $81 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The loss for 2019 related to the difference between the redemption price and the par value of the Make Whole Notes, the Term Loan Facility, and the Special Mandatory Redemption ("SMR") Notes, partially offset by the write-off of unamortized step-up related to the fair value step-up of EID’s debt. The loss for 2018 was primarily related to the difference between the redemption price and the aggregate amount of the Tender Notes purchased in the Tender Offer, mostly offset by the write-off of unamortized step-up related to the fair value step-up of EID’s debt. Additional information regarding the company’s Tender Offer can be found on page 63 of this report and Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 46 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Interest Expense 2020 versus 2019 Interest expense was $45 million and $136 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The change was primarily driven by lower average debt balances as a result of the redemption/repayment transactions in the second quarter of 2019 related to paying off or retiring portions of EID’s existing debt liabilities (refer to Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and lower average interest rates. 2019 versus 2018 Interest expense was $136 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $337 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The change was primarily driven by lower average long-term debt balances during 2019 due to debt redemption/repayment transactions.  Pro forma interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $91 million compared to $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase was primarily driven by interest expense incurred subsequent to March 31, 2019 related to the Make Whole Notes, the Term Loan Facility and SMR Notes which were repaid and/or redeemed in the second quarter of 2019. (Benefit From) Provision for Income Taxes on Continuing Operations 2020 For the year ended December 31, 2020, the company’s effective tax rate of (12.0) percent on pre-tax income from continuing operations of $675 million was favorably impacted by a $(182) million tax benefit associated with the recognition of an elective cantonal component of the recent enactment of the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”), a $(51) million tax benefit related to a return to accrual adjustment associated with an elective change in accounting method for the 2019 tax year impact of The Act's foreign tax provisions, a $(14) million tax benefit related to a return to accrual adjustment to reflect a change in estimate on the impact of a tax law enactment in a foreign jurisdiction, as well as an additional $(14) million of net tax benefits associated with changes in accruals for certain prior year tax positions in various other jurisdictions. These benefits were partially offset by the impacts of unfavorable geographic mix of earnings, the tax impact of certain net exchange losses recognized on the re-measurement of the net monetary asset positions which were not deductible in their local jurisdictions, and a $19 million tax charge associated with a state tax valuation allowance in the U.S. based on a change in judgment about the realizability of a deferred tax asset. 2019 For the year ended December 31, 2019, the company’s effective tax rate of 14.6 percent on pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $(316) million was unfavorably impacted by a tax charge of $146 million related to the U.S. state blended tax rate changes associated with the Business Separations and a tax charge of $35 million related to application of The Act’s foreign tax 47 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued provisions. Other net unfavorable effective tax rate impacts included those related to the Argentine peso devaluation, integration and separation costs, non-tax-deductible amortization of the fair value step-up in inventories as a result of the Merger, the tax impact of certain net exchange losses recognized on the re-measurement of the net monetary asset positions which were not deductible in their local jurisdictions, as well as geographic mix of earnings. Those unfavorable impacts were partially offset by a tax benefit of $(102) million related to an internal legal entity restructuring associated with the Business Separations, tax benefits of $(38) million associated with the enactment of the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing (“Swiss Tax Reform”), a $(34) million tax benefit associated with the release of a valuation allowance recorded against the net deferred tax asset position of a legal entity in Switzerland, as well as $(19) million of tax benefits associated with changes in accruals for certain prior year tax positions and reductions in the company’s unrecognized tax benefits due to the closure of various tax statutes of limitations. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the company’s effective tax rate was 3.7 percent on pro forma pre-tax income from continuing operations of $27 million.  The pro forma pre-tax income from continuing operations excludes pre-tax charges of $205 million, $45 million and $93 million primarily related to the removal of amortization of the fair value-step-up of inventories as a result of the Merger, removal of interest expense related to paying off or retiring portions of EID’s existing debt liabilities (as discussed in Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements), and removal of expenses directly attributable to the Separation, respectively.  The pro forma provision for income taxes on continuing operations excludes net tax benefits of $(36) million, $(10) million and $(1) million related to the above items, respectively. 2018 For the year ended December 31, 2018, the company’s effective tax rate of 0.5 percent on pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $(6,806) million was unfavorably impacted by the non-tax-deductible impairment charge for the agriculture reporting unit and corresponding $75 million tax charge associated with a valuation allowance recorded against the net deferred tax asset position of a legal entity in Brazil, costs associated with the Merger with Dow (including a $50 million net tax charge on repatriation activities to facilitate the Business Separations), a $164 million net tax charge related to completing its accounting for the tax effects of the Act (see Note 10 - Income Taxes, of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail), and the jurisdictional impacts related to the non-tax-deductible amortization of the fair value step-up in inventories as a result of the Merger. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the company’s effective tax rate was (8.7) percent on pro forma pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $(4,542) million.  The pro forma pre-tax loss excludes pre-tax charges of $1,554 million, $342 million, and $368 million, primarily related to the removal of amortization of the fair value-step-up of inventories as a result of the Merger, removal of interest expense and the related loss on early extinguishment of debt related to paying off or retiring portions of EID’s existing debt liabilities (as discussed in Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements), and removal of expenses directly attributable to the Separation, respectively.  The pro forma provision for income taxes on continuing operations excludes net tax benefits of $(295) million, $(78) million and $(53) million related to the above items, respectively. (Loss) Income from Discontinued Operations After Tax Chemours, DuPont, Corteva and EID Memorandum of Understanding On January 22, 2021, Chemours, DuPont, Corteva and EID entered into a binding memorandum of understanding containing a settlement to resolve legal disputes originating from the Delaware Litigation and Pending Arbitration, and to establish a cost sharing arrangement and escrow account to be used to support and manage potential future legacy per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (“PFAS”) liabilities arising out of pre-July 1, 2015 conduct (the “MOU”). The MOU replaces the 2017 amendment to the Chemours Separation Agreement.  For further discussion see Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 48 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued 2020 versus 2019 Loss from discontinued operations after income taxes was $(55) million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $(671) million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The year ended December 31, 2020 primarily reflects an after-tax charge of $(65) million as a result of the MOU, and the settlement of approximately 95 matters, as well as unfiled matters remaining in the Ohio MDL. See Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for further discussion. 2019 versus 2018 (Loss) income from discontinued operations after income taxes was $(671) million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $1,748 million for the year ended December 31, 2018. The change was primarily driven by a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1,102 million and adjustments of certain unrecognized tax benefits for positions taken on items from prior years from previously divested businesses, reflected in the year ended December 31, 2019. EID Analysis of Operations As discussed in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, to the EID Consolidated Financial Statements, EID is a subsidiary of Corteva, Inc. and continues to be a reporting company, subject to the requirements of the Exchange Act.  The below relates to EID only and is presented to provide an Analysis of Operations, only for the differences between EID and Corteva, Inc. Interest Expense 2020 versus 2019 EID’s interest expense was $145 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $242 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, the decrease was driven by the items noted on page 47, under the header "Interest Expense - 2020 versus 2019," and by lower interest expense incurred on the related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc.  See Note 2 - Related Party Transactions, to the EID Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 2019 versus 2018 EID’s interest expense was $242 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $337 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, driven by the items noted on page 47 under the header “Interest Expense - 2019 versus 2018,” partially offset by interest expense incurred on the related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc.  See Note 2 - Related Party Transactions, to the EID Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Provision for Income Taxes 2020 For the year ended December 31, 2020, EID had an effective tax rate of (18.3) percent on pre-tax income from continuing operations of $575 million, driven by the items noted on page 47, under the header “Provision for Income Taxes - 2020” and a tax benefit related to the interest expense incurred on the related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc.  See Note 3 - Income Taxes, to the EID Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 2019 For the year ended December 31, 2019, EID had an effective tax rate of 16.8 percent on pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $(422) million, driven by the items noted on page 47, under the header “Provision for Income Taxes - 2019” and a tax benefit related to the interest expense incurred on the related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc.  See Note 3 - Income Taxes, to the EID Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Corporate Outlook Global demand for agricultural products continues to be strong with some production challenges in key global producing regions, reducing global stocks of corn and soybeans.  The company anticipates a modest increase in the U.S. corn and soybean area, with the increase heavily biased towards soybeans. The company expects approximately 2 percent increase in net sales, driven by new product sales, partially offset by currency and portfolio headwinds. The company expects Operating EBITDA to increase approximately 15 - 20 percent and Operating Earnings Per Share to increase approximately 23 - 30 percent, driven by new product sales and ongoing cost savings and productivity actions, 49 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued partially offset by expected increased input costs due to rising commodity prices and expected unfavorable yields in Europe. Refer to further discussion of Non-GAAP metrics on pages 59 - 61. The above outlook does not contemplate any operational disruptions, significant changes in customers' demand or ability to pay, or further acceleration of currency impacts resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Corteva is not able to reconcile its forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to its most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, as it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty items outside of the company’s control, such as Significant Items, without unreasonable effort (refer to page 60 for Significant Items recorded in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018).  In February 2021 the company approved a restructuring program, in which it expects to record total pre-tax restructuring and asset-related charges of approximately $130 million to $170 million (for further discussion refer to page 37), with actions expected to be substantially completed in 2021; and, in 2021, the company expects non-operating benefits - net, to be approximately $930 million higher, as a result of amendments to the OPEB plans and a decrease in the discount rate, partly offset by a change in expected return on plan assets, and expects an increase in amortization expense. Refer to Note 15 - Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements and to the company's discussion on Long-term Employee Benefits on page 74.  Additionally, beginning January 1, 2020, the company recognizes non-cash accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense as a restructuring and asset related charge. For further discussion of accelerated prepaid royalty amortization refer to the Company's Critical Accounting Estimates for Prepaid Royalties on page 71. 50 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Supplemental Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information The supplemental unaudited pro forma statements of operations (the "unaudited pro forma statements of operations") for Corteva for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 give effect to the Merger, the debt retirement transactions related to paying off or retiring portions of EID’s existing debt liabilities (as discussed in Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements), and the separation and distribution to DowDuPont stockholders of all the outstanding shares of Corteva common stock as if they had been consummated on January 1, 2016. For the periods presented below, Corteva’s results for all periods prior to the Business Realignment and Internal Reorganization consist of the combined results of operations for Historical EID and DAS, and Corteva’s results for all periods after the Business Realignment and Internal Reorganization represent the consolidated balances of the company. The unaudited pro forma statements of operations below were prepared in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X that was in effect prior to recent amendments, and events that are not expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results (e.g., amortization of inventory step-up costs) are excluded. One-time transaction-related costs incurred prior to, or concurrent with, the closing of the Merger, the debt redemptions/repayments, and the Corteva Distribution are not included in the unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations through March 31, 2019. The unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations do not reflect restructuring or integration activities or other costs, that were not already reflected in GAAP results, following the separation and distribution transactions that may be incurred to achieve cost or growth synergies of Corteva. As no assurance can be made that these costs will be incurred or the growth synergies will be achieved, no adjustment has been made. The unaudited pro forma statements of operations have been presented for informational purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of what Corteva’s results of operations actually would have been had the above transactions been completed on January 1, 2016. In addition, the unaudited pro forma statements of operations do not purport to project the future operating results of the company. The unaudited pro forma statements of operations were based on and should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 51 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued 1. Represents the removal of amortization of EID’s agriculture business’ inventory step-up recognized in connection with the Merger, as the incremental amortization is directly attributable to the Merger and will not have a continuing impact. 2. Represents removal of interest expense related to the debt redemptions/repayments. 3. Adjustments directly attributable to the separations and distributions of Corteva, Inc. include the following: removal of  Telone ® Soil Fumigant business (“Telone ® ”) results (as Telone ® did not transfer to Corteva as part of the common control combination of DAS); impact from the distribution agreement entered into between Corteva and Dow that allows for Corteva to become the exclusive distributor of Telone ® products for Dow; elimination of one-time transaction costs directly attributable to the Corteva Distribution; the impact of certain manufacturing, leasing and supply agreements entered into in connection with the Corteva Distribution; and the related tax impacts of these items. 52 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued 1. Represents the removal of amortization of EID’s agriculture business’ inventory step-up recognized in connection with the Merger, as the incremental amortization is directly attributable to the Merger and will not have a continuing impact. 2. Represents removal of interest expense and loss on early extinguishment of debt related to the debt redemptions/repayments. 3. Adjustments directly attributable to the separations and distributions of Corteva, Inc. includes the following: removal of  Telone ® ; impact from the distribution agreement entered into between Corteva and Dow that allows for Corteva to become the exclusive distributor of Telone ® products for Dow; elimination of one-time transaction costs directly attributable to the Corteva Distribution; the impact of certain manufacturing, leasing and supply agreements entered into in connection with the Corteva Distribution; and the related tax impacts of these items. 53 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3 - Recent Accounting Guidance, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements. Segment Reviews The company operates in two reportable segments: seed and crop protection.  The company’s seed segment is a global leader in developing and supplying advanced germplasm and traits that produce optimum yield for farms around the world.  The segment offers trait technologies that improve resistance to weather, disease, insects and weeds, and trait technologies that enhance food and nutritional characteristics, and also provides digital solutions that assist farmer decision-making with a view to optimize product selection and, ultimately, maximize yield and profitability.  The segment competes in a wide variety of agricultural markets.  The crop protection segment serves the global agricultural input industry with products that protect against weeds, insects and other pests, and disease, and that improve overall crop health both above and below ground via nitrogen management and seed-applied technologies.  The segment is a leader in global herbicides, insecticides, nitrogen stabilizers and pasture and range management herbicides. Summarized below are comments on individual segment net sales and segment operating EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, segment operating EBITDA is calculated on a pro forma basis, as this is the manner in which the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") assesses performance and allocates resources. Pro forma adjustments used in the calculation of pro forma segment operating EBITDA were determined in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X that was in effect prior to recent amendments. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, these adjustments give effect to the Merger, the debt retirement transactions related to paying off or retiring portions of EID’s existing debt liabilities (as discussed in Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements), and the separation and distribution to DowDuPont stockholders of all the outstanding shares of Corteva common stock as if they had been consummated on January 1, 2016 (refer to supplemental unaudited pro forma financial statements on page 51). The company defines segment operating EBITDA as earnings (i.e., income from continuing operations before income taxes) before interest, depreciation, amortization, corporate expenses, non-operating costs-net and foreign exchange gains (losses), excluding the impact of significant items (including goodwill impairment charges).  Non-operating costs-net consists of non-operating pension and OPEB costs, tax indemnification adjustments, environmental remediation and legal costs associated with legacy EID businesses and sites. Tax indemnification adjustments relate to changes in indemnification balances, as a result of the application of the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement, between Corteva and Dow and/or DuPont that are recorded by the company as pre-tax income or expense. See Note 25 - Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details related to significant pre-tax (charges) benefits excluded from segment operating EBITDA.  All references to prices are based on local price unless otherwise specified. A reconciliation of segment operating EBITDA to income (loss) from continuing operations after income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 is included in Note 25 - Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 54 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued 1. The years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are presented on a Pro Forma Basis, prepared in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X that was in effect prior to recent amendments. 1. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. 55 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Seed Seed net sales were $7,756 million in 2020, up 2 percent from $7,590 million in 2019.  The increase was driven by a 5 percent increase in volume and 1 percent increase in local price, partially offset by a 4 percent unfavorable impact from currency. Volume growth was driven by the recovery of soybean planted area in North America and strong summer and Safrinha sales in Brazil. Global corn price grew 2 percent year over year, primarily driven by continued penetration from products such as Qrome ® and PowerCore ULTRA TM . North America soybean price increased 2 percent versus the year-ago period due to superior product performance and strong execution. Unfavorable currency impacts were led by the Brazilian Real. Seed operating EBITDA was $1,208 million in 2020, up 16 percent from pro forma operating EBITDA of $1,040 million in 2019. Favorable mix, volume gains and ongoing cost and productivity actions more than offset the unfavorable impact of currency, higher input costs and higher royalties. Seed net sales were $7,590 million in 2019, down from $7,842 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a 2 percent decline in currency and a 1 percent decline in volume. Local price was flat. Unfavorable currency impacts were primarily due to the Brazilian Real, Eastern European currencies, and the Euro. Volume gains in corn in EMEA were more than offset by significant weather-related planting delays in North America, leading to a reduction in planted area for soybeans, and multi-channel and multi-brand rationalization impacts in North America. Competitive pricing pressure in soybeans in the U.S. and increased soybean and corn replant in North America were offset by favorable mix and continued penetration of PowerCore Ultra® in Latin America. Seed pro forma operating EBITDA was $1,040 million in 2019, down 9 percent from $1,139 million in 2018.  Competitive pricing pressure, the unfavorable impact of currency, increased commissions and input costs, and volume declines more than offset cost synergies and ongoing productivity. 56 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued 1. The years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 are presented on a Pro Forma Basis, prepared in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X that was in effect prior to recent amendments. 1. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. 57 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Crop Protection Crop protection net sales were $6,461 million in 2020, up from $6,256 million in 2019. Sales gains were driven by a 7 percent increase in volume and a 4 percent increase in local price, which was partially offset by a 7 percent impact from currency and a 1 percent impact from portfolio. The increase in volume was driven by continued penetration of new products globally, with combined sales of $1 billion in 2020, up $265 million compared to the prior-year period, led by Enlist TM , Arylex TM , and Rinskor TM herbicides and Isoclast TM insecticide. Local price growth was driven by increases in Latin America to offset currency, coupled with favorable mix globally from new product launches. Unfavorable currency impacts were led by the Brazilian Real. The Company has recognized approximately $150 million in pricing to offset the weakening Brazilian Real for the full year. The portfolio impact was driven by divestitures in Asia Pacific and North America. Crop Protection operating EBITDA was $1,004 million in 2020, down from pro forma segment operating EBITDA of $1,066 million in 2019. Favorable mix, ongoing cost and productivity actions, together with volume gains, were more than offset by the negative impact of currency, increased investment to fund growth and higher input costs. Currency net of pricing was a $70 million headwind, inclusive of $150 million in pricing actions. Crop protection net sales were $6,256 million in 2019, down from $6,445 million in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to a 3 percent decline in currency and a 1 percent decline in portfolio, partially offset by a 1 percent increase in volume. Local price was flat. Unfavorable currency impacts were primarily due to Brazilian Real and the Euro. Volume gains driven by new product launches - including Enlist TM and Arylex TM herbicides and Isoclast TM insecticide - were partially offset by the unfavorable weather in North America, which resulted in lost spring applications.  Pricing gains from new products launches were offset by increased grower incentive program discounts in North America. The portfolio impact was driven by divestitures in North America and Asia Pacific. Crop Protection pro forma operating EBITDA was $1,066 million in 2019, down 1 percent from $1,074 million in 2018. Volume declines in North America, the unfavorable impact of currency, and higher input costs more than offset cost synergies, sales from new products, and ongoing productivity. 58 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Non-GAAP Financial Measures The company presents certain financial measures that do not conform to U.S. GAAP and are considered non-GAAP measures. These measures include Operating EBITDA and operating earnings per share. Management uses these measures internally for planning and forecasting, including allocating resources and evaluating incentive compensation. Management believes that these non-GAAP measures best reflect the ongoing performance of the company during the periods presented and provide more relevant and meaningful information to investors as they provide insight with respect to ongoing operating results of the company and a more useful comparison of year over year results. These non-GAAP measures supplement the company's U.S. GAAP disclosures and should not be viewed as an alternative to U.S. GAAP measures of performance. Furthermore, such non-GAAP measures may not be consistent with similar measures provided or used by other companies. Reconciliations for these non-GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP are provided below. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, information is on a pro forma basis and these non-GAAP measures are being reconciled to a pro forma GAAP financial measure prepared and presented in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X that was in effect prior to recent amendments, which are reconciled to the GAAP reported figures. See Article 11 Pro Forma Combined Statements of Operations on page 52. Operating EBITDA is defined as earnings (i.e., income from continuing operations before income taxes) before interest, depreciation, amortization, non-operating (benefits) costs - net and foreign exchange gains (losses), net, excluding the impact of significant items (including goodwill impairment charges). Non-operating (benefits) costs - net consists of non-operating pension and OPEB credits, tax indemnification adjustments and environmental remediation and legal costs associated with legacy businesses and sites of Historical DuPont. Tax indemnification adjustments relate to changes in indemnification balances, as a result of the application of the terms of the Tax Matters Agreement, between Corteva and Dow and/or DuPont that are recorded by the company as pre-tax income or expense. Operating earnings per share is defined as "Earnings per common share from continuing operations - diluted" excluding the after-tax impact of significant items (including goodwill impairment charges), the after-tax impact of non-operating (benefits) costs - net, and the after-tax impact of amortization expense associated with intangible assets existing as of the Separation from DowDuPont. Although amortization of the company's intangible assets is excluded from these non-GAAP measures, management believes it is important for investors to understand that such intangible assets contribute to revenue generation. Amortization of intangible assets that relate to past acquisitions will recur in future periods until such intangible assets have been fully amortized. Any future acquisitions may result in amortization of additional intangible assets. Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations after Income Taxes to Operating EBITDA 59 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Significant Items 1. The tax benefit impact of significant items for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes a net tax charge of $35 million related to application of the U.S. Tax Reform’s foreign tax provisions, a net tax charge of $146 million related to U.S. state blended tax rate changes associated with the Internal Reorganizations, and a net tax benefit of $(102) million related to an internal legal entity restructuring associated with the Internal Reorganizations.  Unless specifically addressed above, the income tax effect on significant items was calculated based upon the enacted tax laws and statutory income tax rates applicable in the tax jurisdiction(s) of the underlying non-GAAP adjustment. 2. The tax only significant item benefit for the year ended December 31, 2020 reflects the impacts of the recognition of an elective cantonal component of the recent enactment of the Federal Act on Tax Reform and AHV Financing ("Swiss Tax Reform") ($(182) million benefit) and a benefit due to an elective change in accounting method that alters the 2019 impact of the business separation on The Act's foreign tax provisions ($(29) million benefit), partially offset by a state tax valuation allowance in the U.S. based on a change in judgment about the realizability of a deferred tax asset ($19 million charge). The tax only significant item benefit for the year ended December 31, 2019 reflects the impacts of Swiss Tax Reform ($(38) million benefit) and the release of a tax valuation allowance recorded against the net deferred tax asset position of a Swiss legal entity ($(34) million benefit). The tax only significant item charge for the year ended December 31, 2018 reflects the impacts of U.S. Tax Reform ($361 million charge), a tax valuation allowance recorded against the net deferred tax asset position of a Brazilian legal entity ($75 million charge), as well as the Internal Reorganizations and Business Separations ($25 million charge), partially offset by impacts of the company's discretionary pension contribution ($(114) million benefit). Reconciliation of Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Attributable to Corteva and Earnings (Loss) Per Share of Common Stock from Continuing Operations - Diluted to Operating Earnings and Operating Earnings Per Share 60 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Liquidity & Capital Resources The company continually reviews its sources of liquidity and debt portfolio and occasionally may make adjustments to one or both to ensure adequate liquidity. The company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 were $3.8 billion, and $1.8 billion respectively.  Total debt at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 was $1.1 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively. See further information under Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The company's credit ratings impact its access to the debt capital markets and cost of capital.  The company remains committed to a strong financial position and strong investment-grade rating.  The company's long-term and short-term credit ratings assigned to EID are as follows: 1. In addition, Corteva, Inc. has been assigned a long-term issuer credit rating of A- with Stable outlook by Standard & Poor's and an Issuer Default Rating of A with Stable outlook by Fitch Ratings. 61 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued The company believes its ability to generate cash from operations and access to capital markets and commercial paper markets will be adequate to meet anticipated cash requirements to fund its operations, including seasonal working capital, capital spending, dividend payments, share repurchases and pension contributions. Corteva's strong financial position, liquidity and credit ratings will provide access as needed to capital markets and commercial paper markets to fund seasonal working capital needs. The company's liquidity needs can be met through a variety of sources, including cash provided by operating activities, commercial paper, syndicated credit lines, bilateral credit lines, long-term debt markets, bank financing and committed receivable repurchase facilities. Corteva considers the borrowing costs and lending terms when selecting the source to fund its operations and working capital needs. The company had access to approximately $6.4 billion in committed and uncommitted unused credit lines at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. These facilities provide support to meet the company’s short-term liquidity needs and for general corporate purposes which may include funding of discretionary and non-discretionary contributions to certain benefit plans, severance payments, repayment and refinancing of debt, working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases and redemptions of securities and funding Corteva's costs and expenses. On January 22, 2021, Chemours, DuPont, Corteva and EID entered into a binding memorandum of understanding containing a settlement to resolve legal disputes originating from the Delaware Litigation and Pending Arbitration, and to establish a cost sharing arrangement and escrow account to be used to support and manage potential future legacy per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (“PFAS”) liabilities arising out of pre-July 1, 2015 conduct (the “MOU”). The MOU replaces the 2017 amendment to the Chemours Separation Agreement (refer to Footnote 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). According to the terms of the cost sharing arrangement within the MOU, Corteva and DuPont together, on one hand, and Chemours, on the other hand, agreed to a 50-50 split of certain qualified expenses related to PFAS liabilities incurred over a term not to exceed twenty years or $4 billion of qualified spend and escrow account contributions in the aggregate. DuPont’s and Corteva’s 50% share under the MOU will be limited to $2 billion, including qualified expenses and escrow contributions (see below for discussion of escrow contributions). These expenses and escrow account contributions will be subject to the existing Letter Agreement, under which DuPont and Corteva will each bear 50% of the first $300 million (up to $150 million each), and thereafter DuPont bears 71% and Corteva bears the remaining 29%. In order to support and manage any potential future PFAS liabilities, the parties have also agreed to establish an escrow account. The MOU provides that (1) no later than each of September 30, 2021 and September 30, 2022, Chemours shall deposit $100 million into an escrow account and DuPont and Corteva shall together deposit $100 million in the aggregate into an escrow account and (2) no later than September 30 of each subsequent year through and including 2028, Chemours shall deposit $50 million into an escrow account and DuPont and Corteva shall together deposit $50 million in the aggregate into an escrow account. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the MOU, each party may be permitted to defer funding in any year (excluding 2021). Over this period, Chemours will deposit a total of $500 million in the account and DuPont and Corteva will deposit an additional $500 million pursuant to the terms of the Letter Agreement. Additionally, if on December 31, 2028, the balance of the escrow account (including interest) is less than $700 million, Chemours will make 50% of the deposits and DuPont and Corteva together will make 50% of the deposits necessary to restore the balance of the escrow account to $700 million. Such payments will be made in a series of consecutive annual equal installments commencing on September 30, 2029 pursuant to the escrow account replenishment terms as set forth in the MOU (refer to Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the MOU and Letter Agreement). In November 2018, EID entered into a $3.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility and a $3.0 billion three-year revolving credit facility (the “2018 Revolving Credit Facilities”).  The 2018 Revolving Credit Facilities became effective May 2019 in connection with the termination of the EID $4.5 billion Term Loan Facility and the $3.0 billion Revolving Credit Facility dated May 2014. Corteva, Inc. became a party to the 2018 Revolving Credit Facilities upon the Corteva Distribution. In March 2020, the company drew down $500 million under the three year revolving credit facility to finance its short term liquidity needs as a result of the volatility and increased borrowing costs of commercial paper resulting from the unstable market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and repaid that borrowing in full in June 2020. The Revolving Credit Facilities contain customary representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that are typical for companies with similar credit ratings. The Revolving Credit Facilities also contain a financial covenant requiring that the ratio of total indebtedness to total capitalization for Corteva and its consolidated subsidiaries not exceed 0.60. At December 31, 2020 the company was in compliance with these covenants. 62 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued In May 2020, EID issued $500 million of 1.70 percent Senior Notes due 2025 and $500 million of 2.30 percent Senior Notes due 2030 (the May 2020 Debt Offering). The proceeds of this offering are intended to be used for general corporate purposes, which may include discretionary contributions to the company’s U.S. principal pension plan and repayment of other indebtedness. The company's indenture covenants include customary limitations on liens, sale and leaseback transactions, and mergers and consolidations affecting manufacturing plants, mineral producing properties or research facilities located in the U.S. and the consolidated subsidiaries owning such plants, properties and facilities subject to certain limitations. The outstanding long-term debt also contains customary default provisions. The company has meaningful seasonal working capital needs based in part on providing financing to its customers. Working capital is funded through multiple methods including commercial paper, a receivable repurchase facility, factoring and cash from operations. In February 2020, in line with seasonal working capital requirements, the company entered into a committed receivable repurchase agreement of up to $1.3 billion (the "2020 Repurchase Facility") which expired in December 2020.  Under the 2020 Repurchase Facility, the company sold a portfolio of available and eligible outstanding customer notes receivables to participating institutions and simultaneously agreed to repurchase at a future date. In February 2021, the company entered into a new committed receivable repurchase facility of up to $1 billion (the "2021 Repurchase Facility") which expires in December 2021.  See further discussion of the 2021 Repurchase Facility in Note 27 - Subsequent Events, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The company has factoring agreements with third-party financial institutions primarily in Latin America to sell its trade receivables under both recourse and non-recourse agreements in exchange for cash proceeds in an effort to reduce its receivables risk.  For arrangements that include an element of recourse, the company provides a guarantee of the trade receivables in the event of customer default. Refer to Note 12 - Accounts and Notes Receivable - Net, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. The company also organizes agreements with third-party financial institutions who directly provide financing for select customers of its seed and crop protection products in each region. Terms of the third-party loans are less than a year and programs are renewed on an annual basis. In some cases, the company guarantees a portion of the extension of such credit to such customers. Refer to Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the company’s guarantees. Capacity Expansion During 2019, the company's Board of Directors authorized a capital investment of approximately $145 million to increase Spinosyns fermentation capacity by 30% to address global market growth in insecticides that handle chewing insects in specialty and row crops. The additional capacity was staged to come online over the subsequent next few years. Debt Redemptions/Repayments In the fourth quarter of 2018, EID offered to purchase for cash approximately $6.2 billion of outstanding debt securities from each registered holder of the applicable series of debt securities (the “Tender Offers”). EID retired $4.4 billion aggregate principal amount of such debt securities in connection with the Tender Offers, which expired on December 11, 2018. The retirement of these debt securities was funded with cash contributions from DowDuPont. 63 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued On March 22, 2019, EID issued notices of redemption in full of all of its outstanding notes (the “Make Whole Notes”) listed in the table below: The Make Whole Notes were redeemed on April 22, 2019 at the make-whole redemption prices set forth in the respective Make Whole Notes. On and after the date of redemption, the Make Whole Notes were no longer deemed outstanding, interest on the Make Whole Notes ceased to accrue and all rights of the holders of the Make Whole Notes were terminated.  For further information on the Make Whole Notes, see Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2016, EID entered into a credit agreement that provides for a three-year, senior unsecured term loan facility in the aggregate principal amount of $4.5 billion (as amended, from time to time, the "Term Loan Facility") under which EID could make up to seven term loan borrowings and amounts repaid or prepaid were not available for subsequent borrowings.  On May 2, 2019, EID terminated its Term Loan Facility and repaid the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $3 billion plus accrued and unpaid interest through and including May 1, 2019.  For further information on the termination of the Term Loan Facility, see Note 17 - Long-Term Debt and Available Credit Facilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In connection with the repayment of the Make Whole Notes and the Term Loan Facility, EID paid a total of $4.6 billion in the second quarter 2019, which included breakage fees and accrued and unpaid interest on the Make Whole Notes and Term Loan Facility.  The repayment of the Make Whole Notes and Term Loan Facility was funded with cash from operations and a contribution from DowDuPont. On May 7, 2019, DowDuPont publicly announced the record date in connection with the Corteva Distribution. In connection with such announcement, EID was required to redeem $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.200% Notes due 2020 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due 2020 (collectively, the Special Mandatory Redemption or “SMR Notes”) setting forth the date of redemption of the SMR Notes. The date of redemption was May 17, 2019 and EID paid a total of $2.0 billion, which included accrued and unpaid interest on the SMR Notes.  The company funded the payment with a contribution from DowDuPont.  Following the redemption, the SMR Notes are no longer outstanding and no longer bear interest and all rights of the holders of the SMR Notes have terminated. The company's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 are $3.8 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, of which $3.1 billion at December 31, 2020 and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2019, was held by subsidiaries in foreign countries, including United States territories. The Act required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on the untaxed earnings of foreign subsidiaries (see Note 10 - Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of The Act).  As a result of The Act's introduction of a 100 percent dividends received deduction regarding earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the Company has access to its cash outside the U.S. at a significantly reduced cost. Upon actual repatriation, such earnings could be subject to withholding taxes, foreign and/or U.S. state income taxes, and taxes resulting from the impact of foreign currency movements. The cash held by foreign subsidiaries is generally used to finance the subsidiaries' operational activities and future foreign investments. At December 31, 2020, management believed that it will have sufficient liquidity sources to fund operating needs in the U.S. with 64 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued global operating cash flows, borrowing capacity from existing committed credit facilities, and access to capital markets and commercial paper markets. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $2,064 million compared to $1,070 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven by an increase in net income, including a decrease in integration and separation costs, and improvement in working capital, partially offset by the absence of the net impact of cash earnings from EID ECP and EID Specialty Products entities, as a result of the Internal Reorganizations and Business Realignments in 2019. Cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $1,070 million compared to $483 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase in cash provided by operating activities was primarily driven by lower pension contributions in 2019, as a result of the company’s 2018 discretionary pension contribution, and a decrease in integration and separation costs, partially offset by the net impact of lower net income and working capital changes as a result of the Internal Reorganizations and Business Realignments in 2019. Cash used for investing activities was $(674) million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $(904) million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The change was due primarily due to lower capital expenditures driven by the Internal Reorganizations and Business Realignments in 2019, partially offset by higher net purchases of investments and lower proceeds from sales of property, businesses, and consolidated companies. Cash used for investing activities was $(904) million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $(505) million for the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily due to a decrease in net proceeds from sales and maturities of investments, partially offset by a reduction in capital expenditures as a result of the Internal Reorganizations and Business Realignments in 2019 and an increase in proceeds from sales of property, businesses and consolidated companies. Capital expenditures totaled $475 million, $1,163 million, and $1,501 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 includes capital expenditures of $497 million and $988 million, respectively, related to the EID Specialty Products and EID ECP (i.e., ethylene copolymers business, excluding its ethylene acrylic elastomers business) Entities. The company expects 2021 capital expenditures to be approximately $550 million. Cash provided by (used for) financing activities was $303 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $(2,929) million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The change was primarily due to lower payments on long-term debt, due to the 2019 debt retirement transactions related to paying off or retiring portions of EID’s existing debt liabilities (using a portion of the contributions from DowDuPont), lower net payment on borrowings (less than 90 days), the May 2020 Debt Offering, and the absence of distributions to DowDuPont (which in 2019 were used primarily to fund a portion of DowDuPont’s dividend payments). This was partially offset by dividends to Corteva stockholders, repurchases of Corteva common stock and payments 65 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued for the acquisition of noncontrolling interests. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2019 there was a transfer of cash to DowDuPont as part of the Internal Reorganizations. Cash used for financing activities was $(2,929) million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $(2,624) million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The change was due to repayments of commercial paper and long-term debt and transfers of cash to DowDuPont in connection with the Internal Reorganization and Business Realignments in 2019, partially offset by a net increase in contributions from Dow and DowDuPont, primarily for repayment of long-term debt, and a decrease in distributions to Dow and DowDuPont which were used to fund a portion of DowDuPont’s dividend payments, and in 2018 to fund a portion of DowDuPont’s share repurchases. During 2020, the company's Board of Directors authorized and paid four quarterly dividends on its common stock of $0.13 per share each. On June 26, 2019, the company announced that the Board of Directors authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program to purchase Corteva, Inc.'s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, without an expiration date.  The company repurchased $300 million under its share buyback plan since the Corteva Distribution and expects to repurchase the remaining $700 million in 2021. During 2019, the company purchased and retired 824,000 shares for a total cost of $25 million. During 2020, the company purchased and retired 8,503,000 shares for a total cost of $275 million.  See Note 19 - Stockholders' Equity, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the share buyback plan. EID Liquidity Discussion As discussed in Note 1 - Basis of Presentation, to the EID Consolidated Financial Statements, EID is a subsidiary of Corteva, Inc. and continues to be a reporting company, subject to the requirements of the Exchange Act.  The below relates to EID only and is presented to provide a Liquidity discussion, only for the differences between EID and Corteva, Inc. Cash provided by operating activities EID’s cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $1,986 million compared to $996 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The change was primarily driven by the items noted on page 65, under the header "Cash provided by operating activities." EID’s cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 was $996 million compared to $483 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The increase was primarily driven by the items noted on page 65, under the header “Cash provided by  operating activities,” partially offset by interest incurred on the related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc. 66 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Cash used for financing activities EID’s cash provided by (used for) financing activities was $381 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to $(2,855) million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The change was due to lower payments on long-term debt due to the 2019 debt retirement transactions related to paying off or retiring portions of EID's existing debt liabilities (using a portion of the contributions from DowDuPont and proceeds from related party debt), lower net payment on borrowings (less than 90 days), the May 2020 Debt Offering, and the absence of distributions to DowDuPont (which in 2019 were used primarily to fund a portion of DowDuPont's dividend payments). This activity was partially offset by lower proceeds from related party debt and higher payments on related party debt, and payments for the acquisition of noncontrolling interests. In addition, during 2019 there was a transfer of cash to DowDuPont as part of the Internal Reorganizations. EID’s cash used for financing activities was $(2,855) million for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to $(2,624) million for the year ended December 31, 2018.  The change was due to repayments of commercial paper and long-term debt, transfers of cash to DowDuPont in connection with the Internal Reorganization and Business Realignments in 2019, and a net decrease in contributions from Dow and DuPont, primarily for repayment of long-term debt, partially offset by proceeds received from the related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc., and a decrease in distributions to Dow and DowDuPont which were used to fund a portion of DowDuPont’s dividend payments, and in 2018 to fund a portion of DowDuPont’s share repurchases. See Note 2 - Related Party Transactions, to the EID Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the related party loan between EID and Corteva, Inc. Critical Accounting Estimates The company's significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent basis enables the company to provide the users of the financial statements with useful and reliable information about the company's operating results and financial condition. The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts, including, but not limited to, receivable and inventory valuations, impairment of tangible and intangible assets, long-term employee benefit obligations, income taxes, environmental matters and litigation. Management's estimates are based on historical experience, facts and circumstances available at the time and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable. The company reviews these matters and reflects changes in estimates as appropriate. Management believes that the following represent some of the more critical judgment areas in the application of the company's accounting policies which could have a material effect on the company's financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Pension Plans and Other Post Employment Benefits Accounting for employee benefit plans involves numerous assumptions and estimates. Discount rate and expected return on plan assets are two critical assumptions in measuring the cost and benefit obligation of the company's pension and OPEB plans. Management reviews these two key assumptions when plans are re-measured. These and other assumptions are updated periodically to reflect the actual experience and expectations on a plan specific basis as appropriate. As permitted by GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated on a plan by plan basis and to the extent that such differences exceed 10 percent of the greater of the plan's benefit obligation or the applicable plan assets, the excess is amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees or the average remaining life expectancy of plan participants if all or almost all of a plan’s participants are inactive. Substantially all of the company's benefit obligation for pensions and OPEB are attributable to the benefit plans in the U.S. In the U.S., the single equivalent discount rate is developed by matching the expected cash flow of the benefit plans to a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high quality fixed-income instruments provided by the plans' actuaries as of the measurement date. The company measures the service and interest cost components utilizing a full yield curve approach by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. For non-U.S. benefit plans, historically the company utilized prevailing long-term high quality corporate bond indices to determine the discount rate, applicable to each country, at the measurement date. 67 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Within the U.S., the company establishes strategic asset allocation percentage targets and appropriate benchmarks for significant asset classes with the aim of achieving a prudent balance between return and risk. Strategic asset allocations in other countries are selected in accordance with the laws and practices of those countries. Where appropriate, asset-liability studies are also taken into consideration. The long-term expected return on plan assets in the U.S. is based upon historical real returns (net of inflation) for the asset classes covered by the investment policy, expected performance, and projections of inflation and interest rates over the long-term period during which benefits are payable to plan participants. In determining the 2020 net periodic pension cost in the U.S., 6.25 percent of long-term expected return on plan assets assumption was used. After re-evaluating the current strategic asset allocation and recent market conditions, the company lowered the long-term expected return on plan assets assumption to 5.75 percent to be used in determining 2021 net periodic pension cost in the U.S. Consistent with prior years, the long-term expected return on plan assets in the U.S. reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the effect of the company's active management of the plan's assets. I n determining annual expense for the principal U.S. pension plan, the company uses a market-related value of assets rather than its fair value. Accordingly, there may be a lag in recognition of changes in market valuation. As a result, changes in the fair value of assets are not immediately reflected in the company's calculation of net periodic pension cost. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the market-related value of assets is calculated by averaging market returns over 36 months, however, as a result of the Merger, the market-related value of assets was calculated by averaging market returns from September 1, 2017 through the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2019. The following table shows the market-related value and fair value of plan assets for the principal U.S. pension plan: For plans other than the principal U.S. pension plan, pension expense is determined using the fair value of assets. The following table highlights the potential impact on the company's pre-tax earnings due to changes in certain key assumptions with respect to the company's pension and OPEB plans, based on assets and liabilities at December 31, 2020: Additional information with respect to pension and OPEB expenses, liabilities and assumptions is discussed under "Long-term Employee Benefits" beginning on page 73 and in Note 20 - Pension Plans and Other Post Employment Benefits, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 68 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Environmental Matters Accruals for environmental matters are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. At December 31, 2020, the company had accrued obligations of $329 million for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $52 million for the remediation of Superfund sites.  As remediation activities vary substantially in duration and cost from site to site, it is difficult to develop precise estimates of future site remediation costs. The company's estimates are based on a number of factors, including the complexity of the geology, the nature and extent of contamination, the type of remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other Potentially Responsible Parties ("PRPs") at multi-party sites and the number of and financial viability of other PRPs. Therefore, considerable uncertainty exists with respect to environmental remediation and costs, and, under adverse changes in circumstances, it is reasonably possible that the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to $620 million above that amount. Consequently, it is reasonably possible that environmental remediation and restoration costs in excess of amounts accrued could have a material impact on the company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  It is the opinion of the company’s management, however, that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of the range disclosed will have a material impact on the company’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. For further discussion, see Environmental Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 3 - Recent Accounting Guidance, and Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Legal Contingencies The company's results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the company, including product liability claims, patent infringement and antitrust claims, and claims for third party property damage or personal injury stemming from alleged environmental torts.  The company records accruals for legal matters when the information available indicates that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  Management makes adjustments to these accruals to reflect the impact and status of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of counsel and other information and events that may pertain to a particular matter.  Predicting the outcome of claims and lawsuits and estimating related costs and exposure involves substantial uncertainties that could cause actual costs to vary materially from estimates.  In making determinations of likely outcomes of litigation matters, management considers many factors.  These factors include, but are not limited to, the nature of specific claims including unasserted claims, the company's experience with similar types of claims, the jurisdiction in which the matter is filed, input from outside legal counsel, the likelihood of resolving the matter through alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, and the matter's current status.  Considerable judgment is required in determining whether to establish a litigation accrual when an adverse judgment is rendered against the company in a court proceeding.  In such situations, the company will not recognize a loss if, based upon a thorough review of all relevant facts and information, management believes that it is probable that the pending judgment will be successfully overturned on appeal.  A detailed discussion of significant litigation matters is contained in Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Indemnification Assets The company has entered into various agreements where the company is indemnified for certain liabilities by DuPont, Dow, and Chemours.  The term of this indemnification is generally indefinite and includes defense costs and expenses, as well as monetary and non-monetary settlements and judgments.  In connection with the recognition of liabilities related to these matters, the company records an indemnification asset when recovery is deemed probable.  In assessing the probability of recovery, the company considers the contractual rights under the separation agreements and any potential credit risk.  Future events, such as potential disputes related to recovery as well as the solvency of DuPont, Dow, and / or Chemours, could cause the indemnification assets to have a lower value than anticipated and recorded.  The company evaluates the recovery of the indemnification assets recorded when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values may not be fully recoverable. See Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to indemnifications. Income Taxes The breadth of the company's operations and the global complexity of tax regulations require assessments of uncertainties and judgments in estimating taxes the company will ultimately pay. The final taxes paid are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, outcomes of tax litigation and resolution of disputes arising from federal, state and international tax audits in the normal course of business. The resolution of these uncertainties may result in adjustments to the company's tax assets and tax liabilities. It is reasonably possible that changes to the company’s global unrecognized tax benefits could be significant; however, due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of completion of audits and 69 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued possible outcomes, a current estimate of the range of increases or decreases that may occur within the next twelve months cannot be made. Deferred income taxes result from differences between the financial and tax basis of the company's assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the need for and magnitude of appropriate valuation allowances against deferred tax assets. The realization of these assets is dependent on generating future taxable income, as well as successful implementation of various tax planning strategies. For example, changes in facts and circumstances that alter the probability that the company will realize deferred tax assets could result in recording a valuation allowance, thereby reducing the deferred tax asset and generating a deferred tax expense in the relevant period. In some situations, these changes could be material.  See Note 10 - Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. At December 31, 2020, the company had a net deferred tax liability balance of $429 million, inclusive of a valuation allowance of $453 million.  Realization of deferred tax assets is expected to occur over an extended period of time. As a result, changes in tax laws, assumptions with respect to future taxable income, and tax planning strategies could result in adjustments to deferred tax assets. See Note 10 - Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details related to the deferred tax liability balance. Valuation of Assets and Impairment Considerations The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are measured at their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired, including identified intangibles, is recorded as goodwill. The determination and allocation of fair value to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is based on various assumptions and valuation methodologies requiring considerable management judgment, including estimates based on historical information, current market data and future expectations. The principal assumptions utilized in the company's valuation methodologies include revenue growth rates, operating margin estimates, royalty rates, and discount rates. Although the estimates are deemed reasonable by management based on information available at the dates of acquisition, those estimates are inherently uncertain. Assessment of the potential impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in nonconsolidated affiliates, and other assets is an integral part of the company's normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of these assets is significantly dependent on numerous assumptions and reflects management's best estimates at a particular point in time. The dynamic economic environment in which the company's segments operate, and key economic and business assumptions with respect to projected selling prices, market growth and inflation rates, can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Changes in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time in which such impairments are recognized. In addition, the company continually reviews its portfolio of assets to ensure they are achieving their greatest potential and are aligned with the company's growth strategy. Strategic decisions involving a particular group of assets may trigger an assessment of the recoverability of the related assets. Such an assessment could result in impairment losses. The company performs its annual goodwill impairment assessment during the fourth quarter at the reporting unit level which is defined as the operating segment or one level below the operating segment. One level below the operating segment, or component, is a business in which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by segment management. The company aggregates certain components into reporting units based on economic similarities. The company’s reporting units include seed, crop protection and digital. For purposes of the annual goodwill impairment test, the company has the option to first perform qualitative testing to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Qualitative factors assessed at the company level include, but are not limited to, GDP growth rates, long-term commodity prices, equity and credit market activity, discount rates, foreign exchange rates, and overall financial performance. Qualitative factors assessed at the reporting unit level include, but are not limited to, changes in industry and market structure, competitive environments, planned capacity and new product launches, cost factors such as raw material prices, and financial performance of the reporting unit. If the company chooses not to complete a qualitative assessment for a given reporting unit or if the initial assessment 70 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued indicates that it is more likely than not that the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, additional quantitative testing is required. If additional quantitative testing is required, the reporting unit’s fair value is compared with its carrying amount, and an impairment charge, if any, is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value. The company determines fair values for each of the reporting units using a discounted cash flow model (a form of the income approach), utilizing Level 3 unobservable inputs, or the market approach. Under the income approach, fair value is determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. The company’s significant assumptions in these analyses include future cash flow projections, weighted average cost of capital, the terminal growth rate and the tax rate. The company’s estimates of future cash flows are based on current regulatory and economic climates, recent operating results, and planned business strategy and includes an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on its most recent views of the long-term outlook for each reporting unit. Actual results may differ from those assumed in the company’s forecasts. The company derives its discount rates using a capital asset pricing model and analyzes published rates for industries relevant to its reporting units to estimate the cost of equity financing. The company uses discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective reporting units and in its internally developed forecasts. Discount rates used in the company’s valuations ranged from 9.5% to 15.5%.  Under the market approach, the company uses metrics of publicly traded companies or historically completed transactions for comparable companies. Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. It is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods. The company believes the current assumptions and estimates utilized are both reasonable and appropriate. Based on the goodwill impairment analyses performed in the fourth quarter 2020, the company concluded the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values by more than 20 percent, and no goodwill impairment charge was necessary. Prepaid Royalties The company’s seed segment currently has certain third-party biotechnology trait license agreements, which require up-front and variable payments subject to the licensor meeting certain conditions. These payments are reflected as other current assets and other assets and are amortized to cost of goods sold as seeds containing the respective trait technology are utilized over the term of the license. The rate of royalty amortization expense recognized is based on the company’s strategic plans which include various assumptions and estimates including product portfolio, market dynamics, farmer preferences, growth rates and projected planted acres. Changes in factors and assumptions included in the strategic plans, including potential changes to the product portfolio in favor of internally developed biotechnology, could impact the rate of recognition of the relevant prepaid royalty. At December 31, 2020, the balance of prepaid royalties reflected in other current assets and other assets was $426 million and $459 million, respectively.  The majority of the balance of prepaid royalties relates to the company’s wholly owned subsidiary, Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc.’s (“Pioneer”) non-exclusive license in the United States and Canada for the Monsanto Company's Genuity ® Roundup Ready 2 Yield ® glyphosate tolerance trait and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend ® glyphosate and dicamba tolerance trait for soybeans (“Roundup Ready 2 License Agreement”).  The prepaid royalty asset relates to a series of up-front, fixed and variable royalty payments to utilize the traits in Pioneer’s soybean product mix.  The company’s historical expectation has been that the technology licensed under the Roundup Ready 2 License Agreement would be used as the primary herbicide tolerance trait platform in the Pioneer ® brand soybean through the term of the agreement.  DAS and MS Technologies, L.L.C. jointly developed and own the Enlist E3 TM herbicide tolerance trait for soybeans which provides tolerance to 2, 4-D choline in Enlist Duo ® and Enlist One ® herbicides, as well as glyphosate and glufosinate herbicides.  In connection with the validation of breeding plans and large-scale product development timelines, during the fourth quarter of 2019, the company accelerated the ramp up of the Enlist E3 TM trait platform in the company’s soybean portfolio mix across all brands, including Pioneer ® brands, over the subsequent five years. During the ramp-up period, the company is expected to significantly reduce the volume of products with the Roundup Ready 2 Yield ® and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend ® herbicide tolerance traits beginning in 2021, with expected minimal use of the trait platform thereafter for the remainder of the Roundup Ready 2 License Agreement (the “Transition Plan”).  The rate of royalty expense is therefore expected to significantly increase through higher amortization of the prepaid royalty as fewer seeds containing the respective trait are expected to be utilized. 71 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued In connection with the departure from these traits in the company's product portfolio, beginning January 1, 2020 the company  presents and discloses the accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense as a component of restructuring and asset related charges - net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense represents the difference between the rate of amortization based on the revised number of units expected to contain the Roundup Ready 2 Yield ® and Roundup Ready 2 Xtend ® trait technology and the per unit cash rate per the Roundup Ready 2 License Agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the company recognized $159 million in restructuring and asset related charges - net in the Consolidated Statement of Operations from non-cash accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense. The expected non-cash accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense estimated for 2021 is approximately $184 million, aggregating to approximately $360 million over the next four years. Further changes in factors and assumptions associated with usage of the trait platform licensed under the Roundup Ready 2 License Agreement, including the Transition Plan, could further impact the rate of recognition of the prepaid royalty and statement of operations presentation of the accelerated prepaid royalty amortization expense. 72 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Certain Guarantee Contracts Information with respect to the company's guarantees is included in Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Historically, the company has not had to make significant payments to satisfy guarantee obligations; however, the company believes it has the financial resources to satisfy these guarantees. Contractual Obligations Information related to the company's significant contractual obligations is summarized in the following table: 1. Included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2. Represents enforceable and legally binding agreements in excess of $1 million to purchase goods or services that specify fixed or minimum quantities; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the agreement. 3. The company's contractual obligations do not reflect an offset for recoveries associated with indemnifications by Chemours, Dow, and DuPont in accordance with the Chemours Separation Agreement and the Separation Agreement (related to the Corteva Distribution), respectively.  Refer to Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, and Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail related to the indemnifications. 4. Represents undiscounted remaining payments under Pioneer license agreements ($464 million on a discounted basis). 5. Primarily represents employee-related benefits other than pensions and other post employment benefits and asset retirement obligations. 6. Due to uncertainty regarding the completion of tax audits and possible outcomes, the timing of certain payments of obligations related to unrecognized tax benefits cannot be made and have been excluded from the table above. See Note 10 - Income Taxes, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. 7. The timing and amount of escrow funding requirements under the MOU cannot be estimated, as a result of the cost sharing arrangement with DuPont, and have been excluded from the table. See Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The company expects to meet its contractual obligations through its normal sources of liquidity and believes it has the financial resources to satisfy the contractual obligations that arise in the ordinary course of business. Long-term Employee Benefits The company has various obligations to its employees and retirees. The company maintains retirement-related programs in many countries that have a long-term impact on the company's earnings and cash flows. These plans are typically defined benefit pension plans, as well as medical, dental and life insurance benefits for pensioners and survivors and disability benefits for employees (other post employment benefits or OPEB plans). Substantially all of the company's worldwide benefit 73 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued obligation for pensions and essentially all of the company's worldwide OPEB obligations are attributable to the U.S. benefit plans. Pension coverage for employees of the company's non-U.S. consolidated subsidiaries is provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans. The company regularly explores alternative solutions to meet its global pension obligations in the most cost effective manner possible as demographics, life expectancy and country-specific pension funding rules change. Where permitted by applicable law, the company reserves the right to change, modify or discontinue its plans that provide pension, medical, dental, life insurance and disability benefits. Benefits under defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on years of service and employees' pay near retirement.  In November 2016, the company announced changes to the U.S. pension and OPEB plans. The company froze the pay and service amounts used to calculate pension benefits for active employees who participate in the U.S. pension plans on November 30, 2018. Therefore, as of November 30, 2018, active employees participating in the U.S. pension plans will not accrue additional benefits for future service and eligible compensation received. In addition to the changes to the U.S. pension plans, OPEB eligible employees who will be under the age of 50 as of November 30, 2018 will not receive post-retirement medical, dental and life insurance benefits.  The majority of employees hired in the U.S. on or after January 1, 2007 are not eligible to participate in the pension and post-retirement medical, dental and life insurance plans, but receive benefits in the defined contribution plans. In December 2020, the company amended its retiree medical, dental and life insurance plans. Effective January 1, 2022, the company will no longer provide retiree dental and life insurance benefits. In addition, Corteva’s portion of the cost of non-Medicare retiree medical coverage will no longer be adjusted for cost increases, resulting in Corteva’s cost to be capped at the level in effect as of December 31, 2021. As a result of these changes, the company recorded a $(939) million decrease in OPEB benefit obligations as of December 31, 2020 with a corresponding prior service benefit within other comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2020. Pension benefits are paid primarily from trust funds established to comply with applicable laws and regulations.  The actuarial assumptions and procedures utilized are reviewed periodically by the plans' actuaries to provide reasonable assurance that there will be adequate funds for the payment of benefits. The company did not make contributions to the principal U.S. pension plan for the year ended December 31, 2020. Funding for each pension plan other than the principal U.S. pension plan is governed by the rules of the sovereign country in which it operates. Thus, there is not necessarily a direct correlation between pension funding and pension expense. In general, however, improvements in plans' funded status tends to moderate subsequent funding needs. The company contributed $9 million, $39 million, and $103 million to its funded pension plans other than the principal U.S. pension plan for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. U.S. pension benefits that exceed federal limitations are covered by separate unfunded plans and these benefits are paid to pensioners and survivors from operating cash flows. The company's remaining pension plans with no plan assets are paid from operating cash flows. The company made benefit payments of $53 million, $82 million and $111 million to its unfunded plans for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The company's OPEB plans are unfunded and the cost of the approved claims is paid from operating cash flows. Pre-tax cash requirements to cover actual net claims costs and related administrative expenses were $207 million, $202 million, and $216 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Changes in cash requirements reflect the net impact of higher per capita health care costs, demographic changes, plan amendments and changes in participant premiums, co-pays and deductibles. In 2021, the company expects to contribute approximately $47 million to its pension plans other than the principal U.S. pension plan. The company expects to contribute approximately $217 million to its OPEB plans in 2021, and expects the amount to decrease to approximately $140 million in 2022 as a result of the OPEB plan amendment. The company is evaluating potential discretionary contributions in 2021 to the principal U.S. pension plan, that could reduce a portion of the underfunded benefit obligation. Any discretionary contributions depend on various factors including market conditions and tax deductible limits. 74 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued The company's income can be significantly affected by pension and defined contribution benefits as well as OPEB costs. The following table summarizes the extent to which the company's income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was affected by pre-tax charges related to long-term employee benefits: The above (credit) charges for pension and OPEB are determined as of the beginning of each period.  Long-term employee credits were $(213) million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $(48) million for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The change is due to lower discount rates. See "Pension Plans and Other Post Employment Benefits" under the Critical Accounting Estimates section beginning on page 67 of this report for additional information on determining annual expense. For 2021, long-term employee benefits credit is expected to increase by about $930 million. The increase is mainly due to amendments to the OPEB plans and a decrease in the discount rates, partly offset by a change in expected return on plan assets from 6.25 percent to 5.75 percent. Environmental Matters The company operates global manufacturing, product handling and distribution facilities that are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations.  Such rules are subject to change by the implementing governmental agency, and the company monitors these changes closely.  Company policy requires that all operations fully meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, the company implements voluntary programs to reduce air emissions, minimize the generation of hazardous waste, decrease the volume of water use and discharges, increase the efficiency of energy use and reduce the generation of persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic materials. Management has noted a global upward trend in the amount and complexity of proposed chemicals regulation.  The costs to comply with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs and goals, are significant and will continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. Pre-tax environmental expenses charged to income from continuing operations before income taxes are summarized below: 1. Environmental remediation costs include costs that are subject to the $200 million thresholds and sharing arrangements as discussed in Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under Corteva Separation Agreement. About 85 percent of total pre-tax environmental operating costs charged to income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 resulted from operations in the U.S. Based on existing facts and circumstances, management does not believe that year-over-year changes, if any, in environmental operating costs charged to current operations will have a material impact on the company's financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Annual expenditures in the near term are not expected to vary significantly from the range of such expenditures experienced in the past few years. Longer term, expenditures are subject to considerable uncertainty and may fluctuate significantly. Environmental Operating Costs As a result of its operations, the company incurs costs for pollution abatement activities including waste collection and disposal, installation and maintenance of air pollution controls and wastewater treatment, emissions testing and monitoring, and obtaining permits. The company also incurs costs related to environmental related research and development activities including environmental field and treatment studies as well as toxicity and degradation testing to evaluate the environmental impact of products and raw materials. 75 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued Remediation Accrual Changes in the remediation accrual balance are summarized below: 1. Excludes indemnified remediation obligations. 2. Represents the net change in indemnified remediation obligations based on activity as well as the removal from EID's accrued remediation liabilities of obligations that have been fully transferred to Chemours and DuPont. Pursuant to the Chemours Separation Agreement and subsequent MOU, and the Corteva Separation Agreement, as discussed in Note 5 - Divestitures and Other Transactions, and Note 18 - Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, to the Consolidated Financial Statements, EID is indemnified by Chemours and DuPont for certain environmental matters. Considerable uncertainty exists with respect to environmental remediation costs and, under adverse changes in circumstances, the potential liability may range up to $620 million above the amount accrued as of December 31, 2020.  However, based on existing facts and circumstances, management does not believe that any loss, in excess of amounts accrued, related to remediation activities at any individual site will have a material impact on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of the company. The above noted $329 million accrued obligations includes the following: 1. Represents liabilities that are subject to the $200 million thresholds and sharing arrangements as discussed on page F-51, under Corteva Separation Agreement. 2. The company has recorded an indemnification asset related to these accruals, including $30 million related to the Superfund sites. 3. Accrual balance represents management’s best estimate of the costs of remediation and restoration, although it is reasonably possible that the potential exposure, as indicated, could range above the amounts accrued, as there are inherent uncertainties in these estimates. 4. Accrual balance excludes indemnification liabilities of $39 million to Chemours, related to the cost sharing arrangement under the MOU (see page F-27). As of December 31, 2020, the company has been notified of potential liability under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("Superfund") or similar state laws at about 500 sites around the U.S., including approximately 130 sites for which the company does not believe it has liability based on current information. Active remediation is under way at 70 of the 500 sites. In addition, the company has resolved its liability at approximately 210 sites, either by completing remedial actions with other PRPs or by participating in "de minimis buyouts" with other PRPs whose 76 Part II ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, continued waste, like the company's, represented only a small fraction of the total waste present at a site. The company received notice of potential liability at 2 new sites during 2018. There were no new notices in 2019 or 2020. Environmental Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for environmental projects, either required by law or necessary to meet the company’s internal environmental goals, were approximately $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The company currently estimates expenditures for environmental-related capital projects to be approximately $11 million in 2021. Climate Change The company believes that climate change is an important global environmental concern that presents risks and opportunities. The Board of Directors maintains oversight of these risks and opportunities. Management regularly assesses and manages climate-related issues. Across its business, individuals who are responsible for climate-related initiatives may have annual performance goals tied to the delivery of projects related to these initiatives. Continuing political and social attention to climate change and its impacts has resulted in regulatory and market-based approaches to limit greenhouse gas emissions. The company believes there is a way forward for sustainable climate change mitigation that both enables farmers to meet the demands of a growing population and secures the economic future for the vast majority of the world’s population who depend on agriculture for their livelihoods. Extreme and volatile weather due to climate change may have an adverse impact on customers’ ability to use the company's products, potentially reducing sales volumes, revenues and margins. The company continuously evaluates opportunities for existing and new product and service offerings to meet the anticipated demands of climate-smart agriculture and mitigate the impact of extreme and volatile weather. The company integrates processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risk into its overall risk management. The company completed a non-financial materiality assessment and identified short-, medium- and long-term climate-related risks and opportunities. The results of this assessment are integrated into the company's businesses, strategy and financial planning and are presented in the 14 ten-year sustainability goals that were set in 2020. For each goal, the company established key performance indicators and criteria to achieve the goals, which are provided on the company's website at: https://www.corteva.com/sustainability.html. The information contained on the company’s website is not part of, nor incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the company’s other SEC filings. As demonstrated by the goals, Corteva is working to shrink its role in the emission of greenhouse gasses while enabling a more resilient agriculture value chain. Corteva will establish a climate strategy, including appropriate Scopes 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas reduction targets, by June 2021. The company is seeking ways to reduce its impact and providing tools and incentives for customers to do the same. Corteva champions climate positive agriculture, utilizing carbon storage and other means to remove more carbon from the atmosphere than it emits without sacrificing farmer productivity or ongoing profitability. The company is committed to engaging with multiple stakeholders and partners around the globe who have innovative and actionable ideas to help safeguard the health and well-being of the planet and its people.  By doing more to address climate change today, the company is fortifying its ability to grow food, grow progress and build a sustainable industry that will help humanity thrive for generations to come. 77 Part II