********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider each of the following risks and uncertainties and all of the other information set forth in this 10-K. These risks and uncertainties and other factors may affect forward-looking statements, including those we make in this 10-K or elsewhere, such as in news releases or investor or analyst calls, meetings or presentations, on our websites or through our social media channels. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. There can be no assurance that we have identified all the risks that affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely affect our businesses. Any of these risks or uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from our expectations and the expected results discussed in our forward-looking statements. You should not consider past results to be an indication of future performance. If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks or uncertainties occur or continue to occur, those events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results, cash flows, financial condition and/or stock price, among other effects on us. You should read the following section in conjunction with the MD&A, included in Item 7 of this 10-K, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, included in Item 8 of this 10-K, and our “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” in this 10-K. 32 Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks we face: Risks Related to COVID-19 • The impact of COVID-19 on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition is uncertain, but the impact could be material and adverse. • The impact of COVID-19 and the related testing and vaccination may result in us not being able to accurately forecast health care and other benefit costs, and we are uncertain that future health care and other benefits costs will not exceed our projections. Risks Relating to Our Businesses • Each of our segments operates in a highly competitive and evolving business environment. • A change in our Health Care Benefits product mix may adversely affect our profit margins. • Negative public perception of the industries in which we operate can adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows and prospects. • Failure to maintain or improve our relationships with our retail and specialty pharmacy customers may adversely affect our operating results. • We face risks relating to the availability, pricing and safety profiles of prescription drugs that we purchase and sell. • We may not be able to accurately forecast health care and other benefit costs. • If actual claims in our Insured Health Care Benefits products exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially adversely affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs may be limited. • We are exposed to risks relating to the solvency of other insurers. Risks From Changes in Public Policy and Other Legal and Regulatory Risks • We are subject to potential changes in public policy, laws and regulations, including reform of the U.S. health care system, which can adversely affect our businesses. • If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions or suffer brand and reputational harm. • If our compliance or other systems and processes fail or are deemed inadequate, we may suffer brand and reputational harm and become subject to regulatory actions and/or litigation. • The litigation and other adverse legal proceedings that we face are costly to defend, may result in changes in our business practices, harm our brand and reputation and adversely affect our businesses and operating results. • The governmental audits, investigations and reviews to which we are subject could result in changes to our business practices and also could result in material refunds, fines, penalties, civil and/or criminal liabilities and other sanctions. • Our litigation and regulatory risk profile are changing as we offer new products and services. • We face unique regulatory and other challenges in our Medicare and Medicaid businesses. • Programs funded in whole or in part by the U.S. federal government account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we expect that percentage to increase. • We may not be able to obtain adequate premium rate increases in our Insured Health Care Benefits products, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues, MBRs and operating results. • Minimum MLR rebate requirements limit the level of margin we can earn in our Insured Health Care Benefits products while leaving us exposed to higher than expected medical costs. • Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in laws and policies governing employers and by union organizing activity. Risks Associated with Mergers, Acquisitions, and Divestitures • We may be unable to successfully integrate companies we acquire. 33 • The acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and other inorganic growth opportunities we pursue may be unsuccessful. • In order to complete a proposed acquisition, we may be required to divest certain portions of our business, for which we may not be able to obtain favorable pricing. Risks Related to Our Operations • Failure to meet customer expectations may harm our brand and reputation, our ability to retain and grow our customer base and membership and our operating results and cash flows. • We can provide no assurance that we or our vendors will be able to detect, prevent or contain the effects of cyber attacks or other information security (including cybersecurity) risks or threats in the future. • Our use and disclosure of members’, customers’ and other constituents’ sensitive information is subject to complex regulations at multiple levels, and we would be adversely affected if we or our business associates or other vendors fail to adequately protect members’, customers’ or other constituents’ sensitive information. • Product liability, product recall or personal injury issues could damage our reputation and have a significant adverse effect on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition. • We face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees, and managing succession for, and retention of, key executives is critical to our success. • Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract and motivate internal sales personnel and independent third-party brokers, consultants and agents. • Failure of our businesses to effectively collaborate could prevent us from maximizing our operating results. • The failure or disruption of our information technology systems or infrastructure to support our businesses could adversely affect our reputation, businesses, operating results and cash flows. • Pursuing multiple initiatives simultaneously presents challenges to maintaining, continuing to develop and improve an effective information technology system. • We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and disrupt our business operations. • Both our and our vendors’ operations are subject to a variety of business continuity hazards and risks. Financial Risks • We would be adversely affected if we do not effectively deploy our capital. Downgrades or potential downgrades in our credit ratings could adversely affect our brand and reputation, businesses, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. • Goodwill and other intangible assets could, in the future, become impaired. • Adverse conditions in the U.S. and global capital markets can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investments. • Our significant indebtedness has increased our consolidated interest expense and could adversely affect our business flexibility and increase our borrowing costs. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Manufacturers, Providers, Suppliers and Vendors • We face risks relating to the market availability, pricing, suppliers and safety profiles of prescription drugs and other products that we purchase and sell. • Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to contract with providers on competitive terms and develop and maintain attractive networks with high quality providers. • If our service providers fail to meet their contractual obligations to us or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be exposed to brand and reputational harm, litigation and/or regulatory action. • We may experience increased medical and other benefit costs, litigation risk and customer and member dissatisfaction when providers that do not have contracts with us render services to our Health Care Benefits members. • Continuing consolidation and integration among providers and other suppliers may increase our medical and other covered benefits costs, make it difficult for us to compete in certain geographies and create new competitors. 34 Risks Related to COVID-19 The spread of, impact of and response to COVID-19 underscores and amplifies certain risks we face. The impact COVID-19 will have on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition is uncertain, but the impact could be material and adverse. COVID-19 has spread to every state in the U.S., has been declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization and has severely impacted, and is expected to continue to severely impact, the economies of the U.S. and other countries around the world. The legislative and regulatory environment governing our businesses is dynamic and changing frequently, including the Families First Act, the CARES Act and mandated increases to the medical services we must pay for without a corresponding increase in the premiums we receive in our Health Care Benefits Insured products. As a result of COVID-19, including legislative and/or regulatory responses to COVID-19, the premiums we charge in our Insured Health Care Benefits products may prove to be insufficient to cover the cost of medical services delivered to our Insured medical members, which may increase significantly as a result of higher utilization rates of medical facilities and services and other increases in associated hospital and pharmaceutical costs. Federal, state and local governmental policies and initiatives to reduce the transmission of COVID-19, including shelter-in-place orders and social distancing directives, may not effectively combat the severity and/or duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and have resulted in, among other things, a reduction in utilization that is discretionary, the cancellation of elective medical procedures, reduced customer traffic and front store sales in our retail pharmacies, our customers being ordered to close or severely curtail their operations, the adoption of work-from-home policies and a reduction in diagnostic reporting due to reductions in health care provider visits and restrictions on our access to providers’ medical records, all of which impact our businesses. Among other impacts of these policies and initiatives on our businesses, we expect changes in medical claims submission patterns and an adverse impact on (i) drug utilization due to the reduction in discretionary visits with providers; (ii) front store sales as a result of reduced customer traffic in our retail pharmacies due to shelter-in-place orders and COVID-19 related unemployment; (iii) medical membership in our Health Care Benefits segment and covered lives in our PBM clients due to reductions in workforce at our existing customers (including due to business failures) as well as reduced willingness to change benefits providers by prospective customers; (iv) benefit costs due to COVID-19 related support programs we have put in place for our medical members and mandated increases to the medical services we must pay for without a corresponding increase in the premiums we receive in our Insured Health Care Benefits products; and (v) the amount, timing and collectability of payments to the Company from customers, clients, government payers and members as a result of the impact of COVID-19 on them. Over time, these policies and initiatives also may cause us to experience increased benefit costs and/or decreased revenues in our Health Care Benefits segment if, as a result of our medical members not seeing their providers as a result of COVID-19, we are unable to implement clinical initiatives to manage benefit costs and chronic conditions of our medical members and appropriately document their risk profiles. In addition, in response to COVID-19, during the first half of 2020, we began to offer our medical members expanded benefit coverage and became obligated by governmental action to provide other additional coverage. This expanded benefit coverage is being provided without a corresponding increase in the premiums we receive in our Insured Health Care Benefits products. We also are taking actions designed to help provide financial and administrative relief for the health care provider community. Such measures and any further steps we take or are required to take to expand or otherwise modify the services delivered to our Health Care Benefits members, provide relief for the health care provider community, or in connection with the relaxation of shelter-in-place orders and social distancing directives and other restrictions on movement and economic activity intended to reduce the spread of COVID-19, including the potential for widespread testing and vaccination, as a component of lifting those measures, could adversely impact our benefit costs, MBR and operating results. The various initiatives we have implemented to slow and/or reduce the impact of COVID-19, such as colleagues working remotely and installing protective equipment in our retail pharmacies, and the COVID-19-related support programs we have put in place for our customers, medical members and colleagues have increased our operating expenses and reduced the efficiency of our operations. Our operating results will continue to be adversely affected so long as these initiatives continue or if they are expanded. In addition, the adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad caused by COVID-19 have had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our net investment income and the value of our investment portfolio. The spread of COVID-19, or actions taken to mitigate its spread, could have material and adverse effects on our ability to operate our businesses effectively, including as a result of the complete or partial closure of facilities, labor shortages and/or financial difficulties experienced by third-party service providers. Disruptions in our supply chains, our distribution chains and/ 35 or public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, could materially and adversely impact our business operations. We have transitioned a significant subset of our colleagues to a remote work environment in an effort to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, as have a significant number of our third-party service providers, which may amplify certain risks to our businesses, including an increased demand for information technology resources, increased risk of phishing and other cybersecurity attacks, increased risk of unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our medical members or other third-parties and increased risk of business interruptions. While the FDA has authorized some COVID-19 vaccines for emergency use, the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve and the severity and duration of the pandemic and scope and intensity of the governmental response to it are unknown at this time. We believe COVID-19’s impact on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition primarily will be driven by the geographies impacted and the severity and duration of the pandemic; the pandemic’s impact on the U.S. and global economies and consumer behavior and health care utilization patterns; and the timing, scope and impact of stimulus legislation as well as other federal, state and local governmental responses to the pandemic. Those primary drivers are beyond our knowledge and control. As a result, the impact COVID-19 will have on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition is uncertain, but the impact could be adverse and material. COVID-19 also may result in legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations and claims against us. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including COVID-19 and related testing and vaccination, contribute to rising health care and other benefit costs. We may not be able to accurately forecast health care and other benefit costs, which could adversely affect our Health Care Benefits segment’s operating results. There can be no assurance that future health care and other benefits costs will not exceed our projections. As a result of COVID-19, the current economic environment is adverse and less predictable than recently experienced, which has caused and may continue to cause unanticipated and significant volatility in our health care and other benefits costs, including COVID-19 related testing and vaccination and post-acute care skilled nursing facility and behavioral health costs. On January 21, 2021, the President of the United States issued an executive order to support government efforts to expand access, availability and use of COVID-19 diagnostic, screening and surveillance and addressed the cost of COVID-19 testing by facilitating COVID-19 testing free of charge to those who lack comprehensive health insurance and clarifying group health plans’ and health insurance issuers’ obligations to provide coverage for COVID-19 testing. In addition, the timing of vaccine administration to the general public and related costs as well as the identification of new, more infectious strains of the COVID-19 virus and whether the vaccines will be effective against such new strains are uncertain and may impact our MBR. Premiums for our Insured Health Care Benefits products, which comprised 92% of our Health Care Benefits revenues for 2020, are priced in advance based on our forecasts of health care and other benefit costs during a fixed premium period, which is generally twelve months. These forecasts are typically developed several months before the fixed premium period begins, are influenced by historical data (and recent historical data in particular), are dependent on our ability to anticipate and detect medical cost trends and changes in our members’ behavior and health care utilization patterns and medical claim submission patterns and require a significant degree of judgment. For example, our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted in June of the year before the contract year. Cost increases in excess of our projections cannot be recovered in the fixed premium period through higher premiums. As a result, our profits are particularly sensitive to the accuracy of our forecasts of the increases in health care and other benefit costs that we expect to occur and our ability to anticipate and detect medical cost trends. For 2021, those forecasts include adjustments made to pricing based on prospective expectations for liabilities due to testing, vaccines, direct COVID-19 treatment and deferred care. Risk-adjusted revenue has been adjusted for deferred care, and forecasted enrollment considers assumptions about the economic environment, though COVID-19 related impacts remain uncertain. During periods such as 2020 and 2021 when health care and other benefit costs, utilization and/or medical costs trends experience significant volatility and medical claim submission patterns are changing rapidly as a result of COVID-19, accurately detecting, forecasting, managing, reserving and pricing for our (and our self-insured customers’) medical cost trends and incurred and future health care and other benefits costs is more challenging. There can be no assurance regarding the accuracy of the health care or other benefit cost projections reflected in our pricing, and our health care and other benefit costs (including COVID-19 related testing and vaccination and post-acute care skilled nursing facility and behavioral health costs) are affected by COVID-19 and other external events over which we have no control. Even relatively small differences between predicted and actual health care and other benefit costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant adverse changes in our Health Care Benefits segment’s operating results. A number of factors contribute to rising health care and other benefit costs, including COVID-19, previously uninsured members entering the health care system, changes in members’ behavior and health care utilization patterns, turnover in our membership, additional government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes (including under the Families First Act and the CARES Act), changes in the health status of our members, the aging of the population and other changing demographic characteristics, advances in medical technology, increases in the number and cost of prescription drugs (including specialty 36 pharmacy drugs and ultra-high cost drugs and therapies), direct-to-consumer marketing by drug manufacturers, the increasing influence of social media on our members’ health care utilization and other behaviors, changes in health care practices and general economic conditions (such as inflation and employment levels). In addition, government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements to health plans and providers have caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care and other benefits costs over time, and future amendments or repeal or replacement of the ACA that increase the uninsured population may amplify this problem. Other factors that affect our health care and other benefit costs include epidemics or other pandemics, changes as a result of the ACA, changes to or the discontinuation of the ACA and other changes in the regulatory environment, the evolution toward a consumer driven business model, new technologies, influenza-related health care costs (which may be substantial), clusters of high-cost cases, health care provider and member fraud, and numerous other factors that are or may be beyond our control. Furthermore, if we are not able to accurately and promptly anticipate and detect medical cost trends or accurately estimate the cost of incurred but not yet reported claims or reported claims that have not been paid, our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future health care costs and reflect our current benefit cost experience in our pricing process may be limited, which would further amplify the extent of any adverse impact on our operating results. These risks are particularly acute during periods such as 2020 and 2021 when health care and other benefit costs, utilization and/or medical cost trends experience significant volatility and medical claim submission patterns are changing rapidly as a result of COVID-19. Such risks are further magnified by the ACA and other existing and future legislation and regulations that limit our ability to price for our projected and/or experienced increases in utilization and/or medical cost trends. There can be no assurance that future health care and other benefits costs will not exceed our projections. Adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad can materially and adversely impact our businesses, operating results, cash flows and financial condition, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. The COVID-19 pandemic, the availability and cost of credit and other capital, higher unemployment rates and other factors have contributed to adverse conditions in the global economy and significantly diminished expectations for the global economy, and particularly the U.S. economy, at least through the end of 2020 and possibly longer. Our customers, medical providers and the other companies with which we do business are generally headquartered in the U.S.; however, many of our largest customers are global companies with operations around the world. As a result, adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad, including those caused by COVID-19, can materially and adversely impact our businesses, operating results, cash flows and financial condition, including: • In our Pharmacy Services segment, by causing drug utilization to decline, reducing demand for PBM services and adversely affecting the financial health of our PBM clients. • In our Retail/LTC segment, by causing drug utilization to decline, changing consumer purchasing power, preferences and/or spending patterns leading to reduced consumer demand for products sold in our stores and adversely affecting the financial health of our LTC pharmacy customers. • By causing our existing customers to reduce workforces (including due to business failures), which would reduce our revenues, the number of covered lives in our PBM clients and/or the number of members our Health Care Benefits segment serves. • By causing our clients and customers and potential clients and customers, particularly those with the most employees or members, and state and local governments, to force us to compete more vigorously on factors such as price and service, including service, discount and other performance guarantees, to retain or obtain their business. • By causing customers and potential customers of our Retail/LTC and Health Care Benefits segments to purchase fewer products and/or products that generate less profit for us than the ones they currently purchase or otherwise would have purchased. • By causing customers and potential customers of our Health Care Benefits segment, particularly smaller employers and individuals, to forego obtaining or renewing their health and other coverage with us. • In our Health Care Benefits segment, by causing unanticipated increases and volatility in utilization of medical and other covered services, including COVID-19 related testing, vaccination and behavioral health services, by our medical members, changes in medical claim submission patterns and/or increases in medical unit costs and/or provider behavior, each of which would increase our costs and limit our ability to accurately detect, forecast, manage, reserve and price for our (and our self-insured customers’) medical cost trends and incurred and future health care and other benefits costs. 37 • By increasing medical unit costs and causing changes in provider behavior in our Health Care Benefits segment as hospitals and other providers attempt to maintain revenue levels in their efforts to adjust to their own COVID-19-related and other economic challenges. • By weakening the ability or perceived ability of the issuers and/or guarantors of the debt or other securities we hold in our investment portfolio to perform on their obligations to us, which could result in defaults in those securities and has reduced, and may further reduce, the value of those securities and has created, and may continue to create, net realized capital losses for us that reduce our operating results. • By weakening the ability of our customers, including self-insured customers in our Health Care Benefits segment, medical providers and the other companies with which we do business as well as our medical members to perform their obligations to us or causing them not to perform those obligations, either of which could reduce our operating results. • By weakening the ability of our former subsidiaries and/or their purchasers to satisfy their lease obligations that we have guaranteed and causing the Company to be required to satisfy those obligations. • By weakening the financial condition of other insurers, including long-term care insurers and life insurers, which increases the risk that we will receive significant assessments for obligations of insolvent insurers to policyholders and claimants. • By causing, over time, inflation that could cause interest rates to increase and thereby increase our interest expense and reduce our operating results, as well as decrease the value of the debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio, which would reduce our operating results and/or adversely affect our financial condition. Furthermore, reductions in workforce by our customers can cause unanticipated increases in the health care and other benefits costs of our Health Care Benefits segment. For example, our business associated with members who have elected to receive benefits under Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (known as “COBRA”) typically has an MBR that is significantly higher than our overall Commercial MBR. Risks Relating to Our Businesses Each of our segments operates in a highly competitive and evolving business environment; and gross margins in the industries in which we compete may decline. Each of our segments, Pharmacy Services, which includes our pharmacy benefit management (“PBM”) business, Retail/LTC, and Health Care Benefits, operates in a highly competitive and evolving business environment. Specifically: • As competition increases in the geographies in which we operate, including competition from new entrants, a significant increase in price compression and/or reimbursement pressures could occur, and this could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. • The competitive success of our Pharmacy Services segment is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain contractual relationships with network pharmacies as PBM clients evaluate adopting narrow or restricted retail pharmacy networks. • The competitive success of our Retail/LTC segment and our specialty pharmacy operations is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain contractual relationships with PBMs and other payors on acceptable terms as the payors’ clients evaluate adopting narrow or restricted retail pharmacy networks. • In our PBM business, we maintain contractual relationships with brand name drug manufacturers that provide for purchase discounts and/or rebates on drugs dispensed by pharmacies in our retail network and by our specialty and mail order pharmacies (all or a portion of which may be passed on to clients). Manufacturer’s rebates often depend on a PBM’s ability to meet contractual requirements, including the placement of a manufacturer’s products on the PBM’s formularies. If we lose our relationship with one or more drug manufacturers, or if the discounts or rebates provided by drug manufacturers decline, our operating results, cash flows and/or prospects could be adversely affected. • The PBM industry has been experiencing price compression as a result of competitive pressures and increased client demands for lower prices, increased revenue sharing, including sharing in a larger portion of rebates received from drug manufacturers, enhanced service offerings and/or higher service levels. Marketplace dynamics and regulatory changes also have adversely affected our ability to offer plan sponsors pricing that includes the use of retail “differential” or “spread,” which could adversely affect our future profitability, and we expect these trends to continue. • Our retail pharmacy, specialty pharmacy and LTC pharmacy operations have been affected by reimbursement pressure caused by competition, including client demands for lower prices, generic drug pricing, earlier than expected generic drug introductions and network reimbursement pressure. If we are unable to increase our prices to reflect, or otherwise mitigate 38 the impact of, increasing costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. If we are unable to limit our price increases, we may lose customers to competitors with more favorable pricing, adversely affecting our revenues and operating results. • A shift in the mix of our pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates as a result of competition or otherwise could adversely affect our margins, including the ongoing shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day prescriptions at retail and the ongoing shift in pharmacy mix towards Medicare Part D prescriptions. • PBM client contracts often are for a period of approximately three years. However, PBM clients may require early or periodic re-negotiation of pricing prior to contract expiration. PBM clients are generally well informed, can move between us and our competitors and often seek competing bids prior to expiration of their contracts. We are therefore under pressure to contain price increases despite being faced with increasing drug costs and increasing operating costs. If we are unable to increase our prices to reflect, or otherwise mitigate the impact of, increasing costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. If we are unable to limit our price increases, we may lose customers to competitors with more favorable pricing, adversely affecting our revenues and operating results. • The operating results and margins of our LTC business are further affected by the increased efforts of health care payors to negotiate reduced or capitated pricing arrangements and by the financial health of, and purchases and sales of, our LTC customers. • In our Health Care Benefits segment we are seeking to substantially grow our Medicaid, dual eligible and dual eligible special needs plan membership over the next several years. In many instances, to acquire and retain our government customers’ business, we must bid against our competitors in a highly competitive environment. Winning bids often are challenged successfully by unsuccessful bidders, and may also be withdrawn or cancelled by the issuing agency. • Customer contracts in our Health Care Benefits segment are generally for a period of one year, and our customers have considerable flexibility in moving between us and our competitors. One of the key factors on which we compete for customers, especially in uncertain economic environments, is overall cost. We are therefore under pressure to contain premium price increases despite being faced with increasing health care and other benefit costs and increasing operating costs. If we are unable to increase our prices to reflect, or otherwise mitigate the impact of, increasing costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. If we are unable to limit our price increases, we may lose members to competitors with more favorable pricing, adversely affecting our revenues and operating results. In response to rising prices, our customers may elect to self-insure or to reduce benefits in order to limit increases in their benefit costs. Alternatively, our customers may purchase different types of products from us that are less profitable. Such elections may result in reduced membership in our more profitable Insured products and/or lower premiums for our Insured products, which may adversely affect our revenues and operating results, although such elections also may reduce our health care and other benefit costs. In addition, our Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP products are subject to termination without cause, periodic re-bid, rate adjustment and program redesign, as customers seek to contain their benefit costs, particularly in an uncertain economy, and our exposure to this risk is increasing as we grow our Government products membership. These actions may adversely affect our membership, revenues and operating results. • We requested increases in our premium rates in our Commercial Health Care Benefits business for 2021 and expect to continue to request increases in those rates for 2022 and beyond in order to adequately price for projected medical cost trends, required expansions of coverage and rating limits, and significant assessments, fees and taxes imposed by federal and state governments, including as a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “ACA”). Our rates also must be adequate to reflect the risk that our products will be selected by people with a higher risk profile or utilization rate than the pool of participants we anticipated when we established pricing for the applicable products (also known as “adverse selection”), particularly in small group Commercial products. These rate increases may be significant and thus heighten the risks of adverse publicity, adverse regulatory action and adverse selection and the likelihood that our requested premium rate increases will be denied, reduced or delayed, which could lead to operating margin compression. In addition, competitors in each of our businesses may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. Competition also may come from new entrants and other sources in the future. Unless we can demonstrate enhanced value to our clients through innovative product and service offerings in the rapidly changing health care industry, we may be unable to remain competitive. Disruptive innovation by existing or new competitors could alter the competitive landscape in the future and require us to accurately identify and assess such alterations and make timely and effective changes to our strategies and business model to compete effectively. For example, decisions to buy our Pharmacy Services and Health Care Benefits products and services increasingly are made or influenced by consumers, either through direct purchasing (e.g., Medicare Advantage plans and PDPs) or through public health insurance exchanges (“Public Exchanges”) and private health insurance exchanges (together with Public Exchanges, collectively, “Insurance Exchanges”) that allow individual choice. Consumers also are increasingly seeking to access consumer goods and health care products and services locally and through other direct channels such as mobile 39 devices and websites. To compete effectively in the consumer-driven marketplace, we will be required to develop or acquire new capabilities, attract new talent and develop new service and distribution relationships that respond to consumer needs and preferences. Changes in marketplace dynamics or the actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation, the emergence of new competitors and strategic alliances, and decisions to exclude us from new narrow or restricted retail pharmacy networks could materially and adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or prospects. A change in our Health Care Benefits product mix may adversely affect our profit margins. Our Insured Health Care Benefits products that involve greater potential risk generally tend to be more profitable than our ASC products. Historically, smaller employer groups have been more likely to purchase Insured Health Care Benefits products because such purchasers are generally unable or unwilling to bear greater liability for health care expenditures, although over the last several years even relatively small employers have moved to ASC products. We also serve, and expect to grow our business with, government-sponsored programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, that are subject to competitive bids and have lower profit margins than our Commercial Insured Health Care Benefits products. A shift of enrollees from more profitable products to less profitable products could have a material adverse effect on the Health Care Benefits segment’s operating results. Negative public perception of the industries in which we operate, or of our industries’ or our practices, can adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows and prospects. Our brand and reputation are two of our most important assets, and the industries in which we operate have been and are negatively perceived by the public from time to time. Negative publicity may come as a result of adverse media coverage, litigation against us and other industry participants, the ongoing public debates over drug pricing, PBMs, government involvement in drug pricing and purchasing, the future of the ACA, “surprise” medical bills, governmental hearings and/or investigations, actual or perceived shortfalls regarding our industries’ or our own products and/or business practices (including PBM operations, drug pricing and insurance coverage determinations) and social media and other media relations activities.  Negative publicity also may come from a failure to meet customer expectations for consistent, high quality and accessible care. This risk may increase as we continue to offer products and services that make greater use of data and as our business model becomes more focused on delivering health care to consumers. In addition, by working with the U.S. government in the distribution and administration of the COVID-19 vaccine, the Company may be subject to negative publicity related to the government’s actions in response to COVID-19 that are outside of the ability of the Company to control. Negative public perception and/or publicity of our industries in general, or of us or our key vendors, brokers or product distribution networks in particular, can further increase our costs of doing business and adversely affect our operating results and our stock price by: • adversely affecting our brand and reputation; • adversely affecting our ability to market and sell our products and/or services and/or retain our existing customers and members; • requiring us to change our products and/or services; • reducing or restricting the revenue we can receive for our products and/or services; and/or • increasing or significantly changing the regulatory and legislative requirements with which we must comply. We must maintain and improve our relationships with our retail and specialty pharmacy customers and increase the demand for our products and services, including proprietary brands. The success of our businesses depends in part on customer loyalty, superior customer service and our ability to persuade customers to frequent our retail stores and online sites and to purchase products in additional categories and our proprietary brands. Failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, and evolving demographic mixes in the communities we serve, an inability to expand the products being purchased by our clients and customers, or the failure or inability to obtain or offer particular categories of products could adversely affect our relationship with our customers and clients and the demand for our products and services and could result in excess inventories of products. 40 We offer our retail customers proprietary brand products that are available exclusively at our retail stores and through our online retail sites. The sale of proprietary products subjects us to unique risks including potential product liability risks, mandatory or voluntary product recalls, potential supply chain and distribution chain disruptions for raw materials and finished products, our ability to successfully protect our intellectual property rights and the rights of applicable third parties, and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, market and sell private-label products. We also face similar risks for the other products we sell in our retail operations, including supply chain and distribution chain disruption risk. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have an adverse effect on our retail business, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition. Additionally, an increase in the sales of our proprietary brands may adversely affect our sales of products owned by our suppliers and adversely impact certain of our supplier relationships. Our ability to locate qualified, economically stable suppliers who satisfy our requirements, and to acquire sufficient products in a timely and effective manner, is critical to ensuring, among other things, that customer confidence is not diminished. Any failure to develop sourcing relationships with a broad and deep supplier base could adversely affect our operating results and erode customer loyalty. We also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in marketplace dynamics. For example, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the U.S., a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. Because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications, many of which are made available by manufacturers to a limited number of pharmacies (so-called limited distribution drugs) that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of our specialty pharmacy business depends largely upon expanding our access to key drugs and penetration in certain treatment categories. Any contraction of our base of patients or reduction in demand for the prescriptions we currently dispense could have an adverse effect on our specialty pharmacy business, operating results and cash flows. We face risks relating to the availability, pricing and safety profiles of prescription drugs that we purchase and sell. The profitability of our Retail/LTC and Pharmacy Services segments is dependent upon the utilization of prescription drug products. We dispense significant volumes of brand name and generic drugs from our retail, LTC, specialty and mail order pharmacies, and the retail pharmacies in our PBM’s network also dispense significant volumes of brand name and generic drugs. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows may decline if physicians cease writing prescriptions for drugs or the utilization of drugs is reduced, including due to: • increased safety risk profiles or regulatory restrictions; • manufacturing or other supply issues; • certain products being withdrawn by their manufacturers or transitioned to over-the-counter products; • future FDA rulings restricting the supply or increasing the cost of products; • the introduction of new and successful prescription drugs or lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name products; or • inflation in the price of brand name drugs. In addition, increased utilization of generic drugs (which normally yield a higher gross profit rate than equivalent brand name drugs) has resulted in pressure to decrease reimbursement payments to retail, mail order, specialty and LTC pharmacies for generic drugs, causing a reduction in our margins on sales of generic drugs. Consolidation within the generic drug manufacturing industry and other external factors may enhance the ability of manufacturers to sustain or increase pricing of generic drugs and diminish our ability to negotiate reduced generic drug acquisition costs. Any inability to offset increased brand name or generic prescription drug acquisition costs or to modify our activities to lessen the financial impact of such increased costs could have a significant adverse effect on our operating results. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, contribute to rising health care and other benefit costs. We may not be able to accurately forecast health care and other benefit costs, which could adversely affect our Health Care Benefits segment’s operating results. Premiums for our Insured Health Care Benefits products, which comprised 92% of our Health Care Benefits revenues for 2020, are priced in advance based on our forecasts of health care and other benefit costs during a fixed premium period, which is generally one year. These forecasts are typically developed several months before the fixed premium period begins, are influenced by historical data (and recent historical data in particular), are dependent on our ability to anticipate and detect medical cost trends and changes in our members’ behavior and health care utilization patterns and require a significant degree of judgment. For example, our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted in June of the year before the contract year. Cost increases in excess of our projections cannot be recovered in the fixed premium period through higher premiums. As 41 a result, our profits are particularly sensitive to the accuracy of our forecasts and our ability to anticipate and detect medical cost trends. Even relatively small differences between predicted and actual health care and other benefit costs as a percentage of premium revenues can result in significant adverse changes in our operating results. A number of factors contribute to rising health care and other benefit costs, including previously uninsured members entering the health care system, changes in members’ behavior and health care utilization patterns, turnover in our membership, additional government mandated benefits or other regulatory changes, changes in the health status of our members, the aging of the population and other changing demographic characteristics, advances in medical technology, increases in the number and cost of prescription drugs (including specialty pharmacy drugs and ultra-high cost drugs and therapies), direct-to-consumer marketing by drug manufacturers, the increasing influence of social media on our members’ health care utilization and other behaviors, changes in health care practices and general economic conditions (such as inflation and employment levels). In addition, government-imposed limitations on Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements to health plans and providers have caused the private sector to bear a greater share of increasing health care and other benefits costs over time, and future amendments or repeal or replacement of the ACA that increase the uninsured population may exacerbate this problem. Other factors that affect our health care and other benefit costs include changes as a result of the ACA, changes to the ACA and other changes in the regulatory environment, the evolution toward a consumer driven business model, new technologies, influenza related health care costs (which may be substantial and higher than we project), clusters of high-cost cases, epidemics or pandemics, health care provider and member fraud, and numerous other factors that are or may be beyond our control. For example, the 2020-2021 influenza season was impacted by efforts taken to reduce the spread of COVID-19; and the 2019-2020 influenza season had an earlier than average start and had a higher incidence of influenza than the 2018-2019 influenza season. Our Health Care Benefits segment’s operating results and competitiveness depend in large part on our ability to appropriately manage future health care and other benefit costs through underwriting criteria, product design, provider network configuration, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and medical management programs. Our medical cost management programs may not be successful and may have a smaller impact on health care and benefit costs than we expect. The factors described above may adversely affect our ability to predict and manage health care and other benefit costs, which can adversely affect our competitiveness and operating results. The reserves we hold for expected claims in our Insured Health Care Benefits products are based on estimates that involve an extensive degree of judgment and are inherently variable. Any reserve, including a premium deficiency reserve, may be insufficient. If actual claims exceed our estimates, our operating results could be materially adversely affected, and our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future costs may be limited. A large portion of health care claims are not submitted to us until after the end of the quarter in which services are rendered by providers to our members. Our reported health care costs payable for any particular period reflect our estimates of the ultimate cost of such claims as well as claims that have been reported to us but not yet paid. We also must estimate the amount of rebates payable under the MLR rules of the ACA, CMS and the OPM and the amounts payable by us to, and receivable by us from, the United States federal government under the ACA’s remaining premium stabilization program. Our estimates of health care costs payable are based on a number of factors, including those derived from historical claim experience, but this estimation process also makes use of extensive judgment. Considerable variability is inherent in such estimates, and the accuracy of the estimates is highly sensitive to changes in medical claims submission and processing patterns and/or procedures, turnover and other changes in membership, changes in product mix, changes in the utilization of medical and/or other covered services, including prescription drugs, changes in medical cost trends, changes in our medical management practices and the introduction of new benefits and products. We estimate health care costs payable periodically, and any resulting adjustments, including premium deficiency reserves, are reflected in current-period operating results within benefit costs. For example, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we established a premium deficiency reserve of $11 million and $4 million, respectively, related to Medicaid products in the Health Care Benefits segment. A worsening (or improvement) of health care cost trend rates or changes in claim payment patterns from those that we assumed in estimating health care costs payable as of December 31, 2020 would cause these estimates to change in the near term, and such a change could be material. Furthermore, if we are not able to accurately and promptly anticipate and detect medical cost trends or accurately estimate the cost of incurred but not yet reported claims or reported claims that have not been paid, our ability to take timely corrective actions to limit future health care costs and reflect our current benefit cost experience in our pricing process may be limited, which would further exacerbate the extent of any adverse impact on our operating results. These risks are particularly acute during and following periods when utilization of medical and/or other covered services and/or medical cost trends are below recent historical levels and in products where there is significant turnover in our membership each year, and such risks are 42 further magnified by the ACA and other legislation and regulations that limit our ability to price for our projected and/or experienced increases in utilization and/or medical cost trends. Our operating results are affected by the health of the economy in general and in the geographies we serve. Our businesses are affected by the U.S. economy and consumer confidence in general and in the geographies we serve, including various economic factors, including inflation and changes in consumer purchasing power, preferences and/or spending patterns. An unfavorable, uncertain or volatile economic environment could cause a decline in drug utilization, an increase in health care utilization and dampen demand for PBM services as well as consumer demand for products sold in our retail stores. If our customers’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain adequate financing, our customers may not be able to pay timely, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to us. Any inability of our customers to pay us for our products and services may adversely affect our businesses, operating results and cash flows. In addition, both state and federal government sponsored payers, as a result of budget deficits or spending reductions, may suspend payments or seek to reduce their health care expenditures resulting in our customers delaying payments to us or renegotiating their contracts with us. Further, economic conditions including interest rate fluctuations, changes in capital market conditions and regulatory changes may affect our ability to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, our ability to secure suitable store locations under acceptable terms, our ability to execute sale-leaseback transactions under acceptable terms and the value of our investment portfolio. Adverse changes in the U.S. economy, consumer confidence and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on our businesses and financial results. This adverse effect could be further exacerbated by the increasing prevalence of high deductible health plans and health plan designs favoring co-insurance over co-payments as members and other consumers may decide to postpone, or not to seek, medical treatment which may lead them to incur more expensive medical treatment in the future and/or decrease our prescription volumes. In addition, our Health Care Benefits membership remains concentrated in certain U.S. geographies and in certain industries. Unfavorable changes in health care or other benefit costs or reimbursement rates or increased competition in those geographic areas where our membership is concentrated could therefore have a disproportionately adverse effect on our Health Care Benefits segment’s operating results. Our Health Care Benefits membership has been and may continue to be affected by workforce reductions by our customers due to adverse and/or uncertain general economic conditions, especially in the U.S. geographies and industries where our membership is concentrated. As a result, we may not be able to profitably grow and diversify our Health Care Benefits membership geographically, by product type or by customer industry, and our revenues and operating results may be disproportionately affected by adverse changes affecting our customers. We are exposed to risks relating to the solvency of other insurers. We are subject to assessments under guaranty fund laws existing in all states for obligations of insolvent insurance companies (including long-term care insurers), HMOs, ACA co-ops and other payors to policyholders and claimants. For example, in the first quarter of 2017, Aetna recorded a discounted estimated liability expense of $231 million pretax for our estimated share of future assessments for long-term care insurer Penn Treaty Network America Insurance Company and one of its subsidiaries. Guaranty funds are maintained by state insurance commissioners to protect policyholders and claimants in the event that an insurer, HMO, ACA co-op and/or other payor becomes insolvent or is unable to meet its financial obligations. These funds are usually financed by assessments against insurers regulated by a state. Future assessments may have an adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. Extreme events, or the threat of extreme events, could materially increase our health care (including behavioral health) costs. Nuclear, biological or other attacks, whether as a result of war or terrorism, other man-made disasters, natural disasters, epidemics, pandemics and other extreme events can affect the U.S. economy in general, our industries and us specifically. In particular, such extreme events or the threat of such extreme events could result in significant health care (including behavioral health) costs, which also would be affected by the government’s actions and the responsiveness of public health agencies and other insurers. Such extreme events or the threat of such extreme events also could disrupt our supply chains and/or our distribution chains for the products we sell. In addition, our employees and those of our vendors are concentrated in certain large, metropolitan areas which may be particularly exposed to these events. Such events could adversely affect our businesses, 43 operating results and cash flows, and, in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability, particularly if our responses to such events are less adequate than those of our competitors. Risks From Changes in Public Policy and Other Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to potential changes in public policy, laws and regulations, including reform of the U.S. health care system, which can adversely affect our businesses. Entitlement program reform, if it occurs, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operations and/or operating results. The political environment in which we operate remains uncertain. It is reasonably possible that our business operations and operating results could be materially adversely affected by legislative, regulatory and public policy changes at the federal or state level, increased government involvement in drug reimbursement, pricing, purchasing and/or importation and/or increased regulation of PBMs, including: changes to the Medicare or Medicaid programs (including the block grant option outlined by CMS on January 30, 2020, the “block grant option”) or the regulatory environment for health care and related benefits, including the ACA; changes to laws or regulations governing drug reimbursement and/or pricing; changes to the laws and regulations governing PBMs’, PDPs’ and/or Managed Medicaid organizations’ interactions with government funded health care programs; changes to laws and/or regulations governing drug manufacturers’ rebates; changes to laws and/or regulations governing reimbursements paid to pharmacists by and/or reporting required by PBMs; changes to immigration policies and/or other public policy initiatives. It is not possible to predict whether or when any such changes will occur or what form any such changes may take (including through the use of U.S. Presidential Executive Orders). Other significant changes to health care and related benefits system legislation or regulation as well as changes with respect to tax and trade policies, tariffs and other government regulations affecting trade between the United States and other countries also are possible and could adversely affect our businesses. If we fail to respond adequately to such changes, including by implementing strategic and operational initiatives, or do not respond as effectively as our competitors, our businesses, operations and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In addition to efforts to amend, repeal or replace the ACA and related regulations, we expect the federal and state governments to continue to enact and seriously consider many broad-based legislative and regulatory proposals that will or could materially impact various aspects of the health care and related benefits system and our businesses. Potential modification to the ACA, including changes in enforcement and/or funding that further destabilize the Public Exchanges, as well as significant changes to Medicaid funding (including the block grant option) could impact the number of Americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage. Further changes to federal health care and related benefits laws, including the ACA, drug reimbursement and pricing laws, laws governing PBMs and/or laws governing PBMs’, PDPs’ and/or Managed Medicaid organizations’ interactions with government funded health care programs, are probable. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that new health care and related benefits legislation, future changes to the ACA or the implementation of or failure to implement the outstanding provisions of ACA, may have on our Pharmacy Services, retail pharmacy, LTC pharmacy and/or Health Care Benefits operations and/or operating results. The federal and many state governments also are considering changes in the interpretation, enforcement and/or application of existing programs, laws and regulations, including changes to payments under and funding of Medicare and Medicaid programs and increased regulation of PBMs. Further, changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to additional regulation of PBMs (including formulary management or other PBM services), drug pricing or purchasing, patent term extensions and/or purchase discount and/or rebate arrangements with drug manufacturers also could reduce the discounts or rebates we receive. Changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to claims processing and billing, including our ability to use MAC lists and collect transmission fees, also could adversely affect our profitability. For example, on October 29, 2020, the HHS released a final rule requiring health insurers to disclose drug pricing and cost-sharing information. The final rule requires group health plans and health insurance issuers in the individual and group markets to disclose cost-sharing information upon request, to a participant, beneficiary, or enrollee, which, unless otherwise indicated, for the purpose of the final rules includes an authorized representative, and requires plans and issuers to disclose in-network provider rates, historical out-of-network allowed amounts and the associated billed charges, and negotiated rates for prescription drugs. The public disclosure of insurer- or PBM-negotiated price concessions may result in drug manufacturers lowering discounts or rebates, resulting in higher drug costs for patients and impacting the ability of the Company to negotiate drug prices and provide competitive products and services to consumers. In addition, in November 2020, the HHS released the Rebate Rule, which eliminates the regulatory safe harbor from prosecution under the AKS for rebates from pharmaceutical companies to PBMs in Medicare Part D and in Medicaid MCOs, replacing it with two far narrower safe harbors designed to directly benefit patients with high out-of-pocket costs and to change the way PBMs are compensated. The new safe harbors are (i) for rebates which are passed on to the patient at the point of sale 44 and (ii) for flat service fee payments made to PBMs which cannot be tied to the list prices of drugs. The PCMA, which represents PBMs, has filed a suit in an effort to block the Rebate Rule, claiming that the Rebate Rule would lead to higher premiums in Medicare Part D and was adopted in an unlawful manner. It is unclear whether the Rebate Rule will be enforceable, whether pharmaceutical companies will respond by reducing list prices, whether list prices in the private market may also be reduced, and what the resulting impact will be to PBMs or the Company. We cannot predict the enactment or content of new legislation or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations or their enforcement, interpretation or application, or the effect they will have on our business operations or operating results, which could be materially adverse. Even if we could predict such matters, it is not possible to eliminate the adverse impact of public policy changes that would fundamentally change the dynamics of one or more of the industries in which we compete. Examples of such changes include: the federal or one or more state governments fundamentally restructuring or reducing the funding available for Medicare, Medicaid, dual eligible or dual eligible special needs plan programs, increasing its involvement in drug reimbursement, pricing, purchasing and/or importation, changing the laws and regulations governing PBMs’, PDPs’ and/or Managed Medicaid organizations’ interactions with government funded health care programs, changing the tax treatment of health or related benefits, or repealing or otherwise significantly altering the ACA. The likelihood of adverse changes remains high due to state and federal budgetary pressures, and our businesses and operating results could be materially and adversely affected by such changes, even if we correctly predict their occurrence. For more information on these matters, see “Government Regulation” included in Item 1 of this 10-K. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, many of which are highly complex, we could be subject to significant adverse regulatory actions or suffer brand and reputational harm. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by state, federal and international governmental authorities. The laws and regulations governing our operations and interpretations of those laws and regulations are increasing in number and complexity, change frequently and can be inconsistent or conflict with one another. In general, these laws and regulations are designed to benefit and protect customers, members and providers rather than us or our investors. In addition, the governmental authorities that regulate our businesses have broad latitude to make, interpret and enforce the laws and regulations that govern us and continue to interpret and enforce those laws and regulations more strictly and more aggressively each year. We also must follow various restrictions on certain of our businesses and the payment of dividends by certain of our subsidiaries put in place by certain state regulators. Certain of our Pharmacy Services and Retail/LTC operations, products and services are subject to: • the clinical quality, patient safety and other risks inherent in the dispensing, packaging and distribution of drugs and other health care products and services, including claims related to purported dispensing and other operational errors (any failure by our Pharmacy Services and/or Retail/LTC operations to adhere to the laws and regulations applicable to the dispensing of drugs could subject us to civil and criminal penalties); • federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern our relationship with drug manufacturers, customers and consumers; • compliance requirements under ERISA, including fiduciary obligations in connection with the development and implementation of items such as drug formularies and preferred drug listings; and • federal and state legislative proposals and/or regulatory activity that could adversely affect pharmacy benefit industry practices. Our Health Care Benefits products are highly regulated, particularly those that serve Medicare, Medicaid, dual eligible, dual eligible special needs and small group Commercial customers and members. The laws and regulations governing participation in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, Medicaid, dual eligible and dual eligible special needs plan programs are complex, are subject to interpretation and can expose us to penalties for non-compliance. The scope of the practices and activities that are prohibited by federal and state false claims acts is the subject of pending litigation. Claims under federal and state false claims acts can be brought by the government or by private individuals on behalf of the government through a qui tam or “whistleblower” suit, and we are a defendant in a number of such proceedings. If we are convicted of fraud or other criminal conduct in the performance of a government program or if there is an adverse decision against us under the False Claims Act, we may be temporarily or permanently suspended from participating in government health care programs, including Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, Medicaid, dual eligible and dual eligible special needs plan programs, and we also may be required to pay significant fines and/or other monetary penalties. Whistleblower suits have 45 resulted in significant settlements between governmental agencies and health care companies. The significant incentives and protections provided to whistleblowers under applicable law increase the risk of whistleblower suits. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations that apply to government programs, we could be subject to criminal fines, civil penalties, premium refunds, prohibitions on marketing or active or passive enrollment of members, corrective actions, termination of our contracts or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to participate in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, Medicaid, dual eligible, dual eligible special needs plan and other programs and on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our businesses, profitability and growth also may be adversely affected by (i) judicial and regulatory decisions that change and/or expand the interpretations of existing statutes and regulations, impose medical or bad faith liability, increase our responsibilities under ERISA or the remedies available under ERISA, or reduce the scope of ERISA pre-emption of state law claims or (ii) other legislation and regulations. For example, in December 2020, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld an Arkansas law that, among other things, mandates a particular pricing methodology, establishes an appeals process for a pharmacy when the reimbursement is below the pharmacy’s acquisition cost, permits a pharmacy to reverse and rebill if they cannot procure the drug from its wholesaler at a price equal to or less than the reimbursement rate, prohibits a PBM from reimbursing a pharmacy less than the amount it reimburses an affiliate on a per unit basis, and permits a pharmacy to decline to dispense if the reimbursement is lower than the pharmacy’s acquisition cost. If our compliance or other systems and processes fail or are deemed inadequate, we may suffer brand and reputational harm and become subject to regulatory actions and/or litigation. In addition to being subject to extensive and complex regulations, many of our contracts with customers include detailed requirements. In order to be eligible to offer certain products or bid on certain contracts, we must demonstrate that we have robust systems and processes in place that are designed to maintain compliance with all applicable legal, regulatory and contractual requirements. These systems and processes frequently are reviewed and audited by our customers and regulators. If our systems and processes designed to maintain compliance with applicable legal and contractual requirements, and to prevent and detect instances of, or the potential for, non-compliance fail or are deemed inadequate, we may suffer brand and reputational harm and be subject to regulatory actions, litigation and other proceedings which may result in damages, fines, suspension or loss of licensure, suspension or exclusion from participation in government programs and/or other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition. We routinely are subject to litigation and other adverse legal proceedings, including class actions and qui tam actions. Many of these proceedings seek substantial damages which may not be covered by insurance. These proceedings are costly to defend, may result in changes in our business practices, harm our brand and reputation and adversely affect our businesses and operating results. PBM, retail pharmacy, mail order pharmacy, specialty pharmacy, LTC pharmacy and health care and related benefits are highly regulated industries whose participants frequently are subject to litigation and other adverse legal proceedings. We are currently subject to various litigation and arbitration matters, investigations, regulatory audits, inspections, government inquiries, and regulatory and other legal proceedings, both inside and outside the U.S. Outside the U.S., contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the U.S. Litigation related to our provision of professional services in our medical clinics, pharmacies and LTC operations is increasing as we expand our services along the continuum of health care. Litigation, and particularly securities, derivative, collective or class action and qui tam litigation, is often expensive and disruptive. Many of the legal proceedings against us seek substantial damages (including non-economic or punitive damages and treble damages), and certain of these proceedings also seek changes in our business practices. While we currently have insurance coverage for some potential liabilities, other potential liabilities may not be covered by insurance, insurers may dispute coverage and/or the amount of our insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded or costs incurred. In addition, some types of damages, like punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance, and in some jurisdictions the coverage of punitive damages is prohibited. Insurance coverage for all or some forms of liability also may become unavailable or prohibitively expensive in the future. The outcome of litigation and other adverse legal proceedings is always uncertain, and outcomes that are not justifiable by the evidence or existing law or regulation can and do occur, and the costs incurred frequently are substantial regardless of the outcome. Litigation and other adverse legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our businesses, operating results and/or cash flows because of brand and reputational harm to us caused by such proceedings, the cost of defending such proceedings, 46 the cost of settlement or judgments against us, or the changes in our operations that could result from such proceedings. See Item 3 of this 10-K for additional information. We frequently are subject to regular and special governmental audits, investigations and reviews that could result in changes to our business practices and also could result in material refunds, fines, penalties, civil liabilities, criminal liabilities and other sanctions. As one of the largest national retail, mail order, specialty and LTC pharmacy, PBM and health care and related benefits providers, we frequently are subject to regular and special governmental market conduct and other audits, investigations and reviews by, and we receive subpoenas and other requests for information from, various federal and state agencies, regulatory authorities, attorneys general, committees, subcommittees and members of the U.S. Congress and other state, federal and international governmental authorities. For example, we have received CIDs from, and provided documents and information to, the Civil Division of the DOJ in connection with a current investigation of our patient chart review processes in connection with risk adjustment data submissions under Parts C and D of the Medicare program. CMS and the OIG also are auditing the risk adjustment-related data of certain of our Medicare Advantage plans, and the number of such audits continues to increase. Several such audits, investigations and reviews by governmental authorities currently are pending, some of which may be resolved in 2021, the results of which may be adverse to us. Federal and state governments have made investigating and prosecuting health care and other insurance fraud, waste and abuse a priority. Fraud, waste and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing for unnecessary medical and/or other covered services, improper marketing and violations of patient privacy rights. The regulations and contractual requirements applicable to us and other industry participants are complex and subject to change, making it necessary for us to invest significant resources in complying with our regulatory and contractual requirements. Ongoing vigorous law enforcement and the highly technical regulatory scheme mean that our compliance efforts in this area will continue to require significant resources. In addition, our medical costs and the medical expenses of our Health Care Benefits ASC customers may be adversely affected if we do not prevent or detect fraudulent activity by providers and/or members. Regular and special governmental audits, investigations and reviews by federal, state and international regulators could result in changes to our business practices, and also could result in significant or material premium refunds, fines, penalties, civil liabilities, criminal liabilities or other sanctions, including suspension or exclusion from participation in government programs and suspension or loss of licensure. Any of these audits, investigations or reviews could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition or result in significant liabilities and negative publicity for us. See “Legal and Regulatory Proceedings” in Note 16 ‘‘Commitments and Contingencies’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information. Our litigation and regulatory risk profile are changing as we offer new products and services and expand in business areas beyond our historical core businesses of Pharmacy Services, Retail/LTC and Health Care Benefits. Historically, we focused primarily on providing Pharmacy Services, Retail/LTC and Health Care Benefits products and services. As a result of our transformation program and other innovation initiatives, we are expanding our presence in the health care space and plan to offer new products and services (such as the home hemodialysis device we are developing) which present a different litigation and regulatory risk profile than the products and services that we historically have offered. The increased volume of business in areas beyond our historical core businesses and new products and services subject us to litigation and regulatory risks that are different from the risks of providing Pharmacy Services, Retail/LTC and Health Care Benefits products and services and increase significantly our exposure to other risks. We face unique regulatory and other challenges in our Medicare and Medicaid businesses. We are seeking to substantially grow the Medicare and Medicaid membership in our Health Care Benefits segment in 2020 and over the next several years. We face unique regulatory and other challenges that may inhibit the growth and profitability of those businesses. • In April 2020, CMS issued a final notice detailing final Medicare Advantage benchmark payment rates for 2021 (the “Final Notice”). Overall, we project the benchmark rates in the Final Notice will increase funding for our Medicare Advantage 47 business, excluding the impact of the HIF in 2020, by approximately 1.8% in 2021 compared to 2020. This 2021 rate increase only partially offsets the challenge we face from the impact of the increasing cost of medical care (including prescription medications) and CMS local and national coverage decisions that require us to pay for services and supplies that are not factored into our bids and creates continued pressure on our Medicare Advantage operating results. In January 2021, CMS issued its final notice detailing final 2022 Medicare Advantage benchmark payment rates. Final 2022 Medicare Advantage rates resulted in an increase in industry benchmark rates of approximately 4.1%. We cannot predict future Medicare funding levels, the impact of future federal budget actions or ensure that such changes or actions will not have an adverse effect on our Medicare operating results. • The organic expansion of our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D service area is subject to the ability of CMS to process our requests for service area expansions and our ability to build cost competitive provider networks in the expanded service areas that meet applicable network adequacy requirements. CMS’ decisions on our requests for service area expansions also may be affected adversely by compliance issues that arise each year in our Medicare operations. • CMS regularly audits our performance to determine our compliance with CMS’s regulations and our contracts with CMS and to assess the quality of the services we provide to our Medicare members. As a result of these audits, we may be subject to significant or material retroactive adjustments to and/or withholding of certain premiums and fees, fines, criminal liability, civil monetary penalties, CMS imposed sanctions (including suspension or exclusion from participation in government programs) or other restrictions on our Medicare, Medicaid and other businesses, including suspension or loss of licensure. • “Star ratings” from CMS for our Medicare Advantage plans will continue to have a significant effect on our plans’ operating results. Since 2015, only Medicare Advantage plans with a star rating of four or higher (out of five) are eligible for a quality bonus in their basic premium rates. CMS continues to change its rating system to make achieving and maintaining a four or higher star rating more difficult. Our star ratings and past performance scores are adversely affected by the compliance issues that arise each year in our Medicare operations. If our star ratings fall below four for a significant portion of our Medicare Advantage membership or do not match the performance of our competitors or the star rating quality bonuses are reduced or eliminated, our revenues, operating results and cash flows may be significantly adversely affected. • Payments we receive from CMS for our Medicare Advantage and Part D businesses also are subject to risk adjustment based on the health status of the individuals we enroll. Elements of that risk adjustment mechanism continue to be challenged by the DOJ, the OIG and CMS itself. Substantial changes in the risk adjustment mechanism, including changes that result from enforcement or audit actions, could materially affect the amount of our Medicare reimbursement, require us to raise prices or reduce the benefits we offer to Medicare beneficiaries, and potentially limit our (and the industry’s) participation in the Medicare program. • Changes to the ability of PBMs to have pharmacy performance programs in place for clients and report payments via direct and indirect reporting mechanisms could impact the Pharmacy Services business. • Medicare Part D has resulted in increased utilization of prescription medications and puts pressure on our pharmacy gross margin rates due to regulatory and competitive pressures. Further, as a result of the ACA and changes to the retiree drug subsidy rules, clients of our PBM business could decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits to their Medicare-eligible members. To the extent this phenomenon occurs, the adverse effects of increasing customer migration into Medicare Part D may outweigh the benefits we realize from growth of our Medicare Part D products. • Our Medicare Part D operating results and our ability to expand our Medicare Part D business could be adversely affected if: the cost and complexity of Medicare Part D exceed management’s expectations or prevent effective program implementation or administration; changes to the regulations regarding how drug costs are reported for Medicare Part D are implemented in a manner that adversely affects the profitability of our Medicare Part D business; changes to the applicable regulations impact our ability to retain fees from third parties including network pharmacies; the government alters Medicare Part D program requirements or reduces funding because of the higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of Medicare Part D or for other reasons; the government mandated use of point-of-sale manufacturer’s rebates effective in 2022 continues; the government makes changes to how pharmacy pay-for-performance is calculated; or reinsurance thresholds are reduced below their current levels. • We have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data for our Medicaid products due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. As states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could affect the Medicaid premium rates we receive and how Medicaid membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our Medicaid operating results and cash flows and/or our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain Medicaid programs. 48 • Federal funding for expanded Medicaid coverage began to decrease in 2017. This reduction is causing states to re-evaluate funding for their Medicaid expansions. That re-evaluation may adversely affect Medicaid payment rates, our Medicaid membership in those states, our revenues, our MLRs and our operating results. • If we fail to report and correct errors discovered through our own auditing procedures or during a CMS audit or otherwise fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to fines, civil monetary penalties or other sanctions, including fines and penalties under the False Claims Act, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to participate in Medicare Advantage, Part D or other government programs, and on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. • In the second quarter of 2014, CMS issued a final rule implementing ACA requirements that Medicare Advantage and PDP plans report and refund to CMS overpayments that those plans receive from CMS. However, CMS’s statements in formalized guidance regarding “overpayments” to Medicare Advantage plans appear to be inconsistent with CMS’s prior RADV audit guidance. These statements appear to equate each Medicare Advantage risk adjustment data error with an “overpayment” without reconciliation to the principles underlying the fee for service adjustment comparison contemplated by CMS’s RADV audit methodology. The precise interpretation, impact and legality of the final rule are not clear and are subject to pending litigation. If Medicare Advantage plans were not paid based on payment model principles that align with the requirements of the Social Security Act or such payments were not implemented correctly, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition. • Certain of our Medicaid contracts require the submission of complete and correct encounter data. The accurate and timely reporting of encounter data is increasingly important to the success of our Medicaid programs because more states are using encounter data to determine compliance with performance standards and, in part, to set premium rates. We have expended and may continue to expend additional effort and incur significant additional costs to collect accurate, or to correct inaccurate or incomplete, encounter data and have been and could be exposed to premium withholding, operating sanctions and financial fines and penalties for noncompliance. We have experienced challenges in obtaining complete and accurate encounter data due to difficulties with providers and third-party vendors submitting claims in a timely fashion in the proper format, and with state agencies in coordinating such submissions. As states increase their reliance on encounter data, these difficulties could affect the Medicaid premium rates we receive and how Medicaid membership is assigned to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our Medicaid operating results and cash flows and/or our ability to bid for, and continue to participate in, certain Medicaid programs. • Our businesses that dispense drugs also face challenges in the Medicaid space. The ACA made several significant changes to Medicaid rebates and to reimbursement rates. One of these changes was to revise the definition of the Average Manufacturer Price, a pricing element common to most payment formulas, and the reimbursement formula for generic drugs. This change has adversely affected the reimbursements we receive when we dispense prescription drugs to Medicaid recipients. Programs funded in whole or in part by the U.S. federal government account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we expect that percentage to increase. Programs funded in whole or in part by the U.S. federal government account for a significant portion of our revenues, and we expect that percentage to increase. As our government funded businesses grow, our exposure to changes in federal and state government policy with respect to and/or regulation of the various government funded programs in which we participate also increases. Our revenues from government funded programs, including in Health Care Benefits’ Medicare, Medicaid, dual eligible and dual eligible special needs plan businesses and from government customers in its Commercial business, are dependent on annual funding by the federal government and/or applicable state or local governments. Federal, state and local governments have the right to cancel or not to renew their contracts with us on short notice without cause or if funds are not available. Funding for these programs is dependent on many factors outside our control, including general economic conditions, continuing government efforts to contain health care costs and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state or local level and general political issues and priorities. The U.S. federal government and our other government customers also may reduce funding for health care or other programs, cancel or decline to renew contracts with us, or make changes that adversely affect the number of persons eligible for certain programs, the services provided to enrollees in such programs, our premiums and our administrative and health care and other benefit costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and cash flows. When federal funding is delayed, suspended or curtailed, we continue to receive, and we remain liable for and are required to fund, claims from providers for providing services to beneficiaries of federally funded health benefits programs in which we participate. An extended federal government shutdown or a delay by Congress in raising the federal government’s debt ceiling 49 also could lead to a delay, reduction, suspension or cancellation of federal government spending and a significant increase in interest rates that could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, our ability to access the capital markets and our businesses, operating results, cash flows and liquidity. Possible changes in industry pricing benchmarks and drug pricing generally can adversely affect our PBM and Retail/LTC businesses. It is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace AWP or Wholesale Acquisition Cost (“WAC”), which are the pricing references used for many of our PBM and LTC client contracts, drug purchase agreements, retail network contracts, specialty payor agreements and other contracts with third party payors in connection with the reimbursement of drug payments. In addition, many state Medicaid fee-for-service programs have established pharmacy network payments on the basis of Actual Acquisition Cost (“AAC”). The use of an AAC basis in FFS Medicaid could have an impact on reimbursement practices in Health Care Benefits’ Commercial and other Government products. Future changes to the use of AWP, WAC or to other published pricing benchmarks used to establish drug pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by federal and state health care programs and/or other payors, could impact the reimbursement we receive from Medicare and Medicaid programs, the reimbursement we receive from our PBM clients and other payors and/or our ability to negotiate rebates and/or discounts with drug manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs and retail pharmacies. A failure or inability to fully offset any increased prices or costs or to modify our operations to mitigate the impact of such increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our projections. We cannot predict the effect of these possible changes on our businesses. We may not be able to obtain adequate premium rate increases in our Insured Health Care Benefits products, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues, MBRs and operating results and could magnify the adverse impact of increases in health care and other benefit costs and of ACA assessments, fees and taxes. Premium rates for our Insured Health Care Benefits products generally must be filed with state insurance regulators and are subject to their approval, which creates risk for us in the current political and regulatory environment. The ACA generally requires a review by HHS in conjunction with state regulators of premium rate increases that exceed a federally specified threshold (or lower state-specific thresholds set by states determined by HHS to have adequate processes). Rate reviews can magnify the adverse impact on our operating margins, MBRs and operating results of increases in health care and other benefit costs, increased utilization of covered services, and ACA assessments, fees and taxes, by restricting our ability to reflect these increases and/or these assessments, fees and taxes in our pricing. Further, our ability to reflect ACA assessments, fees and taxes in our Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP premium rates is limited. Since 2013, HHS has issued determinations to health plans that their premium rate increases were “unreasonable,” and we continue to experience challenges to appropriate premium rate increases in certain states. Regulators or legislatures in several states have implemented or are considering limits on premium rate increases, either by enforcing existing legal requirements more stringently or proposing different regulatory standards. Regulators or legislatures in several states also have conducted hearings on proposed premium rate increases, which can result, and in some instances have resulted, in substantial delays in implementing proposed rate increases even if they ultimately are approved. Our plans can be excluded from participating in small group Public Exchanges if they are deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases. Any significant rate increases we may request heighten the risks of adverse publicity, adverse regulatory action and adverse selection and the likelihood that our requested premium rate increases will be denied, reduced or delayed, which could adversely affect our MBRs and lead to operating margin compression. We anticipate continued regulatory and legislative action to increase regulation of premium rates in our Insured Health Care Benefits products. We may not be able to obtain rates that are actuarially justified or that are sufficient to make our policies profitable in one or more product lines or geographies. If we are unable to obtain adequate premium rates and/or premium rate increases, it could materially and adversely affect our operating margins and MBRs and our ability to earn adequate returns on Insured Health Care Benefits products in one or more states or cause us to withdraw from certain geographies and/or products. 50 Minimum MLR rebate requirements limit the level of margin we can earn in our Insured Health Care Benefits products while leaving us exposed to higher than expected medical costs. Challenges to our minimum MLR rebate methodology and/or reports could adversely affect our operating results. The ACA’s minimum MLR rebate requirements limit the level of margin we can earn in Health Care Benefits’ Commercial Insured and Medicare Insured businesses. CMS minimum MLR rebate regulations limit the level of margin we can earn in our Medicaid Insured business. Certain portions of our Health Care Benefits Medicaid and Federal Employees Health Benefits (“FEHB”) program business also are subject to minimum MLR rebate requirements in addition to but separate from those imposed by the ACA. Minimum MLR rebate requirements leave us exposed to medical costs that are higher than those reflected in our pricing. The process supporting the management and determination of the amount of MLR rebates payable is complex and requires judgment, and the minimum MLR reporting requirements are detailed. CMS has also proposed, but not yet finalized, a definition of “prescription drug price concessions” for commercial MLR calculation purposes, which would make additional PBM information available to plans and the HHS, potentially further complicating the MLR calculation process. Federal and state auditors are challenging our Commercial Health Care Benefits business’ compliance with the ACA’s minimum MLR requirements as well as our FEHB plans’ compliance with OPM’s FEHB program-specific minimum MLR requirements. Our Medicare and Medicaid contracts also are subject to minimum MLR audits. If a Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D contract pays minimum MLR rebates for three consecutive years, it will become ineligible to enroll new members. If a Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D contract pays such rebates for five consecutive years, it will be terminated by CMS. Additional challenges to our methodology and/or reports relating to minimum MLR and related rebates by federal and state regulators and private litigants are reasonably possible. The outcome of these audits and additional challenges could adversely affect our operating results. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in laws and policies governing employers and by union organizing activity. The federal and certain state legislatures continue to consider and pass legislation that increases our costs of doing business, including increased minimum wages and requiring employers to provide paid sick leave or paid family leave. In addition, our employee-related operating costs may be increased by union organizing activity. If we are unable to reflect these increased expenses in our pricing or otherwise modify our operations to mitigate the effects of such increases, our operating results will be adversely affected. We face international political, legal and compliance, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that may be more significant than in our domestic operations. We significantly expanded our international operations as a result of the Aetna Acquisition. As a result of our expanded international operations, we face political, legal, compliance, operational, regulatory, economic and other risks that we do not face or that are more significant than in our domestic operations. These risks vary widely by country and include varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands, government intervention and censorship, discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets and pricing constraints. Our international products need to meet country-specific customer and member preferences as well as country-specific legal requirements, including those related to licensing, data privacy, data storage and data protection. Our international operations increase our exposure to, and require us to devote significant management resources to implement controls and systems to comply with, the privacy and data protection laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as the EU’s GDPR, and the anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws of the United States (including the FCPA) and the United Kingdom (including the UK Bribery Act) and similar laws in other jurisdictions. Implementing our compliance policies, internal controls and other systems upon our expansion into new countries and geographies may require the investment of considerable management time and financial and other resources over several years before any significant revenues or profits are generated. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, restrictions or outright prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and significant brand and reputational harm. We must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of our global infrastructure and make appropriate changes, and must have effective change management processes and internal controls in place to address changes in our businesses and operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our brand, reputation, businesses, operating results and/or financial condition. Our international operations require us to overcome logistical and other challenges based on differing languages, cultures, legal and regulatory schemes and time zones. Our international operations encounter labor laws, standards and customs that can be difficult and make employee relationships less flexible than in our domestic operations and expensive to modify or terminate. In 51 some countries we are required to, or choose to, operate with local business associates, which requires us to manage our relationships with these third parties and may reduce our operational flexibility and ability to quickly respond to business challenges. In some countries we may be exposed to currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds internationally or converting local currencies into U.S. dollars or other currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our revenues, operating results and cash flows from our international operations. Some of our operations are, and are increasingly likely to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. Any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks on our international operations may not be effective. Risks Associated with Mergers, Acquisitions, and Divestitures We may be unable to successfully integrate companies we acquire. Upon the closing of any acquisition we complete, we will need to successfully integrate the products, services and related assets, as well as internal controls into our business operations. If an acquisition is consummated, the integration of the acquired business, its products, services and related assets into our company also may be complex and time-consuming and, if the integration is not fully successful, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits, operating and cost synergies and/or growth opportunities of an acquisition. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: • Integrating personnel, operations and systems (including internal control environments and compliance policies), while maintaining focus on producing and delivering consistent, high quality products and services; • Coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • Disrupting management’s attention from our ongoing business operations; • Retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; and • Managing inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits, operating and cost synergies, innovations and operations efficiencies or growth opportunities of an acquisition, as well as any delays or additional expenses encountered in the integration process, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and operating results. Furthermore, acquisitions, even if successfully integrated, may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products, services or service areas, and expose us to additional liabilities associated with an acquired business including risks and liabilities associated with litigation involving the acquired business. Any one of these challenges or risks could impair our ability to realize any benefit from our acquisitions after we have expended resources on them. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and other inorganic growth opportunities, which may be unsuccessful, cause us to assume unanticipated liabilities, disrupt our existing businesses, be dilutive or lead us to assume significant debt, among other things. We expect to continue to pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and other inorganic growth opportunities as part of our growth strategy. In addition to the integration risks noted above, some other risks we face with respect to acquisitions and other inorganic growth strategies include: • we frequently compete with other firms, some of which may have greater financial and other resources and a greater tolerance for risk, to acquire attractive companies; • the acquired, alliance and/or joint venture businesses may not perform as projected; • the goodwill or other intangible assets established as a result of our acquisitions may be incorrectly valued or may become impaired; for example, in 2018 we took $6.1 billion of goodwill impairment charges related to our LTC reporting unit within the Retail/LTC segment; • we may assume unanticipated liabilities, including those that were not disclosed to us or which we underestimated; • the acquired businesses, or the pursuit of other inorganic growth strategies, could disrupt or compete with our existing businesses, distract management, result in the loss of key employees, divert resources, result in tax costs or inefficiencies and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls, information technology systems, policies, procedures and performance; 52 • as we did in the Aetna Acquisition, we may finance future acquisitions and other inorganic growth strategies by issuing common stock for some or all of the purchase price, which would dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders; • as we did in the Aetna Acquisition, we may incur significant debt in connection with acquisitions (whether to finance acquisitions or by assuming debt from the businesses we acquire); • we may not have the expertise to manage and profitably grow the businesses we acquire, and we may need to rely on the retention of key personnel and other suppliers of businesses we acquire, which may be difficult or impossible to accomplish; • we may enter into merger or purchase agreements but, due to reasons within or outside our control, fail to complete the related transactions, which could result in termination fees or other penalties that could be material, cause material disruptions to our businesses and operations and adversely affect our brand and reputation; • in order to complete a proposed acquisition, we may be required to divest certain portions of our business, for which we may not be able to obtain favorable pricing; • as is the case with the Aetna Acquisition and our acquisition of Omnicare, Inc., we may be involved in litigation related to mergers or acquisitions, including for matters that occurred prior to the applicable closing, which may be costly to defend and may result in adverse rulings against us that could be material; and • the integration into our businesses of the businesses and entities we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and regulations apply to us, including subjecting us to laws and regulations that did not previously apply to us. In addition, joint ventures present risks that are different from acquisitions, including selection of appropriate joint venture parties, initial and ongoing governance of the joint venture, joint venture compliance activities (including compliance with applicable CMS requirements), growing the joint venture’s business in a manner acceptable to all the parties, including other providers in the networks that include joint ventures, maintaining positive relationships among the joint venture parties and the joint venture’s customers, and member and business disruption that may occur upon joint venture termination. Risks Related to Our Operations Failure to meet customer expectations may harm our brand and reputation, our ability to retain and grow our customer base and membership and our operating results and cash flows. Our ability to attract and retain customers and members is dependent upon providing cost effective, quality customer service operations (such as call center operations, PBM functions, retail pharmacy and LTC services, retail, mail order and specialty pharmacy prescription delivery, claims processing, customer case installation and online access and tools) that meet or exceed our customers’ and members’ expectations, either directly or through vendors. As we seek to reduce general and administrative expenses, we must balance the potential impact of cost-saving measures on our customers and other services and performances. If we misjudge the effects of such measures, customers and other services may be adversely affected. We depend on third parties for certain of our customer service, PBM and prescription delivery operations. If we or our vendors fail to provide service that meets our customers’ and members’ expectations, we may have difficulty retaining or profitably growing our customer base and/or membership, which could adversely affect our operating results. For example, noncompliance with any privacy or security laws or regulations or any security breach involving us or one of our third-party vendors could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results, brand and reputation. We and our vendors have experienced and continue to experience cyber attacks. We can provide no assurance that we or our vendors will be able to detect, prevent or contain the effects of such attacks or other information security (including cybersecurity) risks or threats in the future. We and our vendors have experienced diverse cyber attacks and expect to continue to experience cyber attacks going forward. As examples, the Company and its vendors have experienced attempts to gain access to systems, denial of service attacks, attempted malware infections, account takeovers, scanning activity, and phishing emails. Attacks can originate from external criminals, terrorists, nation states, or internal actors. The Company is dedicating and will continue to dedicate significant resources and incur significant expenses to maintain and update on an ongoing basis the systems and processes that are designed to mitigate the information security risks it faces and protect the security of its computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets against attempts by unauthorized parties to obtain access to confidential information, disrupt or degrade service, or cause other damage. The impact of cyber attacks has not been material to the Company’s operations or operating results through December 31, 2020. The Board and its Audit Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are regularly informed regarding the Company’s information security policies, practices and status. 53 A compromise of our information security controls or of those businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers and clients, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could adversely affect our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Moreover, a data security breach could require that we expend significant resources related to our information systems and infrastructure, and could distract management and other key personnel from performing their primary operational duties. We also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of third parties we interact with, including key payors and vendors. The costs of attempting to protect against the foregoing risks and the costs of responding to a cyber-incident are significant. Large scale data breaches at other entities increase the challenge we and our vendors face in maintaining the security of our information technology systems and proprietary information and of our customers’, members’ and other constituents’ sensitive information. Following a cyber-incident, our and/or our vendors’ remediation efforts may not be successful, and a cyber-incident could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers and members. In addition, breaches of our and/or our vendors’ security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary information or confidential information about us, our customers, our members or other third-parties, could expose our customers’, members’ and other constituents’ private information and our customers, members and other constituents to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, and result in investigations, regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, loss of customers, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our brand, reputation, businesses, operating results and cash flows. Data governance failures can adversely affect our reputation, businesses and prospects. Our use and disclosure of members’, customers’ and other constituents’ sensitive information is subject to complex regulations at multiple levels. We would be adversely affected if we or our business associates or other vendors fail to adequately protect members’, customers’ or other constituents’ sensitive information. Our information systems are critical to the operation of our businesses. We collect, process, maintain, retain, evaluate, utilize and distribute large amounts of personal health and financial information and other confidential and sensitive data about our customers, members and other constituents in the ordinary course of our businesses. Some of our information systems rely upon third party systems, including cloud service providers, to accomplish these tasks. The use and disclosure of such information is regulated at the federal, state and international levels, and these laws, rules and regulations are subject to change and increased enforcement activity, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act which went into effect January 1, 2020, the EU’s GDPR which began to apply across the EU during 2018 and the audit program implemented by HHS under HIPAA. In some cases, such laws, rules and regulations also apply to our vendors and/or may hold us liable for any violations by our vendors. International laws, rules and regulations governing the use and disclosure of such information are generally more stringent than U.S. laws and regulations, and they vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Noncompliance with any privacy or security laws or regulations, or any security breach, cyber attack or cybersecurity breach, and any incident involving the theft, misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, sensitive or confidential customer, member or other constituent information, whether by us, by one of our business associates or vendors or by another third party, could require us to expend significant resources to remediate any damage, could interrupt our operations and could adversely affect our brand and reputation, membership and operating results and also could expose and/or has exposed us to mandatory disclosure to the media, litigation (including class action litigation), governmental investigations and enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Our businesses depend on our customers’, members’ and other constituents’ willingness to entrust us with their health related and other sensitive personal information. Events that adversely affect that trust, including inadequate disclosure to our members or customers of our uses of their information, failing to keep our information technology systems and our customers’, members’ and other constituents’ sensitive information secure from significant attack, theft, damage, loss or unauthorized disclosure or access, whether as a result of our action or inaction (including human error) or that of our business associates, vendors or other third parties, could adversely affect our brand and reputation, membership and operating results and also could expose and/or has exposed us to mandatory disclosure to the media, litigation (including class action litigation), governmental investigations and enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, adverse actions against our licenses to do business and/or injunctive relief, any of which 54 could adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows or financial condition. Large scale data breaches at other entities increase the challenge we and our vendors face in maintaining the security of our information technology systems and proprietary information and of our customers’, members’ and other constituents’ sensitive information. There can be no assurance that additional such failures will not occur, or if any do occur, that we will detect them or that they can be sufficiently remediated. Product liability, product recall or personal injury issues could damage our reputation and have a significant adverse effect on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition. The products that we sell could become subject to contamination, product tampering, mislabeling, recall or other damage. In addition, errors in the dispensing and packaging of drugs and consuming drugs in a manner that is not prescribed could lead to serious injury or death. Product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the drugs or other products we sell or services we provide. For example, we are a defendant in hundreds of litigation proceedings relating to opioids and the sale of products containing talc. Our businesses involve the provision of professional services, including by pharmacists, physician assistants, nurses and nurse practitioners, which exposes us to professional liability claims. Should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage available under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us from third parties may not be adequate to protect us against the financial impact of the related claims. We also may not be able to maintain our existing levels of insurance on acceptable terms in the future. A product liability or personal injury issue or judgment against us or a product recall could damage our reputation and have a significant adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and/or financial condition. We face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. Further, managing succession for, and retention of, key executives is critical to our success, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our businesses, operating results and/or future performance. Our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced employees is essential to meet our current and future goals and objectives. There is no guarantee we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that competition among potential employers will not result in increased compensation and/or benefits costs. If we are unable to retain existing employees or attract additional employees, or we experience an unexpected loss of leadership, we could experience a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and/or future performance. In addition, our failure to adequately plan for succession of senior management and other key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and/or future performance. The succession plans we have in place and our employment arrangements with certain key executives do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us. Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract and motivate internal sales personnel and independent third-party brokers, consultants and agents. New distribution channels create new disintermediation risk. We may be subject to penalties or other regulatory actions as a result of the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling our products. Our products are sold primarily through our sales personnel, who frequently work with independent brokers, consultants and agents who assist in the production and servicing of business. The independent brokers, consultants and agents generally are not dedicated to us exclusively and may frequently recommend and/or market health care benefits products of our competitors. Accordingly, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. Our sales could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract, retain or motivate sales personnel and third-party brokers, consultants and agents, or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to this sales network regarding our complex product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. This risk is heightened as we develop, operate and expand our consumer-oriented products and services and we expand in the health care space and our business model evolves to include a greater focus on consumers and direct-to-consumer sales, such as competing for sales on Insurance Exchanges. New distribution channels for our products and services continue to emerge, including Private Exchanges operated by health care consultants and technology companies. These channels may make it more difficult for us to directly engage consumers and other customers in the selection and management of their health care benefits, in health care utilization and in the effective navigation of the health care system. We also may be challenged by new technologies and marketplace entrants that could interfere with our existing relationships with customers and health plan members in these areas. 55 In addition, there have been several investigations regarding the marketing practices of brokers and agents selling health care and other insurance products and the payments they receive. These investigations have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and brokers and agents marketing and selling those companies’ products. For example, CMS and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of brokers and agents who market Medicare products. These investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans and/or changes to industry practices, which could adversely affect our ability to market our products. Failure of our businesses to effectively collaborate could prevent us from maximizing our operating results. To maximize our overall enterprise value, our various businesses need to collaborate effectively. Our businesses need to be aligned in order to prioritize goals and coordinate the design of new products intended to utilize the offerings of multiple businesses, including our transformation and enterprise modernization programs. In addition, misaligned incentives, information siloes, ineffective product development and failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures, for example significant financial decisions being made at an inappropriate level in our organization, also could prevent us from maximizing our operating results and/or achieving our financial and other projections. The failure or disruption of our information technology systems or the failure of our information technology infrastructure to support our businesses could adversely affect our reputation, businesses, operating results and cash flows. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches), cyber attacks, vandalism, catastrophic events and human error. If our information systems are damaged, fail to work properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience reputational damage, loss of critical information, customer disruption and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform essential functions and implement new and innovative services. In addition, compliance with changes in U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including privacy and information security laws and standards, may cause us to incur significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. Our business success and operating results depend in part on effective information technology systems and on continuing to develop and implement improvements in technology. Pursuing multiple initiatives simultaneously could make this continued development and implementation significantly more challenging. Many aspects of our operations are dependent on our information systems and the information collected, processed, stored, and handled by these systems. We rely heavily on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, claims processing, customer loyalty and subscription programs, finance and other processes. Throughout our operations, we collect, process, maintain, retain, evaluate, utilize and distribute large amounts of confidential and sensitive data and information, including personally identifiable information and protected health information, that our customers, members and other constituents provide to purchase products or services, enroll in programs or services, register on our websites, interact with our personnel, or otherwise communicate with us. In addition, for these operations, we depend in part on the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. We have many different information and other technology systems supporting our businesses (including as a result of our acquisitions). Our businesses depend in large part on these systems to adequately price our products and services; accurately establish reserves, process claims and report operating results; and interact with providers, employer plan sponsors, customers, members, consumers and vendors in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion. In addition, recent trends toward greater consumer engagement in health care require new and enhanced technologies, including more sophisticated applications for mobile devices. Certain of our technology systems (including software) are older, legacy systems that are less flexible, less efficient and require a significant ongoing commitment of capital and human resources to maintain, protect and enhance them and to integrate them with our other systems. We must re-engineer and reduce the number of these systems to meet changing consumer and vendor preferences and needs, improve our productivity and reduce our operating expenses. We also need to develop or acquire new technology systems, contract with new vendors or modify certain of our existing systems to support the consumer-oriented and transformation products and services we are developing, operating and expanding and/or to meet current and developing industry and regulatory standards, including to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology and emerging cybersecurity risks and threats. If we fail to achieve these objectives, our ability to profitably grow our business and/or our operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, information technology and other technology and process improvement projects, including our transformation and enterprise modernization programs, frequently are long-term in nature and may take longer to complete and cost more than we 56 expect and may not deliver the benefits we project once they are complete. If we do not effectively and efficiently secure, manage, integrate and enhance our technology portfolio (including vendor sourced systems), we could, among other things, have problems determining health care and other benefit cost estimates and/or establishing appropriate pricing, meeting the needs of customers, consumers, providers, members and vendors, developing and expanding our consumer-oriented products and services or keeping pace with industry and regulatory standards, and our operating results may be adversely affected. We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and disrupt our business operations. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit cards, debit cards, gift cards, mobile payments and potentially other technologies in the future. Acceptance of these payment methods subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements may change in the future, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. For certain payment options, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase periodically thereby raising our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and various other forms of electronic payment. If these vendors are unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, our operations could be disrupted. The payment methods that we offer also expose us to potential fraud and theft by persons seeking to obtain unauthorized access to, or exploit any weaknesses in, the payment systems we use. If we fail to abide by applicable rules or requirements, or if data relating to our payment systems is compromised due to a breach or misuse, we may be responsible for any costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees. In addition, our reputation and ability to accept certain types of payments could each be harmed resulting in reduced sales and adverse effects on our operating results. Both our and our vendors’ operations are subject to a variety of business continuity hazards and risks, any of which could interrupt our operations or otherwise adversely affect our performance and operating results. We and our vendors are subject to business continuity hazards and other risks, including natural disasters, utility and other mechanical failures, acts of war or terrorism, acts of civil unrest, disruption of communications, data security and preservation, disruption of supply or distribution, safety regulation and labor difficulties. The occurrence of any of these or other events to us or our vendors might disrupt or shut down our operations or otherwise adversely affect our operations. We also may be subject to certain liability claims in the event of an injury or loss of life, or damage to property, resulting from such events. Although we have developed procedures for crisis management and disaster recovery and business continuity plans and maintain insurance policies that we believe are customary and adequate for our size and industry, our insurance policies include limits and exclusions and, as a result, our coverage may be insufficient to protect against all potential hazards and risks incident to our businesses. In addition, our crisis management and disaster recovery procedures and business continuity plans may not be effective. Should any such hazards or risks occur, or should our insurance coverage be inadequate or unavailable, our businesses, operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Financial Risks We would be adversely affected if we do not effectively deploy our capital . Downgrades or potential downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, could adversely affect our brand and reputation, businesses, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Our operations generate significant capital, and we have the ability to raise additional capital. The manner in which we deploy our capital, including investments in our businesses, our operations (such as information technology and other strategic and capital projects), dividends, acquisitions, share and/or debt repurchases, repayment of debt, reinsurance or other capital uses, impacts our financial strength, claims paying ability and credit ratings issued by nationally-recognized statistical rating organizations. Credit ratings issued by nationally-recognized statistical rating organizations are broadly distributed and generally used throughout our industries. Our ratings reflect each rating organization’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to our insureds. We believe our credit ratings and the financial strength and claims paying ability of our principal insurance and HMO subsidiaries are important factors in marketing our Health Care Benefits products to certain of our customers. Each of the ratings organizations reviews our ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. In connection with the completion of the Aetna Acquisition, each of Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and 57 Fitch downgraded certain of our debt, financial strength and/or other credit ratings. Downgrades in our ratings could adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Goodwill and other intangible assets could, in the future, become impaired. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had $110.7 billion and $112.9 billion, respectively, of goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill and indefinitely-lived intangible assets are subject to annual impairment reviews, or more frequent reviews if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. When evaluating goodwill for potential impairment, we compare the fair value of our reporting units to their respective carrying amounts. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of a discounted cash flow method and a market multiple method. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, a goodwill impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess to the extent of the goodwill balance. Estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, industry-wide changes, changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows or market capitalization. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material noncash charges to our operating results, which also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Adverse conditions in the U.S. and global capital markets can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investments in debt and equity securities, mortgage loans, alternative investments and other investments, and our operating results and/or our financial condition. The global capital markets, including credit markets, continue to experience volatility and uncertainty. As an insurer, we have a substantial investment portfolio that supports our policy liabilities and surplus and is comprised largely of debt securities of issuers located in the U.S. As a result, the income we earn from our investment portfolio is largely driven by the level of interest rates in the U.S., and to a lesser extent the international financial markets; and volatility, uncertainty and/or disruptions in the global capital markets, particularly the U.S. credit markets, and governments’ monetary policy, particularly U.S. monetary policy, can significantly and adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio, our operating results and/or our financial condition by: • significantly reducing the value and/or liquidity of the debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and creating realized capital losses that reduce our operating results and/or unrealized capital losses that reduce our shareholders’ equity; • keeping interest rates low on high-quality short-term or medium-term debt securities (such as we have experienced during recent years) and thereby materially reducing our net investment income and operating results as the proceeds from securities in our investment portfolio that mature or are otherwise disposed of continue to be reinvested in lower yielding securities; • reducing the fair values of our investments if interest rates rise; • causing non-performance of or defaults on their obligations to us by third parties, including customers, issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, mortgage borrowers and/or reinsurance and/or derivatives counterparties; • making it more difficult to value certain of our investment securities, for example if trading becomes less frequent, which could lead to significant period-to-period changes in our estimates of the fair values of those securities and cause period-to-period volatility in our net income and shareholders’ equity; • reducing our ability to issue short-term debt securities at attractive interest rates, thereby increasing our interest expense and decreasing our operating results; and • reducing our ability to issue other securities. Although we seek, within guidelines we deem appropriate, to match the duration of our assets and liabilities and to manage our credit and counterparty exposures, a failure adequately to do so could adversely affect our net income and our financial condition and, in extreme circumstances, our cash flows. We have incurred and assumed significant indebtedness which has increased our consolidated interest expense and could adversely affect our business flexibility and increase our borrowing costs. In order to complete the Aetna Acquisition, we incurred acquisition-related debt financing of approximately $45.0 billion and assumed Aetna’s existing indebtedness with a fair value of approximately $8.1 billion. Our substantial indebtedness and elevated debt-to-equity ratio have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing our interest expense compared to pre-Aetna Acquisition periods. In addition, the amount of 58 cash required to service our increased indebtedness levels and thus the demands on our cash resources are greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness prior to the Aetna Acquisition. We have suspended share repurchases until we reach our desired debt-to-equity ratio. The increased levels of indebtedness also could reduce funds available to engage in investments in product development, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. Risks Related to Our Relationships with Manufacturers, Providers, Suppliers and Vendors We face risks relating to the market availability, pricing, suppliers and safety profiles of prescription drugs and other products that we purchase and sell. Our Retail/LTC segment and our mail order and specialty pharmacy operations generate revenues in significant part by dispensing prescription drugs. Our PBM business generates revenues primarily by contracting with clients to provide prescription drugs and related health care services to plan members. As a result, we are dependent on our relationships with prescription drug manufacturers and suppliers. We acquire a substantial amount of our mail order and specialty pharmacies’ prescription drug supply from a limited number of suppliers. Certain of our agreements with such suppliers are short-term and cancelable by either party without cause. In addition, these agreements may allow the supplier to distribute through channels other than us. Certain of these agreements also allow pricing and other terms to be adjusted periodically for changing market conditions or required service levels. A termination or modification to any of these relationships could adversely affect our prescription drug supply and have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, many products distributed by our pharmacies are manufactured with ingredients that are susceptible to supply shortages. In some cases, we depend upon a single source of supply. Any such supply shortages or loss of any such single source of supply could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Much of the branded and generic drug product that we sell in our pharmacies, and much of the other merchandise we sell, is manufactured in whole or in substantial part outside of the United States. In most cases, the products or merchandise are imported by others and sold to us. As a result, significant changes in tax or trade policies, tariffs or trade relations between the United States and other countries, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could result in significant increases in our costs, restrict our access to suppliers, depress economic activity, and have a material adverse effect on our businesses, operating results and cash flows. In addition, other countries may change their business and trade policies and such changes, as well as any negative sentiments towards the United States in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade regulations, could adversely affect our businesses. Our suppliers are independent entities subject to their own operational and financial risks that are outside our control. If our current suppliers were to stop selling prescription drugs to us or delay delivery, including as a result of supply shortages, supplier production disruptions, supplier quality issues, closing or bankruptcies of our suppliers, or for other reasons, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other suppliers in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to contract with providers on competitive terms and develop and maintain attractive networks with high quality providers. We are seeking to enhance our health care provider networks by entering into joint ventures and other collaborative risk-sharing arrangements with providers. Providers’ willingness to enter these arrangements with us depends upon, among other things, our ability to provide them with up to date quality of care data to support these value-based contracts. These arrangements are designed to give providers incentives to engage in population health management and optimize delivery of health care to our members. These arrangements also may allow us to expand into new geographies, target new customer groups, increase membership and reduce medical costs and, if we provide technology or other services to the relevant health system or provider organization, may contribute to our revenue and earnings from alternative sources. If such arrangements do not result in the lower medical costs that we project or if we fail to attract providers to such arrangements, or are less successful at implementing such arrangements than our competitors, our medical costs may not be competitive and may be higher than we project, our attractiveness to customers may be reduced, we may lose or be unable to grow medical membership, and our ability to profitably grow our business and/or our operating results may be adversely affected. While we believe joint ventures, accountable care organizations (“ACOs”) and other non-traditional health care provider organizational structures present opportunities for us, the implementation of our joint ventures and other non-traditional structure strategies may not achieve the intended results, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Among other things, joint ventures require us to maintain collaborative relationships with our counterparties, continue to gain access to provider rates that make the joint ventures economically sustainable and devote significant management time to the 59 operation and management of the joint ventures. We may not be able to achieve these objectives in one or more of our joint ventures, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. If our service providers fail to meet their contractual obligations to us or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, we may be exposed to brand and reputational harm, litigation and/or regulatory action. This risk is particularly high in our Medicare, Medicaid, dual eligible and dual eligible special needs plan programs. We contract with various third parties to perform certain functions and services and provide us with certain information technology systems. Our arrangements with these third parties may expose us to public scrutiny, adversely affect our brand and reputation, expose us to litigation or regulatory action, and otherwise make our operations vulnerable if we fail to adequately oversee, monitor and regulate their performance or if they fail to meet their contractual obligations to us or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. For example, certain of our vendors have been responsible for releases of sensitive information of our members and employees, which has caused us to incur additional expenses and given rise to regulatory actions and litigation against us. These risks are particularly high in our Medicare, Medicaid, dual eligible and dual eligible special needs plan programs, where third parties perform medical management and other member related services for us. Any failure of our or these third parties’ prevention, detection or control systems related to regulatory compliance, compliance with our internal policies, data security and/or cybersecurity or any incident involving the theft, misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, members’, customers’ or other constituents’ sensitive information could require us to expend significant resources to remediate any damage, interrupt our operations and adversely affect our brand and reputation and also expose us to whistleblower, class action and other litigation, other proceedings, prohibitions on marketing or active or passive enrollment of members, corrective actions, fines, sanctions and/or penalties, any of which could adversely affect our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition. We may experience increased medical and other benefit costs, litigation risk and customer and member dissatisfaction when providers that do not have contracts with us render services to our Health Care Benefits members. Some providers that render services to our Health Care Benefits members do not have contracts with us. In those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding with these providers as to the amount of compensation that is due to them for services rendered to our members. In some states, the amount of compensation due to these nonparticipating providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us from our members, which may result in customer and member dissatisfaction. For example, in October 2018, an arbitrator awarded certain claimant hospitals approximately $150 million in a proceeding relating to Aetna’s out-of-network benefit payment and administration practices, and in March 2019 that award was reduced to approximately $86 million. Such disputes may cause us to pay higher medical or other benefit costs than we projected. Continuing consolidation and integration among providers and other suppliers may increase our medical and other covered benefits costs, make it difficult for us to compete in certain geographies and create new competitors. Hospitals and other providers and health systems continue to consolidate across the health care industry. While this consolidation could increase efficiency and has the potential to improve the delivery of health care services, it also reduces competition and the number of potential contracting parties in certain geographies. These health systems also are increasingly forming and considering forming health plans to directly offer health insurance in competition with us, a process that has been accelerated by the ACA. In addition, ACOs (including Commercial and Medicaid-only ACOs developed as a result of state Medicaid laws), practice management companies, consolidation among and by integrated health systems and other changes in the organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other providers adopt continues to change the way these providers interact with us and the competitive landscape in which we operate. These changes may increase our medical and other covered benefits costs, may affect the way we price our products and services and estimate our medical and other covered benefits costs and may require us to change our operations, including by withdrawing from certain geographies where we do not have a significant presence across our businesses or are unable to collaborate or contract with providers on acceptable terms. Each of these changes may adversely affect our businesses and operating results. 60

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 of this 10-K, “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A of this 10-K and the “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” in this 10-K. Overview of Business CVS Health Corporation (“CVS Health”), together with its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”), is a diversified health services company united around a common purpose of helping people on their path to better health. In an increasingly connected and digital world, we are meeting people wherever they are and changing health care to meet their needs. The Company has more than 9,900 retail locations, approximately 1,100 walk-in medical clinics, a leading pharmacy benefits manager with approximately 105 million plan members, a dedicated senior pharmacy care business serving more than one million patients per year and expanding specialty pharmacy services. We also serve an estimated 34 million people through traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including expanding Medicare Advantage offerings and a leading standalone Medicare Part D prescription drug plan (“PDP”). The Company believes its innovative health care model increases access to quality care, delivers better health outcomes and lowers overall health care costs. On November 28, 2018 (the “Aetna Acquisition Date”), the Company acquired Aetna Inc. (“Aetna”). As a result of the acquisition of Aetna (the “Aetna Acquisition”), the Company added the Health Care Benefits segment. Certain aspects of Aetna’s operations, including products for which the Company no longer solicits or accepts new customers, such as large case pensions and long-term care insurance products, are included in the Company’s Corporate/Other segment. The consolidated financial statements reflect Aetna’s results subsequent to the Aetna Acquisition Date. The Company has four reportable segments: Pharmacy Services, Retail/LTC, Health Care Benefits and Corporate/Other, which are described below. Overview of the Pharmacy Services Segment The Pharmacy Services segment provides a full range of pharmacy benefit management (“PBM”) solutions, including plan design offerings and administration, formulary management, retail pharmacy network management services, mail order pharmacy, specialty pharmacy and infusion services, clinical services, disease management services and medical spend management. The Pharmacy Services segment’s clients are primarily employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, health plans, PDPs, Medicaid managed care plans, plans offered on public health insurance exchanges and private health insurance exchanges and other sponsors of health benefit plans throughout the United States. The Pharmacy Services segment operates retail specialty pharmacy stores, specialty mail order pharmacies, mail order dispensing pharmacies, compounding pharmacies and branches for infusion and enteral nutrition services. Overview of the Retail/LTC Segment The Retail/LTC segment sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of health and wellness products and general merchandise, provides health care services through its MinuteClinic ® walk-in medical clinics, provides medical diagnostic testing, administers vaccinations for illnesses such as influenza, COVID-19 and shingles and conducts long-term care pharmacy (“LTC”) operations, which distribute prescription drugs and provide related pharmacy consulting and other ancillary services to long-term care facilities and other care settings. As of December 31, 2020, the Retail/LTC segment operated more than 9,900 retail locations, approximately 1,100 MinuteClinic locations as well as online retail pharmacy websites, LTC pharmacies and on-site pharmacies. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company dispensed approximately 27.1% of the total retail pharmacy prescriptions in the United States. Overview of the Health Care Benefits Segment The Health Care Benefits segment is one of the nation’s leading diversified health care benefits providers. The Health Care Benefits segment has the information and resources to help members, in consultation with their health care professionals, make more informed decisions about their health care. The Health Care Benefits segment offers a broad range of traditional, voluntary and consumer-directed health insurance products and related services, including medical, pharmacy, dental and behavioral health plans, medical management capabilities, Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement plans, PDPs, Medicaid health care management services and health information technology products and services. The Health Care Benefits 66 segment also provided workers’ compensation administrative services through its Coventry Health Care Workers’ Compensation business (“Workers’ Compensation business”) prior to the sale of this business on July 31, 2020. The Health Care Benefits segment’s customers include employer groups, individuals, college students, part-time and hourly workers, health plans, health care providers (“providers”), governmental units, government-sponsored plans, labor groups and expatriates. The Company refers to insurance products (where it assumes all or a majority of the risk for medical and dental care costs) as “Insured” and administrative services contract products (where the plan sponsor assumes all or a majority of the risk for medical and dental care costs) as “ASC.” For periods prior to the Aetna Acquisition Date, the Health Care Benefits segment was comprised only of the Company’s SilverScript ® PDP business. Overview of the Corporate/Other Segment The Company presents the remainder of its financial results in the Corporate/Other segment, which primarily consists of: • Management and administrative expenses to support the Company’s overall operations, which include certain aspects of executive management and the corporate relations, legal, compliance, human resources, information technology and finance departments, expenses associated with the Company’s investments in its transformation and enterprise modernization programs and acquisition-related transaction and integration costs; and • Products for which the Company no longer solicits or accepts new customers such as large case pensions and long-term care insurance products. 67 COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted the economies of the U.S. and other countries around the world. Beginning in March 2020, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic began to emerge in the U.S. The Company executed preparedness plans to maintain continuity of its operations, including transitioning many office-based colleagues to a remote work environment and installing protective equipment in our retail pharmacies. The Company also provided enhanced benefits to its colleagues, including bonuses to frontline colleagues, dependent care financial assistance, paid sick leave for part-time colleagues and paid time off to colleagues who test positive or are quarantined due to exposure to COVID-19. Our strong local presence and scale in communities across the country enabled us to play an indispensable role in the national response to COVID-19, as well as provide seamless support for our customers wherever they needed us: in our CVS locations, in their homes, and virtually. The COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on the Company’s operating results for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily in the Company’s Health Care Benefits and Retail/LTC segments. Health Care Benefits Segment Beginning in mid-March, the health system experienced a significant reduction in utilization of medical services (“utilization”) that is discretionary and the cancellation of elective medical procedures. Utilization remained below historical levels through April, began to recover in May and June and reached more normal levels in the third and fourth quarters, with select geographies impacted by COVID-19 waves. In response to COVID-19, the Company expanded benefit coverage to its members. These expanded benefits included cost-sharing waivers for COVID-19 related treatments, as well as assistance to members through premium credits, telehealth cost-sharing waivers and other investments. COVID-19 also resulted in a shift in the Company’s medical membership during the year. The Company experienced declines in Commercial membership due to reductions in workforce at our existing customers, substantially offset by increases in Medicaid membership primarily as a result of the suspension of eligibility redeterminations and increased unemployment. Retail/LTC Segment During March 2020, the Company experienced increased prescription volume due to the greater use of 90-day prescriptions and early refills of maintenance medications, as well as increased front store volume as consumers prepared for the COVID-19 pandemic. Beginning in the second quarter and continuing throughout the remainder of the year, the Company experienced reduced customer traffic in its retail pharmacies and MinuteClinic locations due to shelter-in-place orders as well as reduced new therapy prescriptions and decreased long-term care prescription volume as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the Company incurred incremental operating expenses associated with the Company’s COVID-19 pandemic response efforts and waived fees associated with prescription home delivery and associated front store products. During 2020, the Company also played a key role in supporting the local communities in which it operates. The Company offered COVID-19 diagnostic testing at more than 4,000 CVS Pharmacy locations as of December 31, 2020. In addition, the Company launched critical diagnostic testing for the vulnerable senior population in long-term care facilities in partnership with three states. The Company was also selected to administer COVID-19 vaccines in both long-term care facilities and its retail pharmacies. The Company began administering COVID-19 vaccinations in long-term care facilities and in certain of its retail pharmacies during December 2020 and February 2021, respectively, and expects to play a significant role in COVID-19 vaccine administration in the future. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. We believe COVID-19’s impact on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition primarily will be driven by the geographies impacted and the severity and duration of the pandemic; the pandemic’s impact on the U.S. and global economies and consumer behavior and health care utilization patterns; and the timing, scope and impact of stimulus legislation as well as other federal, state and local governmental responses to the pandemic. Those primary drivers are beyond our knowledge and control. As a result, the impact COVID-19 will have on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition is uncertain, but the impact could be adverse and material. 68 Results of Operations The following information summarizes the Company’s results of operations for 2020 compared to 2019. For discussion of the Company’s results of operations for 2019 compared to 2018, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on February 18, 2020. Summary of Consolidated Financial Results Commentary - 2020 compared to 2019 Revenues • Total revenues increased $11.9 billion or 4.6% in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase in total revenues was primarily driven by growth in the Health Care Benefits and Retail/LTC segments. • Please see “Segment Analysis” later in this MD&A for additional information about the revenues of the Company’s segments. Operating expenses • Operating expenses increased $1.6 billion or 4.8% in 2020 compared to 2019. Operating expenses as a percentage of total revenues remained consistent at 13.1% in both 2020 and 2019. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to the reinstatement of the non-deductible health insurer fee (“HIF”) which was $1.0 billion for 2020, incremental operating expenses associated with the Company’s COVID-19 pandemic response efforts and increased operating expenses associated with growth in the business. The increase in operating expenses was partially offset by (i) a $269 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Workers’ Compensation business, which occurred on July 31, 2020, (ii) the absence of $231 million of store rationalization charges and a $205 million pre-tax loss on the sale of the Company’s Brazilian subsidiary, Drogaria 69 Onofre Ltda. (“Onofre”), both recorded in the year ended December 31, 2019, and (iii) the favorable impact of enterprise-wide cost savings initiatives in 2020. • Please see “Segment Analysis” later in this MD&A for additional information about the operating expenses of the Company’s segments. Operating income • Operating income increased $1.9 billion or 16.1% in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase in operating income was primarily due to: • Increased operating income in the Health Care Benefits segment, primarily as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, pre-tax income of $307 million associated with the receipt of amounts owed to the Company under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “ACA”) risk corridor program that was previously fully reserved for as payment was uncertain, and the $269 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Workers’ Compensation business; • Increased operating income in the Pharmacy Services segment, primarily related to improved purchasing economics; and • The favorable impact of enterprise-wide cost savings initiatives in 2020, partially offset by: • Decreased operating income in the Retail/LTC segment, primarily as a result of continued reimbursement pressure and the net adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the absence of $231 million of store rationalization charges and the $205 million pre-tax loss on the sale of Onofre, both recorded in 2019. • Please see “Segment Analysis” later in this MD&A for additional information about the operating income of the Company’s segments. Interest expense • Interest expense decreased $128 million in 2020 compared to 2019, primarily due to lower average debt in 2020. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” later in this report for additional information. Loss on early extinguishment of debt • During 2020, the loss on early extinguishment of debt relates to the Company’s repayment of $6.0 billion of its outstanding senior notes pursuant to its tender offers for such senior notes in August 2020, which resulted in a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $766 million, and the repayment of $4.5 billion of its outstanding senior notes pursuant to its tender offers for such senior notes in December 2020, which resulted in a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $674 million. During 2019, the loss on early extinguishment of debt relates to the Company’s repayment of $4.0 billion of its outstanding senior notes pursuant to its tender offers for such senior notes in August 2019, which resulted in a loss on early extinguishment of debt of $79 million. See Note 8 ‘‘Borrowings and Credit Agreements’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information. Other income • Other income increased $82 million in 2020 compared to 2019. Other income represents pension plan asset returns in excess of interest cost on pension plan obligations. The increase in other income in 2020 was primarily due to lower discount rates in 2020 compared to 2019 when determining the interest cost on the Company’s pension plan obligations as well as strong plan asset returns. Income tax provision • The Company’s effective income tax rate remained consistent at 26.3% in both 2020 and 2019, with the impact of the non-deductible HIF offset by the favorable resolution of certain tax matters in the year ended December 31, 2020. Loss from discontinued operations • In connection with certain business dispositions completed between 1995 and 1997, the Company retained guarantees on store lease obligations for a number of former subsidiaries, including Linens ‘n Things and Bob’s Stores, each of which subsequently filed for bankruptcy. The Company’s loss from discontinued operations in 2020 primarily includes lease-related costs required to satisfy these lease guarantees. • See “Discontinued Operations” in Note 1 ‘‘Significant Accounting Policies’’ and “Lease Guarantees” in Note 16 ‘‘Commitments and Contingencies’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information about the Company’s discontinued operations and the Company’s lease guarantees, respectively. 70 Outlook for 2021 With respect to 2021, the Company believes you should consider the following important information: • The Pharmacy Services segment is expected to benefit from continued growth in specialty pharmacy and our ability to drive further improvements in purchasing economics, partially offset by continued price compression. • The Retail/LTC segment is expected to benefit from increased prescription volume, diagnostic testing and improved generic drug purchasing, partially offset by continued reimbursement pressure and operating expenses associated with the Company’s COVID-19 pandemic response efforts. The projected adjusted prescription growth is expected to be driven by the continued successful execution of our patient care programs, the anticipated return of provider visits as we move through the year and vaccination administration. While lower front store traffic has persisted into the first quarter of 2021, we expect front store traffic to increase as we move through the year. • The Health Care Benefits segment is expected to benefit from Medicare membership growth, partially offset by membership declines in our Medicaid products, the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the removal of the HIF. The projected MBR is expected to increase compared to 2020, reflecting the return to more normal levels of utilization, the removal of the HIF, lower Medicare risk adjustment revenue and the continued shift in business mix. The COVID-19 pandemic is expected to adversely impact earnings in 2021 due to the regulatory changes included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021; testing, treatment and vaccination costs; and lower Medicare risk adjustment revenue. • The Company is expected to benefit from the continuation of its enterprise-wide cost savings initiatives that are expected to ramp as we move through the year. Key drivers include: ◦ The ongoing digitalization of our business along with technology improvements in our operations, ◦ Office real estate reductions associated with workforce management changes and ◦ Productivity/operational efficiency initiatives within each of the Company’s segments. • Based upon current tax legislation, the Company expects its effective income tax rate to decrease primarily due to the removal of the HIF in 2021. • The Company expects changes to its business environment to continue as elected and other government officials at the national and state levels continue to propose and enact significant modifications to public policy and existing laws and regulations that govern or impact the Company’s businesses. The Company’s current expectations described above are forward-looking statements. Please see “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A of this 10-K and the “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” in this 10-K for information regarding important factors that may cause the Company’s actual results to differ from those currently projected and/or otherwise materially affect the Company. 71 Segment Analysis The following discussion of segment operating results is presented based on the Company’s reportable segments in accordance with the accounting guidance for segment reporting and is consistent with the segment disclosure in Note 17 ‘‘Segment Reporting’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K. The Company has three operating segments, Pharmacy Services, Retail/LTC and Health Care Benefits, as well as a Corporate/Other segment. The Company’s segments maintain separate financial information, and the Company’s chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) evaluates the segments’ operating results on a regular basis in deciding how to allocate resources among the segments and in assessing segment performance. The CODM evaluates the performance of the Company’s segments based on adjusted operating income, which is defined as operating income (GAAP measure) excluding the impact of amortization of intangible assets and other items, if any, that neither relate to the ordinary course of the Company’s business nor reflect the Company’s underlying business performance. See the reconciliations of operating income (GAAP measure) to adjusted operating income below for further context regarding the items excluded from operating income in determining adjusted operating income. The Company uses adjusted operating income as its principal measure of segment performance as it enhances the Company’s ability to compare past financial performance with current performance and analyze underlying business performance and trends. Non-GAAP financial measures the Company discloses, such as consolidated adjusted operating income, should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures determined or calculated in accordance with GAAP. The following is a reconciliation of financial measures of the Company’s segments to the consolidated totals: _____________________________________________ (1) Total revenues of the Pharmacy Services segment include approximately $10.9 billion, $11.5 billion and $11.4 billion of retail co-payments for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. See Note 1 ‘‘Significant Accounting Policies’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information about retail co-payments. (2) Intersegment eliminations relate to intersegment revenue generating activities that occur between the Pharmacy Services segment, the Retail/LTC segment and/or the Health Care Benefits segment. 72 The following are reconciliations of operating income to adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018: _____________________________________________ (1) The Company’s acquisition activities have resulted in the recognition of intangible assets as required under the acquisition method of accounting which consist primarily of trademarks, customer contracts/relationships, covenants not to compete, technology, provider networks and value of business acquired. Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are tested for impairment when events indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The amortization of intangible assets is reflected in the Company’s statements of operations in operating expenses within each segment. Although intangible assets contribute to the Company’s revenue generation, the amortization of intangible assets does not directly relate to the underwriting of the Company’s insurance products, the services performed for the Company’s customers or the sale of the Company’s products or services. Additionally, intangible asset amortization expense typically fluctuates based on the size and timing of the Company’s acquisition activity. Accordingly, the Company believes excluding the amortization of intangible assets enhances the Company’s and investors’ ability to compare the Company’s past financial performance with its current performance and to analyze underlying business performance and trends. Intangible asset amortization excluded from the related non-GAAP financial measure represents the entire amount recorded within the Company’s GAAP financial statements, and the revenue generated by the associated intangible assets has not been excluded from the related non-GAAP financial measure. Intangible asset amortization is excluded from the related non-GAAP financial measure because the amortization, unlike the related revenue, is not affected by operations of any particular period unless an intangible asset becomes impaired or the estimated useful life of an intangible asset is revised. 73 (2) In 2020, 2019 and 2018, acquisition-related transaction and integration costs relate to the Aetna Acquisition. In 2018, acquisition-related integration costs also relate to the acquisition of Omnicare, Inc. (“Omnicare”). The acquisition-related transaction and integration costs are reflected in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations in operating expenses within the Corporate/Other segment and the Retail/LTC segment. (3) In 2020, the gain on divestiture of subsidiary represents the pre-tax gain on the sale of the Workers’ Compensation business, which the Company sold on July 31, 2020 for approximately $850 million. The gain on divestiture is reflected as a reduction in operating expenses in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations within the Health Care Benefits segment. In 2019, the loss on divestiture of subsidiary represents the pre-tax loss on the sale of Onofre, which occurred on July 1, 2019. The loss on divestiture primarily relates to the elimination of the cumulative translation adjustment from accumulated other comprehensive income. In 2018, the loss on divestiture of subsidiary represents the pre-tax loss on the sale of the Company’s RxCrossroads subsidiary for $725 million on January 2, 2018. The losses on divestiture in 2019 and 2018 are reflected in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations in operating expenses within the Retail/LTC segment. (4) In 2020, the Company received $313 million owed to it under the ACA’s risk corridor program that was previously fully reserved for as payment was uncertain. After considering offsetting items such as the ACA’s minimum medical loss ratio (“MLR”) rebate requirements and premium taxes, the Company recognized pre-tax income of $307 million in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations within the Health Care Benefits segment. (5) In 2019, the store rationalization charges relate to the planned closure of 46 underperforming retail pharmacy stores in the second quarter of 2019 and the planned closure of 22 underperforming retail pharmacy stores in the first quarter of 2020. The store rationalization charges primarily relate to operating lease right-of-use asset impairment charges and are reflected in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations in operating expenses within the Retail/LTC segment. (6) In 2018, the goodwill impairments relate to the LTC reporting unit within the Retail/LTC segment. (7) In 2018, impairment of long-lived assets primarily relates to the impairment of property and equipment within the Retail/LTC segment and is reflected in operating expenses in the Company’s consolidated statement of operations. (8) In 2018, the Company recorded interest income of $536 million on the proceeds of the $40 billion of unsecured senior notes it issued in March 2018 to partially fund the Aetna Acquisition. All amounts are for the periods prior to the close of the Aetna Acquisition, which occurred on November 28, 2018, and were recorded within the Corporate/Other segment. 74 Pharmacy Services Segment The following table summarizes the Pharmacy Services segment’s performance for the respective periods: _____________________________________________ (1) See “Segment Analysis” above in this MD&A for a reconciliation of operating income (GAAP measure) to adjusted operating income for the Pharmacy Services segment. (2) Pharmacy network is defined as claims filled at retail and specialty retail pharmacies, including the Company’s retail pharmacies and LTC pharmacies, but excluding Maintenance Choice ® activity, which is included within the mail choice category. Maintenance Choice permits eligible client plan members to fill their maintenance prescriptions through mail order delivery or at a CVS pharmacy retail store for the same price as mail order. (3) Mail choice is defined as claims filled at a Pharmacy Services mail order facility, which includes specialty mail claims inclusive of Specialty Connect ® claims picked up at a retail pharmacy, as well as prescriptions filled at the Company’s retail pharmacies under the Maintenance Choice program. (4) Includes an adjustment to convert 90-day prescriptions to the equivalent of three 30-day prescriptions. This adjustment reflects the fact that these prescriptions include approximately three times the amount of product days supplied compared to a normal prescription. Commentary - 2020 compared to 2019 Revenues • Total revenues increased $447 million, or 0.3%, to $141.9 billion in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase was primarily driven by growth in specialty pharmacy and brand inflation, partially offset by continued price compression and changes in net new business mix. 75 Operating expenses • Operating expenses in the Pharmacy Services segment include selling, general and administrative expenses; depreciation and amortization expense; and expenses related to specialty retail pharmacies, which include store and administrative payroll, employee benefits and occupancy costs. • Operating expenses decreased $72 million, or 4.8%, in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily driven by lower amortization expense in 2020, partially offset by incremental operating expenses associated with growth in the business, including investments in the Company’s growth initiatives. • Operating expenses as a percentage of total revenues remained relatively consistent at 1.0% and 1.1% in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Operating income and adjusted operating income • Operating income increased $719 million, or 15.2%, and adjusted operating income increased $559 million, or 10.9%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase in both operating income and adjusted operating income was primarily driven by improved purchasing economics and growth in specialty pharmacy, partially offset by continued price compression. The increase in operating income also was driven by lower amortization expense in 2020. • As you review the Pharmacy Services segment’s performance in this area, you should consider the following important information about the business: • The Company’s efforts to (i) retain existing clients, (ii) obtain new business and (iii) maintain or improve the rebates and/or discounts the Company receives from manufacturers, wholesalers and retail pharmacies continue to have an impact on operating income and adjusted operating income. In particular, competitive pressures in the PBM industry have caused the Company and other PBMs to continue to share with clients a larger portion of rebates and/or discounts received from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, marketplace dynamics and regulatory changes have limited the Company’s ability to offer plan sponsors pricing that includes retail network “differential” or “spread,” and the Company expects these trends to continue. The “differential” or “spread” is any difference between the drug price charged to plan sponsors, including Medicare Part D plan sponsors, by a PBM and the price paid for the drug by the PBM to the dispensing provider. Pharmacy claims processed • Total pharmacy claims processed represents the number of prescription claims processed through our pharmacy benefits manager and dispensed by either our retail network pharmacies or our own mail and specialty pharmacies. Management uses this metric to understand variances between actual claims processed and expected amounts as well as trends in period-over-period results. This metric provides management and investors with information useful in understanding the impact of pharmacy claim volume on segment total revenues and operating results. • The Company’s pharmacy network claims processed on a 30-day equivalent basis increased 5.1% to 1.8 billion claims in 2020 compared to 1.7 billion claims in 2019. The increase in pharmacy network claims processed was primarily driven by net new business. • The Company’s mail choice claims processed on a 30-day equivalent basis increased 4.1% to 322.8 million claims in 2020 compared to 310.2 million claims in 2019. The increase in mail choice claims was primarily driven by net new business and the continued adoption of Maintenance Choice offerings. Generic dispensing rate • Generic dispensing rate is calculated by dividing the Pharmacy Services segment’s generic drug prescriptions processed or filled by its total prescriptions processed or filled. Management uses this metric to evaluate the effectiveness of the business at encouraging the use of generic drugs when they are available and clinically appropriate, which aids in decreasing costs for client members and retail customers. This metric provides management and investors with information useful in understanding trends in segment total revenues and operating results. • The Pharmacy Services segment’s total generic dispensing rate remained consistent at 88.2% in both 2020 and 2019. 76 Retail/LTC Segment The following table summarizes the Retail/LTC segment’s performance for the respective periods: _____________________________________________ (1) See “Segment Analysis” above in this MD&A for a reconciliation of operating income (GAAP measure) to adjusted operating income for the Retail/LTC segment. (2) Includes an adjustment to convert 90‑day prescriptions to the equivalent of three 30‑day prescriptions. This adjustment reflects the fact that these prescriptions include approximately three times the amount of product days supplied compared to a normal prescription. (3) Same store sales and prescription volume represent the change in revenues and prescriptions filled in the Company’s retail pharmacy stores that have been operating for greater than one year, expressed as a percentage that indicates the increase or decrease relative to the comparable prior period. Same store metrics exclude revenues from MinuteClinic, revenues and prescriptions from LTC operations and, in 2019 and 2018, revenues and prescriptions from stores in Brazil. Management uses these metrics to evaluate the performance of existing stores on a comparable basis and to inform future decisions regarding existing stores and new locations. Same-store metrics provide management and investors with information useful in understanding the portion of current revenues and prescriptions resulting from organic growth in existing locations versus the portion resulting from opening new stores. Commentary - 2020 compared to 2019 Revenues • Total revenues increased $4.6 billion, or 5.3%, to $91.2 billion in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase was primarily driven by increased prescription volume, COVID-19 diagnostic testing and brand inflation, partially offset by continued reimbursement pressure and the impact of recent generic introductions. • Pharmacy same store sales increased 7.0% in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase was driven by the 4.7% increase in pharmacy same store prescription volume on a 30-day equivalent basis, pharmacy drug mix and brand inflation. These increases were partially offset by continued reimbursement pressure and the impact of recent generic introductions. 77 • Front store same store sales increased 0.9% in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase was primarily due to increases in consumer health and general merchandise sales. • Other revenues increased 83.7% in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase was primarily due to increased diagnostic testing in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. Operating expenses • Operating expenses in the Retail/LTC segment include store payroll, store employee benefits, store occupancy costs, selling expenses, advertising expenses, depreciation and amortization expense and certain administrative expenses. • Operating expenses increased $147 million, or 0.8%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase was primarily due to incremental operating expenses associated with the Company’s COVID-19 pandemic response efforts, the increased volume described above and investments in the business in 2020. The increase was partially offset by the absence of $231 million of store rationalization charges in connection with the planned closure of underperforming retail pharmacy stores and the $205 million pre-tax loss on the sale of Onofre, both recorded in 2019, as well as the impact of cost savings initiatives in 2020. • Operating expenses as a percentage of total revenues decreased to 20.0% in 2020 compared to 20.9% in 2019. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of total revenues was primarily driven by the increases in total revenues described above. Operating income and adjusted operating income • Operating income decreased $153 million, or 2.6%, and adjusted operating income decreased $559 million, or 8.3%, in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease in both operating income and adjusted operating income was primarily due to continued reimbursement pressure and the net impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the increased pharmacy volume described above and improved generic drug purchasing. The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in reduced operating income and adjusted operating income in 2020 as a result of decreased customer traffic in the segment’s retail pharmacies and MinuteClinic locations and incremental operating expenses associated with the Company’s COVID-19 pandemic response efforts, partially offset by COVID-19 diagnostic testing. The decrease in operating income also was partially offset by the absence of the $231 million of store rationalization charges and the $205 million pre-tax loss on the sale of Onofre, both recorded in 2019. • As you review the Retail/LTC segment’s performance in this area, you should consider the following important information about the business: • The segment’s pharmacy operating income and adjusted operating income have been adversely affected by the efforts of managed care organizations, PBMs and governmental and other third-party payors to reduce their prescription drug costs, including the use of restrictive networks, as well as changes in the mix of business within the pharmacy portion of the Retail/LTC segment. If the reimbursement pressure accelerates, the segment may not be able to grow revenues, and its operating income and adjusted operating income could be adversely affected. • The increased use of generic drugs has positively impacted the segment’s operating income and adjusted operating income but has resulted in third-party payors augmenting their efforts to reduce reimbursement payments to retail pharmacies for prescriptions. This trend, which the Company expects to continue, reduces the benefit the segment realizes from brand-to-generic drug conversions. Prescriptions filled • Prescriptions filled represents the number of prescriptions dispensed through the Retail/LTC segment’s pharmacies. Management uses this metric to understand variances between actual prescriptions dispensed and expected amounts as well as trends in period-over-period results. This metric provides management and investors with information useful in understanding the impact of prescription volume on segment total revenues and operating results. • Prescriptions filled increased 3.4% on a 30-day equivalent basis in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily driven by the continued adoption of patient care programs, partially offset by reduced new therapy prescriptions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and decreased long-term care prescription volume. Generic dispensing rate • Generic dispensing rate is calculated by dividing the Retail/LTC segment’s generic drug prescriptions filled by its total prescriptions filled. Management uses this metric to evaluate the effectiveness of the business at encouraging the use of generic drugs when they are available and clinically appropriate, which aids in decreasing costs for client members and retail customers. This metric provides management and investors with information useful in understanding trends in segment total revenues and operating results. • The Retail/LTC segment’s generic dispensing rate remained consistent at 88.3% in both 2020 and 2019. 78 Health Care Benefits Segment For periods prior to November 28, 2018 (the Aetna Acquisition Date), the Health Care Benefits segment was comprised only of the Company’s SilverScript PDP business. The following table summarizes the Health Care Benefits segment’s performance for the respective periods: _____________________________________________ (1) For periods prior to the Aetna Acquisition Date, the Health Care Benefits segment was comprised only of the Company’s SilverScript PDP business. Accordingly, the MBR for the year ended December 31, 2018 is not meaningful (“NM”) and is not directly comparable to the MBRs for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. (2) See “Segment Analysis” above in this MD&A for a reconciliation of operating income (GAAP measure) to adjusted operating income for the Health Care Benefits segment. Commentary - 2020 compared to 2019 Revenues • Total revenues increased $5.9 billion, or 8.4%, to $75.5 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily driven by membership growth in the Health Care Benefits segment’s Government products, the favorable impact of the reinstatement of the HIF for 2020 and the receipt of $313 million owed to the Company under the ACA’s risk corridor program. These increases were partially offset by the divestitures of Aetna’s standalone PDPs (which the Company retained the financial results of through 2019) and Workers’ Compensation business, membership declines in the segment’s Commercial products and COVID-19 related investments benefiting customers in 2020. Medical Benefit Ratio (“MBR”) • Medical benefit ratio is calculated as benefit costs divided by premium revenues and represents the percentage of premium revenues spent on medical benefits for the Company’s Insured members. Management uses MBR to assess the underlying business performance and underwriting of its insurance products, understand variances between actual results and expected results and identify trends in period-over-period results. MBR provides management and investors with information useful in assessing the operating results of the Company’s Insured Health Care Benefits products. • The Health Care Benefits segment’s MBR decreased 330 basis points from 84.2% to 80.9% in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily due to (i) the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in reduced benefit costs due 79 to the deferral of elective procedures and other discretionary utilization, partially offset by COVID-19 related investments, testing and treatment costs, (ii) the reinstatement of the HIF for 2020 and (iii) the receipt of amounts owed to the Company under the ACA’s risk corridor program in 2020. Operating expenses • Operating expenses in the Health Care Benefits segment include selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization expenses. • Operating expenses increased $1.3 billion in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase in operating expenses was primarily due to the reinstatement of the HIF which was $1.0 billion for 2020 and incremental operating expenses to support the increased membership described above, including operating expenses to support additional Medicaid members onboarded during the first quarter of 2020. The increase was partially offset by the divestitures of Aetna’s standalone PDPs and Workers’ Compensation business, the $269 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Workers’ Compensation business and the impact of cost savings initiatives in 2020. Operating income and adjusted operating income • Operating income and adjusted operating income increased $1.5 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase in both operating income and adjusted operating income was primarily driven by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by the divestitures of Aetna’s standalone PDPs and Workers’ Compensation business. The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in reduced benefit costs due to the deferral of elective procedures and other discretionary utilization, partially offset by COVID-19 related investments, testing and treatment costs. Operating income also includes pre-tax income of $307 million associated with the receipt of amounts owed to the Company under the ACA’s risk corridor program and the $269 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Workers’ Compensation business in 2020. The following table summarizes the Health Care Benefits segment’s medical membership as of December 31, 2020 and 2019: _____________________________________________ (1) Represents the Company’s SilverScript PDP membership only. Excludes 2.5 million members as of December 31, 2019 related to Aetna’s standalone PDPs that were sold effective December 31, 2018. The Company retained the financial results of the divested plans through 2019 through a reinsurance agreement. Subsequent to 2019, the Company no longer retains the financial results of the divested plans. Medical Membership • Medical membership represents the number of members covered by the Company’s Insured and ASC medical products and related services at a specified point in time. Management uses this metric to understand variances between actual medical membership and expected amounts as well as trends in period-over-period results. This metric provides management and investors with information useful in understanding the impact of medical membership on segment total revenues and operating results. • Medical membership as of December 31, 2020 of 23.4 million increased 504 thousand compared with December 31, 2019, primarily reflecting increases in Medicaid and Medicare products, partially offset by declines in Commercial products. Medicare Update On April 6, 2020, the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) issued its final notice detailing final 2021 Medicare Advantage benchmark payment rates (the “Final Notice”). Overall the Company projects the benchmark rates in the Final Notice will increase funding for its Medicare Advantage business, excluding the impact of the HIF in 2020, by approximately 1.8% in 2021 compared to 2020. 80 On January 15, 2021, CMS issued its Final Notice detailing final 2022 Medicare Advantage benchmark payment rates. Final 2022 Medicare Advantage rates resulted in an increase in industry benchmark rates of approximately 4.1%. The ACA ties a portion of each Medicare Advantage plan’s reimbursement to the plan’s “star ratings.” Plans must have a star rating of four or higher (out of five) to qualify for bonus payments. CMS released the Company’s 2021 star ratings in October 2020. The Company’s 2021 star ratings will be used to determine which of the Company’s Medicare Advantage plans have ratings of four stars or higher and qualify for bonus payments in 2022. Based on the Company’s membership at December 31, 2020, 83% of the Company’s Medicare Advantage members were in plans with 2021 star ratings of at least four stars, consistent with 83% of the Company’s Medicare Advantage members being in plans with 2020 star ratings of at least four stars based on the Company’s membership at December 31, 2019. Corporate/Other Segment The following table summarizes the Corporate/Other segment’s performance for the respective periods: _____________________________________________ (1) See “Segment Analysis” above in this MD&A for a reconciliation of operating loss (GAAP measure) to adjusted operating loss for the Corporate/Other segment. Commentary - 2020 compared to 2019 Revenues • Revenues primarily relate to products for which the Company no longer solicits or accepts new customers, such as large case pensions and long-term care insurance products, that were acquired in the Aetna Acquisition. In 2018, revenues relate primarily to interest income on the proceeds from the financing of the Aetna Acquisition. • Total revenues decreased $86 million in 2020 compared to 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower net investment income including an $80 million decrease in net realized capital gains in 2020 compared to 2019. Operating expenses • Operating expenses within the Corporate/Other segment consist of management and administrative expenses to support the Company’s overall operations, which include certain aspects of executive management and the corporate relations, legal, compliance, human resources, information technology and finance departments, expenses associated with the Company’s investments in its transformation and enterprise modernization programs and acquisition-related transaction and integration costs. Subsequent to the Aetna Acquisition Date, segment operating expenses also include operating costs to support the Company’s large case pensions and long-term care insurance products. • Operating expenses increased $136 million in 2020 compared to 2019. The increase was primarily driven by incremental operating expenses associated with the Company’s investments in transformation and its COVID-19 pandemic response efforts, as well as increased charitable contributions in 2020. The increase was partially offset by a $148 million decrease in acquisition-related integration costs compared to the prior year. 81 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows The Company maintains a level of liquidity sufficient to allow it to meet its cash needs in the short-term. Over the long term, the Company manages its cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain its financial condition and maintain flexibility for future strategic initiatives. The Company continuously assesses its regulatory capital requirements, working capital needs, debt and leverage levels, debt maturity schedule, capital expenditure requirements, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and future investments or acquisitions. The Company believes its operating cash flows, commercial paper program, credit facilities, sale-leaseback program, as well as any potential future borrowings, will be sufficient to fund these future payments and long-term initiatives. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had approximately $7.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents, approximately $2.2 billion of which was held by the parent company or nonrestricted subsidiaries. The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted global economic activity and during the first half of the year caused significant volatility and negative pressure in the capital markets. As a result of the uncertainty generated by COVID-19, on March 31, 2020, the Company issued $4.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes to enhance its liquidity and strengthen its capital. As markets stabilized, in August 2020, the Company purchased $6.0 billion of its outstanding senior notes through cash tender offers, while issuing $4.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. In December 2020, the Company purchased $4.5 billion of its outstanding senior notes through cash tender offers, while issuing $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior notes. The Company will continue to monitor the severity and duration of the pandemic and its impact on the U.S. and global economies, consumer behavior and health care utilization patterns and our businesses, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The net change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was as follows: Commentary - 2020 compared to 2019 • Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $3.0 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher operating income in the Health Care Benefits segment and the deferral of approximately $670 million of certain payroll tax payments to future years, as permitted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. • Net cash used in investing activities increased by $2.2 billion in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to increased net purchases of investments and an increase in cash used for acquisitions, partially offset by $840 million in proceeds from the sale of the Workers’ Compensation business. In addition, cash used in investing activities reflected the following activity: • Gross capital expenditures remained relatively consistent at approximately $2.4 billion and $2.5 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. During 2020, approximately 62% of the Company’s total capital expenditures were for technology and other corporate initiatives, 30% were for store, fulfillment and support facilities expansion and improvements and 8% were for new store construction. • Net cash used in financing activities increased slightly to $8.2 billion in 2020 compared to $7.9 billion in 2019. The increase in cash used in finance activities primarily related to an increase in net debt repaid during 2020 compared to 2019. 82 Included in net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was the following store development activity: (1) _____________________________________________ (1) Includes retail drugstores and pharmacies within retail chains, primarily in Target Corporation (“Target”) stores. (2) Relocated stores are not included in new and acquired stores or closed stores totals. Short-term Borrowings Commercial Paper and Back-up Credit Facilities The Company did not have any commercial paper outstanding as of December 31, 2020 or 2019. In connection with its commercial paper program, the Company maintains a $1.0 billion 364-day unsecured back-up revolving credit facility, which expires on May 12, 2021, a $1.0 billion, five-year unsecured back-up revolving credit facility, which expires on May 18, 2022, a $2.0 billion, five-year unsecured back-up revolving credit facility, which expires on May 17, 2023 and a $2.0 billion, five-year unsecured back-up revolving credit facility, which expires on May 16, 2024. The credit facilities allow for borrowings at various rates that are dependent, in part, on the Company’s public debt ratings and require the Company to pay a weighted average quarterly facility fee of approximately 0.03%, regardless of usage. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, there were no borrowings outstanding under any of the Company’s back-up credit facilities. Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston Since the Aetna Acquisition Date, a subsidiary of the Company is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston (the “FHLBB”). As a member, the subsidiary has the ability to obtain cash advances, subject to certain minimum collateral requirements. The maximum borrowing capacity available from the FHLBB as of December 31, 2020 was approximately $925 million. At both December 31, 2020 and 2019, there were no outstanding advances from the FHLBB. Long-term Borrowings 2020 Notes On December 16, 2020, the Company issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 1.3% unsecured senior notes due August 21, 2027 and $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.875% unsecured senior notes due February 28, 2031 for total proceeds of approximately $1.99 billion, net of discounts and underwriting fees. The $750 million aggregate principal amount of 1.3% unsecured senior notes represent a further issuance of the Company’s 1.3% unsecured senior notes due August 21, 2027 initially issued in an aggregate principal amount of $1.5 billion on August 21, 2020. On August 21, 2020, the Company issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.3% unsecured senior notes due August 21, 2027, $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.75% unsecured senior notes due August 21, 2030 and $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.7% unsecured senior notes due August 21, 2040 (collectively, the “August 2020 Notes”) for total proceeds of approximately $3.97 billion, net of discounts and underwriting fees. On March 31, 2020, the Company issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.625% unsecured senior notes due April 1, 2027, $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.75% unsecured senior notes due April 1, 2030, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.125% unsecured senior notes due April 1, 2040 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% unsecured senior notes due April 1, 2050 (collectively, the “March 2020 Notes”) for total proceeds of approximately $3.95 billion, net of discounts and underwriting fees. The net proceeds of these offerings were used for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, capital expenditures, as well as the repurchase and/or repayment of indebtedness. During March 2020, the Company entered into several interest rate swap transactions to manage interest rate risk. These agreements were designated as cash flow hedges and were used to hedge the exposure to variability in future cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates related to the anticipated issuance of the March 2020 Notes. In connection with the 83 issuance of the March 2020 Notes, the Company terminated all outstanding cash flow hedges. The Company paid a net amount of $7 million to the hedge counterparties upon termination, which was recorded as a loss, net of tax, of $5 million in accumulated other comprehensive income and will be reclassified as interest expense over the life of the March 2020 Notes.  See Note 13 ‘‘Other Comprehensive Income’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information. 2019 Notes On August 15, 2019, the Company issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.625% unsecured senior notes due August 15, 2024, $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3% unsecured senior notes due August 15, 2026 and $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.25% unsecured senior notes due August 15, 2029 (collectively, the “2019 Notes”) for total proceeds of approximately $3.46 billion, net of discounts and underwriting fees. The net proceeds of the 2019 Notes were used to repay certain of the Company’s outstanding debt. Beginning in July 2019, the Company entered into several interest rate swap and treasury lock transactions to manage interest rate risk. These agreements were designated as cash flow hedges and were used to hedge the exposure to variability in future cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates related to the anticipated issuance of the 2019 Notes. In connection with the issuance of the 2019 Notes, the Company terminated all outstanding cash flow hedges. The Company paid a net amount of $25 million to the hedge counterparties upon termination, which was recorded as a loss, net of tax, of $18 million in accumulated other comprehensive income and will be reclassified as interest expense over the life of the 2019 Notes. See Note 13 ‘‘Other Comprehensive Income’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information. Early Extinguishments of Debt In December 2020, the Company purchased $4.5 billion of its outstanding senior notes through cash tender offers. The senior notes purchased included the following: $113 million of its 4.0% senior notes due 2023, $1.4 billion of its 3.7% senior notes due 2023, $1.0 billion of its 4.1% senior notes due 2025 and $2.0 billion of its 4.3% senior notes due 2028. In connection with the purchase of such senior notes, the Company paid a premium of $619 million in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes that were purchased, wrote-off $45 million of unamortized deferred financing costs and incurred $10 million in fees, for a total loss on early extinguishment of debt of $674 million. In August 2020, the Company purchased $6.0 billion of its outstanding senior notes through cash tender offers. The senior notes purchased included the following: $723 million of its 4.0% senior notes due 2023, $2.3 billion of its 3.7% senior notes due 2023 and $3.0 billion of its 4.1% senior notes due 2025. In connection with the purchase of such senior notes, the Company paid a premium of $706 million in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes that were purchased, wrote-off $47 million of unamortized deferred financing costs and incurred $13 million in fees, for a total loss on early extinguishment of debt of $766 million. In August 2019, the Company purchased $4.0 billion of its outstanding senior notes through cash tender offers. The senior notes purchased included the following: $1.3 billion of its 3.125% senior notes due 2020, $723 million of its floating rate notes due 2020, $328 million of its 4.125% senior notes due 2021, $297 million of 4.125% senior notes due 2021 issued by Aetna, $413 million of 5.45% senior notes due 2021 issued by Coventry Health Care, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aetna, and $962 million of its 3.35% senior notes due 2021. In connection with the purchase of such senior notes, the Company paid a premium of $76 million in excess of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes that were purchased, incurred $8 million in fees and recognized a net gain of $5 million on the write-off of net unamortized deferred financing premiums, for a net loss on early extinguishment of debt of $79 million. See Note 8 ‘‘Borrowings and Credit Agreements’’ and Note 12 ‘‘Shareholders’ Equity’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information about debt issuances, debt repayments, share repurchases and dividend payments. Derivative Financial Instruments The Company uses derivative financial instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risk and credit exposure. The Company’s use of these derivatives is generally limited to hedging risk and has principally consisted of using interest rate swaps, treasury rate locks, forward contracts, futures contracts, warrants, put options and credit default swaps. Debt Covenants The Company’s back-up revolving credit facilities, unsecured senior notes and unsecured floating rate notes (see Note 8 ‘‘Borrowings and Credit Agreements’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K) contain customary restrictive financial and operating covenants. These covenants do not include an acceleration of the Company’s debt maturities in the event of a downgrade in the 84 Company’s credit ratings. The Company does not believe the restrictions contained in these covenants materially affect its financial or operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2020, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. Debt Ratings As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s long-term debt was rated “Baa2” by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and “BBB” by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC (“S&P”), and its commercial paper program was rated “P-2” by Moody’s and “A-2” by S&P. The outlook on the Company’s long-term debt is “Stable” by S&P. In December 2020, Moody’s changed the outlook on the Company’s long-term debt from “Negative” to “Stable.” In assessing the Company’s credit strength, the Company believes that both Moody’s and S&P considered, among other things, the Company’s capital structure and financial policies as well as its consolidated balance sheet, its historical acquisition activity and other financial information. Although the Company currently believes its long-term debt ratings will remain investment grade, it cannot guarantee the future actions of Moody’s and/or S&P. The Company’s debt ratings have a direct impact on its future borrowing costs, access to capital markets and new store operating lease costs. Share Repurchase Programs During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018,  the Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock. See Note 12 ‘‘Shareholders’ Equity’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information on the Company’s share repurchase program. Quarterly Cash Dividend During 2020, 2019 and 2018, the quarterly cash dividend was $0.50 per share. CVS Health has paid cash dividends every quarter since becoming a public company and expects to maintain its quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share throughout 2021. Future dividends will depend on the Company’s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Board. Future Cash Requirements The following table summarizes certain estimated future cash requirements under the Company’s various contractual obligations at December 31, 2020, in total and disaggregated into current and long-term obligations. The table below does not include future payments of claims to health care providers or pharmacies because certain terms of these payments are not determinable at December 31, 2020 (for example, the timing and volume of future services provided under fee-for-service arrangements and future membership levels for capitated arrangements). _____________________________________________ (1) Refer to Note 6 ‘‘Leases’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information regarding the maturity of lease liabilities under operating and finance leases. (2) The Company leases pharmacy and clinic space from Target. See Note 6 ‘‘Leases’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information regarding the lease arrangements with Target. Amounts related to such operating and finance leases are reflected within the operating lease liabilities and finance lease liabilities in the table above. Pharmacy lease amounts due in excess of the remaining estimated economic life of the buildings are reflected in the table above assuming equivalent stores continue to operate through the term of the arrangements. (3) Refer to Note 8 ‘‘Borrowings and Credit Agreements’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information regarding the maturities of debt principal. Interest payments on long-term debt are calculated using outstanding balances and interest rates in effect on December 31, 2020. (4) Payments of other long-term liabilities exclude Separate Accounts liabilities of approximately $4.9 billion because these liabilities are supported by assets that are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of the Company’s business. 85 (5) Total payments of future policy benefits, unpaid claims and policyholders’ funds include $763 million, $2.0 billion and $210 million, respectively, of reserves for contracts subject to reinsurance. The Company expects the assuming reinsurance carrier to fund these obligations and has reflected these amounts as reinsurance recoverable assets on the consolidated balance sheets. (6) Customer funds associated with group life and health contracts of approximately $2.9 billion have been excluded from the table above because such funds may be used primarily at the customer’s discretion to offset future premiums and/or for refunds, and the timing of the related cash flows cannot be determined. Additionally, net unrealized capital gains on debt securities supporting experience-rated products of $135 million, before tax, have been excluded from the table above. Restrictions on Certain Payments In addition to general state law restrictions on payments of dividends and other distributions to stockholders applicable to all corporations, health maintenance organizations (“HMOs”) and insurance companies are subject to further regulations that, among other things, may require those companies to maintain certain levels of equity (referred to as surplus) and restrict the amount of dividends and other distributions that may be paid to their equity holders. These regulations are not directly applicable to CVS Health as a holding company, since CVS Health is not an HMO or an insurance company. In addition, in connection with the Aetna Acquisition, the Company made certain undertakings that require prior regulatory approval of dividends by certain of its HMOs and insurance companies. The additional regulations and undertakings applicable to the Company’s HMO and insurance company subsidiaries are not expected to affect the Company’s ability to service the Company’s debt, meet other financing obligations or pay dividends, or the ability of any of the Company’s subsidiaries to service their debt or other financing obligations. Under applicable regulatory requirements and undertakings, at December 31, 2020, the maximum amount of dividends that may be paid by the Company’s insurance and HMO subsidiaries without prior approval by regulatory authorities was $2.9 billion in the aggregate. The Company maintains capital levels in its operating subsidiaries at or above targeted and/or required capital levels and dividends amounts in excess of these levels to meet liquidity requirements, including the payment of interest on debt and stockholder dividends. In addition, at the Company’s discretion, it uses these funds for other purposes such as funding share and debt repurchase programs, investments in new businesses and other purposes considered advisable. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company held investments of $524 million and $537 million, respectively, that are not accounted for as Separate Accounts assets but are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of the Company’s business. See Note 3 ‘‘Investments’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information on investments related to the 2012 conversion of an existing group annuity contract from a participating to a non-participating contract. Solvency Regulation The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (the “NAIC”) utilizes risk-based capital (“RBC”) standards for insurance companies that are designed to identify weakly-capitalized companies by comparing each company’s adjusted surplus to its required surplus (the “RBC Ratio”). The RBC Ratio is designed to reflect the risk profile of insurance companies. Within certain ratio ranges, regulators have increasing authority to take action as the RBC Ratio decreases. There are four levels of regulatory action, ranging from requiring an insurer to submit a comprehensive financial plan for increasing its RBC to the state insurance commissioner to requiring the state insurance commissioner to place the insurer under regulatory control. At December 31, 2020, the RBC Ratio of each of the Company’s primary insurance subsidiaries was above the level that would require regulatory action. The RBC framework described above for insurers has been extended by the NAIC to health organizations, including HMOs. Although not all states had adopted these rules at December 31, 2020, at that date, each of the Company’s active HMOs had a surplus that exceeded either the applicable state net worth requirements or, where adopted, the levels that would require regulatory action under the NAIC’s RBC rules. External rating agencies use their own capital models and/or RBC standards when they determine a company’s rating. 86 Critical Accounting Policies The Company prepares the consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make certain estimates and apply judgment. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be important at the time the consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, the Company reviews its accounting policies and how they are applied and disclosed in the consolidated financial statements. While the Company believes the historical experience, current trends and other factors considered by management support the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, actual results could differ from estimates, and such differences could be material. Significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 ‘‘Significant Accounting Policies’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K. Management believes the following accounting policies include a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity and, thus, are considered to be critical accounting policies. The Company has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board (the “Audit Committee”), and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures relating to them. Revenue Recognition Pharmacy Services Segment The Pharmacy Services segment sells prescription drugs directly through its mail service dispensing pharmacies and indirectly through the Company’s retail pharmacy network. The Company’s pharmacy benefit arrangements are accounted for in a manner consistent with a master supply arrangement as there are no contractual minimum volumes and each prescription is considered a separate purchasing decision and distinct performance obligation transferred at a point in time. PBM services performed in connection with each prescription claim are considered part of a single performance obligation which culminates in the dispensing of prescription drugs. The Company recognizes revenue using the gross method at the contract price negotiated with its clients when the Company has concluded it controls the prescription drug before it is transferred to the client plan members. The Company controls prescriptions dispensed indirectly through its retail pharmacy network because it has separate contractual arrangements with those pharmacies, has discretion in setting the price for the transaction and assumes primary responsibility for fulfilling the promise to provide prescription drugs to its client plan members while also performing the related PBM services. Revenues include (i) the portion of the price the client pays directly to the Company, net of any discounts earned on brand name drugs or other discounts and refunds paid back to the client (see “Drug Discounts” and “Guarantees” below), (ii) the price paid to the Company by client plan members for mail order prescriptions and the price paid to retail network pharmacies by client plan members for retail prescriptions (“retail co-payments”), and (iii) claims based administrative fees for retail pharmacy network contracts. Sales taxes are not included in revenues. The Company recognizes revenue when control of the prescription drugs is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those prescription drugs. The Company has established the following revenue recognition policies for the Pharmacy Services segment: • Revenues generated from prescription drugs sold by mail service dispensing pharmacies are recognized when the prescription drug is delivered to the client plan member. At the time of delivery, the Company has performed substantially all of its performance obligations under its client contracts and does not experience a significant level of returns or reshipments. • Revenues generated from prescription drugs sold by third party pharmacies in the Company’s retail pharmacy network and associated administrative fees are recognized at the Company’s point-of-sale, which is when the claim is adjudicated by the Company’s online claims processing system and the Company has transferred control of the prescription drug and performed all of its performance obligations. For contracts under which the Company acts as an agent or does not control the prescription drugs prior to transfer to the client plan member, revenue is recognized using the net method. Drug Discounts The Company records revenue net of manufacturers’ rebates earned by its clients based on their plan members’ utilization of brand-name formulary drugs. The Company estimates these rebates at period-end based on actual and estimated claims data and its estimates of the manufacturers’ rebates earned by its clients. The estimates are based on the best available data at period-end 87 and recent history for the various factors that can affect the amount of rebates due to the client. The Company adjusts its rebates payable to clients to the actual amounts paid when these rebates are paid or as significant events occur. Any cumulative effect of these adjustments is recorded against revenues at the time it is identified. Adjustments generally result from contract changes with clients or manufacturers that have retroactive rebate adjustments, differences between the estimated and actual product mix subject to rebates, or whether the brand name drug was included in the applicable formulary. The effect of adjustments between estimated and actual manufacturers’ rebate amounts has not been material to the Company’s operating results or financial condition. Guarantees The Company also adjusts revenues for refunds owed to clients resulting from pricing guarantees and performance against defined service and performance metrics. The inputs to these estimates are not subject to a high degree of subjectivity or volatility. The effect of adjustments between estimated and actual pricing and performance refund amounts has not been material to the Company’s operating results or financial condition. Retail/LTC Segment Retail Pharmacy The Company’s retail drugstores recognize revenue at the time the customer takes possession of the merchandise. For pharmacy sales, each prescription claim is its own arrangement with the customer and is a performance obligation, separate and distinct from other prescription claims under other retail network arrangements. Revenues are adjusted for refunds owed to third party payers resulting from pricing guarantees and performance against defined value-based service and performance metrics. The inputs to these estimates are not subject to a high degree of subjectivity or volatility. The effect of adjustments between estimated and actual pricing and performance refund amounts has not been material to the Company’s operating results or financial condition. Revenue from Company gift cards purchased by customers is deferred as a contract liability until goods or services are transferred. Any amounts not expected to be redeemed by customers (i.e., breakage) are recognized based on historical redemption patterns. Customer returns are not material to the Company’s operating results or financial condition. Sales taxes are not included in revenues. Loyalty and Other Programs The Company’s customer loyalty program, ExtraCare ® , consists of two components, ExtraSavings TM and ExtraBucks ® Rewards. ExtraSavings are coupons that are recorded as a reduction of revenue when redeemed as the Company concluded that they do not represent a promise to the customer to deliver additional goods or services at the time of issuance because they are not tied to a specific transaction or spending level. ExtraBucks Rewards are accumulated by customers based on their historical spending levels. Thus, the Company has determined that there is an additional performance obligation to those customers at the time of the initial transaction. The Company allocates the transaction price to the initial transaction and the ExtraBucks Rewards transaction based upon the relative standalone selling price, which considers historical redemption patterns for the rewards. Revenue allocated to ExtraBucks Rewards is recognized as those rewards are redeemed. At the end of each period, unredeemed ExtraBucks Rewards are reflected as a contract liability. The Company also offers a subscription-based membership program, CarePass ® , under which members are entitled to a suite of benefits delivered over the course of the subscription period, as well as a promotional reward that can be redeemed for future goods and services. Subscriptions are paid for on a monthly or annual basis at the time of or in advance of the Company delivering the goods and services. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized as the performance obligations are satisfied. Long-term Care Revenue is recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. Each prescription claim represents a separate performance obligation of the Company, separate and distinct from other prescription claims under customer arrangements. A significant portion of Long-term Care revenue from sales of pharmaceutical and medical products is reimbursed by the federal Medicare Part D program and, to a lesser extent, state Medicaid programs. The Company monitors its revenues and receivables from these reimbursement sources, as well as long-term care facilities and other third party insurance payors, and reduces revenue at the revenue recognition date to properly account for the variable consideration due to anticipated 88 differences between billed and reimbursed amounts. Accordingly, the total revenues and receivables reported in the Company’s consolidated financial statements are recorded at the amount expected to be ultimately received from these payors. Patient co-payments associated with Medicare Part D, certain state Medicaid programs, Medicare Part B and certain third party payors typically are not collected at the time products are delivered or services are rendered, but are billed to the individuals as part of normal billing procedures and subject to normal accounts receivable collections procedures. Walk-In Medical Clinics For services provided by the Company’s walk-in medical clinics, revenue recognition occurs for completed services provided to patients, with adjustments taken for third party payor contractual obligations and patient direct bill historical collection rates. Health Care Benefits Segment Health Care Benefits revenue is principally derived from insurance premiums and fees billed to customers. Revenue is recognized based on customer billings, which reflect contracted rates per employee and the number of covered employees recorded in the Company’s records at the time the billings are prepared. Billings are generally sent monthly for coverage during the following month. The Company’s billings may be subsequently adjusted to reflect enrollment changes due to member terminations or other factors. These adjustments are known as retroactivity adjustments. In each period, the Company estimates the amount of future retroactivity and adjusts the recorded revenue accordingly. As information regarding actual retroactivity amounts becomes known, the Company refines its estimates and records any required adjustments to revenues in the period in which they arise. A significant difference in the actual level of retroactivity compared to estimated levels would have a significant effect on the Company’s operating results. Premium Revenue Premiums are recognized as revenue in the month in which the enrollee is entitled to receive health care services. Premiums are reported net of an allowance for estimated terminations and uncollectible amounts. Additionally, premium revenue subject to the MLR rebate requirements of the ACA is recorded net of the estimated minimum MLR rebates for the current calendar year. Premiums related to unexpired contractual coverage periods (unearned premiums) are reported as other insurance liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets and recognized as revenue when earned. Some of the Company’s contracts allow for premiums to be adjusted to reflect actual experience or the relative health status of Insured members. Such adjustments are reasonably estimable at the outset of the contract, and adjustments to those estimates are made based on actual experience of the customer emerging under the contract and the terms of the underlying contract. Services Revenue Services revenue relates to contracts that can include various combinations of services or series of services which generally are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. The Health Care Benefits segment’s services revenue primarily consists of ASC fees received in exchange for performing certain claim processing and member services for ASC members. ASC fee revenue is recognized over the period the service is provided. Some of the Company’s administrative services contracts include guarantees with respect to certain functions, such as customer service response time, claim processing accuracy and claim processing turnaround time, as well as certain guarantees that a plan sponsor’s benefit claim experience will fall within a certain range. With any of these guarantees, the Company is financially at risk if the conditions of the arrangements are not met, although the maximum amount at risk typically is limited to a percentage of the fees otherwise payable to the Company by the customer involved. Each period the Company estimates its obligations under the terms of these guarantees and records its estimate as an offset to services revenues. Accounting for Medicare Part D Revenues include insurance premiums earned by the Company’s PDPs, which are determined based on the PDP’s annual bid and related contractual arrangements with CMS. The insurance premiums include a beneficiary premium, which is the responsibility of the PDP member, and can be subsidized by CMS in the case of low-income members, and a direct premium paid by CMS. Premiums collected in advance are initially recorded within other insurance liabilities and are then recognized ratably as revenue over the period in which members are entitled to receive benefits. Revenues also include a risk-sharing feature of the Medicare Part D program design referred to as the risk corridor. The Company estimates variable consideration in the form of amounts payable to, or receivable from, CMS under the risk corridor, and adjusts revenue based on calculations of additional subsidies to be received from or owed to CMS at the end of the reporting year. 89 In addition to Medicare Part D premiums, the Company receives additional payments each month from CMS related to catastrophic reinsurance, low-income cost-sharing subsidies and coverage gap benefits. If the subsidies received differ from the amounts earned from actual prescriptions transferred, the difference is recorded in either accounts receivable, net or accrued expenses. Impairments of Debt Securities The Company regularly reviews its debt securities to determine whether a decline in fair value below the cost basis or carrying value has occurred. If a debt security is in an unrealized loss position and the Company has the intent to sell the security, or it is more likely than not that the Company will have to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the amortized cost basis of the security is written down to its fair value and the difference is recognized in net income. If a debt security is in an unrealized loss position and the Company does not have the intent to sell and it is more likely than not that the Company will not have to sell such security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the Company bifurcates the impairment into credit-related and non-credit related components. The amount of the credit-related component is recorded as an allowance for credit losses and recognized in net income, and the amount of the non-credit related component is included in other comprehensive income. The Company analyzes all facts and circumstances believed to be relevant for each investment when performing this analysis, in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. In evaluating whether a credit related loss exists, the Company considers a variety of factors including: the extent to which the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis; adverse conditions specifically related to the issuer of a security, an industry or geographic area; the payment structure of the security; the failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled interest or principle payments; and any changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded yield-related impairment losses on debt securities of $49 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company did not record credit-related impairment losses on debt securities. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) losses on debt securities of $24 million. There were no material OTTI losses on debt securities for the year ended December 31, 2018. The risks inherent in assessing the impairment of a debt security include the risk that market factors may differ from projections and the risk that facts and circumstances factored into the Company’s assessment may change with the passage of time. Unexpected changes to market factors and circumstances that were not present in past reporting periods are among the factors that may result in a current period decision to sell debt securities that were not impaired in prior reporting periods. Vendor Allowances and Purchase Discounts Vendor and manufacturer receivables were $9.8 billion and $7.9 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, the majority of which relate to purchase discounts and vendor allowances as described below. Pharmacy Services Segment The Pharmacy Services segment receives purchase discounts on products purchased. Contractual arrangements with vendors, including manufacturers, wholesalers and retail pharmacies, normally provide for the Pharmacy Services segment to receive purchase discounts from established list prices in one, or a combination, of the following forms: (i) a direct discount at the time of purchase, (ii) a discount for the prompt payment of invoices or (iii) when products are purchased indirectly from a manufacturer (e.g., through a wholesaler or retail pharmacy), a discount (or rebate) paid subsequent to dispensing. These rebates are recognized when prescriptions are dispensed and are generally calculated and billed to manufacturers within 30 days of the end of each completed quarter. Historically, the effect of adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of rebates recognized to the amounts billed and collected has not been material to the Company’s operating results or financial condition. The Company accounts for the effect of any such differences as a change in accounting estimate in the period the reconciliation is completed. The Pharmacy Services segment also receives additional discounts under its wholesaler contracts if it exceeds contractually defined purchase volumes. In addition, the Pharmacy Services segment receives fees from pharmaceutical manufacturers for administrative services. Purchase discounts and administrative service fees are recorded as a reduction of cost of products sold. Retail/LTC Segment Vendor allowances received by the Retail/LTC segment reduce the carrying cost of inventory and are recognized in cost of products sold when the related inventory is sold, unless they are specifically identified as a reimbursement of incremental costs for promotional programs and/or other services provided. Amounts that are directly linked to advertising commitments are 90 recognized as a reduction of advertising expense (included in operating expenses) when the related advertising commitment is satisfied. Any such allowances received in excess of the actual cost incurred also reduce the carrying cost of inventory. The total value of any upfront payments received from vendors that are linked to purchase commitments is initially deferred. The deferred amounts are then amortized to reduce cost of products sold over the life of the contract based upon purchase volume. The total value of any upfront payments received from vendors that are not linked to purchase commitments is also initially deferred. The deferred amounts are then amortized to reduce cost of products sold on a straight-line basis over the life of the related contract. The Company establishes a receivable for vendor income that is earned but not yet received based on historical trends and data. The majority of vendor receivables are collected within the following fiscal quarter. Historically, adjustments to the Company’s vendor receivables resulting from the reconciliation of receivables recognized to the amounts collected have not been material to the Company’s operating results or financial condition. There have not been any material changes in the way the Company accounts for vendor allowances or purchase discounts during the past three years. Inventory Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value using the weighted average cost method. The value of ending inventory is reduced for estimated inventory losses that have occurred during the interim period between physical inventory counts. Physical inventory counts are taken on a regular basis in each retail store and LTC pharmacy, and a continuous cycle count process is the primary procedure used to validate the inventory balances on hand in each distribution center and mail facility to ensure that the amounts reflected in the consolidated financial statements are properly stated. The Company’s accounting for inventory contains uncertainty since management must use judgment to estimate the inventory losses that have occurred during the interim period between physical inventory counts. When estimating these losses, a number of factors are considered which include historical physical inventory results on a location-by-location basis and current physical inventory loss trends. The total reserve for estimated inventory losses covered by this critical accounting policy was $369 million and $401 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Although management believes there is sufficient current and historical information available to record reasonable estimates for estimated inventory losses, it is possible that actual results could differ. In order to help investors assess the aggregate risk, if any, associated with the inventory-related uncertainties discussed above, a ten percent (10%) pre-tax change in estimated inventory losses, which is a reasonably likely change, would increase or decrease the total reserve for estimated inventory losses by approximately $37 million as of December 31, 2020. Although management believes that the estimates discussed above are reasonable and the related calculations conform to generally accepted accounting principles, actual results could differ from such estimates, and such differences could be material. Right-of-Use Assets and Lease Liabilities The Company determines if an arrangement contains a lease at the inception of a contract. Right-of-use assets represent the Company’s right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Company’s obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the commencement date of the lease, renewal date of the lease or significant remodeling of the lease space based on the present value of the remaining future minimum lease payments. As the interest rate implicit in the Company’s leases is not readily determinable, the Company utilizes its incremental borrowing rate, determined by class of underlying asset, to discount the lease payments. The operating lease right-of-use assets also include lease payments made before commencement and are reduced by lease incentives. The Company’s real estate leases typically contain options that permit renewals for additional periods of up to five years each. For real estate leases, the options to extend are not considered reasonably certain at lease commencement because the Company reevaluates each lease on a regular basis to consider the economic and strategic incentives of exercising the renewal options and regularly opens or closes stores to align with its operating strategy. Generally, the renewal option periods are not included within the lease term and the associated payments are not included in the measurement of the right-of-use asset and lease liability. Similarly, renewal options are not included in the lease term for non-real estate leases because they are not considered reasonably certain of being exercised at lease commencement. Leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheets, and lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the short-term lease. 91 For real estate leases, the Company accounts for lease components and nonlease components as a single lease component.  Certain real estate leases require additional payments based on sales volume, as well as reimbursement for real estate taxes, common area maintenance and insurance, which are expensed as incurred as variable lease costs. Other real estate leases contain one fixed lease payment that includes real estate taxes, common area maintenance and insurance. These fixed payments are considered part of the lease payment and included in the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Long-Lived Asset Impairment Recoverability of Definite-Lived Assets The Company evaluates the recoverability of long-lived assets, excluding goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which are tested for impairment using separate tests described below, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such an asset may not be recoverable. The Company groups and evaluates these long-lived assets for impairment at the lowest level at which individual cash flows can be identified. If indicators of impairment are present, the Company first compares the carrying amount of the asset group to the estimated future cash flows associated with the asset group (undiscounted and without interest charges). If the estimated future cash flows used in this analysis are less than the carrying amount of the asset group, an impairment loss calculation is prepared. The impairment loss calculation compares the carrying amount of the asset group to the asset group’s estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest charges). If required, an impairment loss is recorded for the portion of the asset group’s carrying value that exceeds the asset group’s estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest charges). The long-lived asset impairment loss calculation contains uncertainty since management must use judgment to estimate each asset group’s future sales, profitability and cash flows. When preparing these estimates, the Company considers historical results and current operating trends and consolidated sales, profitability and cash flow results and forecasts. These estimates can be affected by a number of factors including general economic and regulatory conditions, efforts of third party organizations to reduce their prescription drug costs and/or increased member co-payments, the continued efforts of competitors to gain market share and consumer spending patterns. There were no material impairment charges recognized on long-lived assets in the year ended December 31, 2020. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded store rationalization charges of $231 million, primarily related to operating lease right-of-use asset impairment charges. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recognized a $43 million long-lived asset impairment charge, primarily related to the impairment of property and equipment. Recoverability of Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquisitions over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired. Goodwill is subject to annual impairment reviews, or more frequent reviews if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment on a reporting unit basis. The impairment test is performed by comparing the reporting unit’s fair value with its net book value (or carrying amount), including goodwill. The fair value of the reporting units is estimated using a combination of a discounted cash flow method and a market multiple method. If the net book value (carrying amount) of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the reporting unit’s goodwill is considered to be impaired, and an impairment is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires the Company to make significant assumptions and estimates. These assumptions and estimates primarily include the selection of appropriate peer group companies; control premiums and valuation multiples appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which the Company competes; discount rates; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization, income taxes, capital expenditures and future working capital requirements. When determining these assumptions and preparing these estimates, the Company considers each reporting unit’s historical results and current operating trends; consolidated revenues, profitability and cash flow results and forecasts; and industry trends. The Company’s estimates can be affected by a number of factors, including general economic and regulatory conditions; the risk-free interest rate environment; the Company’s market capitalization; efforts of customers and payers to reduce costs, including their prescription drug costs, and/or increase member co-payments; the continued efforts of competitors to gain market share, consumer spending patterns and the Company’s ability to achieve its revenue growth projections and execute on its cost reduction initiatives. 2020 Goodwill Impairment Test During the third quarter of 2020, the Company performed its required annual impairment test of goodwill. The results of this impairment test indicated that there was no impairment of goodwill as of the testing date. The goodwill impairment test resulted in the fair values of all of the Company’s reporting units exceeding their carrying values by significant margins, with the 92 exception of the Commercial Business and LTC reporting units, which exceeded their carrying values by approximately 6% and 12%, respectively. In connection with the Aetna Acquisition in November 2018, the Company added the Health Care Benefits segment which included the Commercial Business reporting unit. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires, among other things, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be recognized at their fair values at the date of acquisition. As a result, at the time of the acquisition the fair value of the Commercial Business reporting unit was equal to its carrying value. The Company has experienced declines in its Commercial Insured medical membership subsequent to the closing date of the Aetna Acquisition and may continue to do so for a number of reasons, including as a result of the competitive Commercial business environment. In addition, COVID-19 has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on medical membership in the Commercial business due to reductions in workforce at existing customers (including due to business failures) as well as reduced willingness to change benefit providers by prospective customers. The Company’s fair value estimate is sensitive to significant assumptions including changes in medical membership, revenue growth rate, operating income and the discount rate. Although the Company believes the financial projections used to determine the fair value of the Commercial Business reporting unit in the third quarter of 2020 were reasonable and achievable, the challenges described above may affect the Company’s ability to increase medical membership or operating income in the Commercial Business reporting unit at the rate estimated when such goodwill impairment test was performed and may continue to do so. As of December 31, 2020, the goodwill balance in the Commercial Business reporting unit was $26.5 billion. The LTC reporting unit continues to experience industry-wide challenges that have impacted management’s ability to grow the business at the rate that was originally estimated when the Company acquired Omnicare in 2015. Those challenges included lower client retention rates, lower occupancy rates in skilled nursing facilities, the deteriorating financial health of numerous skilled nursing facility customers which resulted in a number of customer bankruptcies in 2018, and continued facility reimbursement pressures. COVID-19 has also had an adverse impact on the financial health of the Company’s long-term care facility customers due to declines in occupancy rates and increased operating expenses. A number of these customers have relied on supplemental liquidity sources such as grants and advance Medicare payments under programs expanded or created under the CARES Act to maintain adequate liquidity during the COVID-19 pandemic and may require additional sources of liquidity throughout the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although the Company believes the financial projections used to determine the fair value of the LTC reporting unit in the third quarter of 2020 were reasonable and achievable, the LTC reporting unit has faced challenges that affect the Company’s ability to grow the LTC reporting unit’s business at the rate estimated when such goodwill impairment test was performed and may continue to do so. These challenges and some of the key assumptions included in the Company’s financial projections to determine the estimated fair value of the LTC reporting unit include client retention rates; occupancy rates in skilled nursing facilities; the financial health of skilled nursing facility customers; facility reimbursement pressures; the Company’s ability to extract cost savings from labor productivity and other initiatives; the geographies impacted and the severity and duration of COVID-19; COVID-19’s impact on health care utilization patterns; and the timing, scope and impact of stimulus legislation as well as other federal, state and local governmental responses to COVID-19. The fair value of the LTC reporting unit also is dependent on market multiples of peer group companies and the risk-free interest rate environment, which impacts the discount rate used in the discounted cash flow valuation method. If the LTC reporting unit does not achieve its forecasts, it is reasonably possible in the near term that the goodwill of the LTC reporting unit could be deemed to be impaired by a material amount. As of December 31, 2020, the goodwill balance in the LTC reporting unit was $431 million. The COVID-19 pandemic severely impacted global economic activity in 2020, including the businesses of some of the Company’s customers, and during the first half of the year caused significant volatility and negative pressure in the capital markets. In addition to adversely affecting the Company’s businesses, which may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability and cash flows, these developments may adversely affect the timing and collectability of payments to the Company from customers, clients, government payers and members as a result of the impact of COVID-19 on them. For further information regarding the potential adverse impact of COVID-19 on the Company, please see “Risk Factors” included in Item 1A of this report. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. We believe COVID-19’s impact on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition primarily will be driven by the geographies impacted and the severity and duration of the pandemic; the pandemic’s impact on the U.S. and global economies and consumer behavior and health care utilization patterns; and the timing, scope and impact of stimulus legislation as well as other federal, state and local governmental responses to the pandemic. Those primary drivers are beyond our knowledge and control. As a result, the impact COVID-19 will have on our businesses, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition is uncertain, but the impact could be adverse and material. COVID-19 also may result in legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations and claims against 93 us. If the Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows are materially adversely affected, the goodwill of the LTC and Commercial Business reporting units could be deemed to be impaired by a material amount. 2019 Goodwill Impairment Test During the third quarter of 2019, the Company performed its required annual impairment test of goodwill. The results of this impairment test indicated that there was no impairment of goodwill as of the testing date. The goodwill impairment test resulted in the fair values of all of the Company’s reporting units exceeding their carrying values by significant margins, with the exception of the Commercial Business and LTC reporting units, which exceeded their carrying values by approximately 4% and 9%, respectively. 2018 Goodwill Impairment Tests As discussed in Note 5 ‘‘Goodwill and Other Intangibles’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K, during 2018, the LTC reporting unit experienced industry-wide challenges that impacted management’s ability to grow the business at the rate that was originally estimated when the Company acquired Omnicare and when the 2017 annual goodwill impairment test was performed. Those challenges include lower client retention rates, lower occupancy rates in skilled nursing facilities, the deteriorating financial health of numerous skilled nursing facility customers which resulted in a number of customer bankruptcies in 2018, and continued facility reimbursement pressures. Following the update of its current and long-term forecast, in June 2018, management determined that there were indicators that the LTC reporting unit’s goodwill may be impaired and, accordingly, management performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of June 30, 2018. The results of that interim impairment test showed that the fair value of the LTC reporting unit was lower than the carrying value, resulting in a $3.9 billion pre-tax goodwill impairment charge in the second quarter of 2018. During the third quarter of 2018, the Company performed its required annual impairment tests of goodwill and concluded there was no impairment of goodwill. The goodwill impairment tests showed that the fair values of the Pharmacy Services and Retail Pharmacy reporting units exceeded their carrying values by significant margins and the fair value of the LTC reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 2%. During the fourth quarter of 2018, the LTC reporting unit missed its forecast primarily due to operational issues and customer liquidity issues, including one significant customer bankruptcy. Additionally, LTC management submitted updated projected financial results which showed significant additional deterioration primarily due to continued industry and operational challenges, which also caused management to make further updates to its long-term forecast beyond 2019. Based on these updated projections, management determined that there were indicators that the LTC reporting unit’s goodwill may be further impaired and, accordingly, management performed an interim goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2018. The results of that interim impairment test showed that the fair value of the LTC reporting unit was lower than the carrying value, resulting in an additional $2.2 billion pre-tax goodwill impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2018. In 2018, the fair value of the LTC reporting unit was determined using a combination of a discounted cash flow method and a market multiple method. In addition to the lower financial projections, changes in risk-free interest rates and lower market multiples of peer group companies also contributed to the amount of the 2018 goodwill impairment charges. Recoverability of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to annual impairment reviews, or more frequent reviews if events or circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested by comparing the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized, and the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. The indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment loss calculation contains uncertainty since management must use judgment to estimate fair value based on the assumption that, in lieu of ownership of an intangible asset, the Company would be willing to pay a royalty in order to utilize the benefits of the asset. Fair value is estimated by discounting the hypothetical royalty payments to their present value over the estimated economic life of the asset. These estimates can be affected by a number of factors including general economic conditions, availability of market information and the profitability of the Company. There were no impairment losses recognized on indefinite-lived intangible assets in any of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018. Health Care Costs Payable At December 31, 2020 and 2019, 77% and 73% respectively, of health care costs payable are estimates of the ultimate cost of (i) services rendered to the Company’s Insured members but not yet reported to the Company and (ii) claims which have been 94 reported to the Company but not yet paid (collectively, “IBNR”). Health care costs payable also include an estimate of the cost of services that will continue to be rendered after the financial statement date if the Company is obligated to pay for such services in accordance with contractual or regulatory requirements. The remainder of health care costs payable is primarily comprised of pharmacy and capitation payables, other amounts due to providers pursuant to risk sharing agreements and accruals for state assessments. The Company develops its estimate of IBNR using actuarial principles and assumptions that consider numerous factors. See Note 1 ‘‘Significant Accounting Policies’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for additional information on the Company’s reserving methodology. During 2020 and 2019, the Company observed an increase in completion factors relative to those assumed at the prior year end. After considering the claims paid in 2020 and 2019 with dates of service prior to the fourth quarter of the previous year, the Company observed assumed incurred claim weighted average completion factors that were 4 and 27 basis points higher, respectively, than previously estimated, resulting in a decrease of $35 million and $240 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, in health care costs payable that related to the prior year. The Company has considered the pattern of changes in its completion factors when determining the completion factors used in its estimates of IBNR as of December 31, 2020. However, based on historical claim experience, it is reasonably possible that the Company’s estimated weighted average completion factors may vary by plus or minus 11 basis points from the Company’s assumed rates, which could impact health care costs payable by approximately plus or minus $140 million pretax. Also during 2020 and 2019, the Company observed that health care costs for claims with claim incurred dates of three months or less before the financial statement date were lower than previously estimated. Specifically, after considering the claims paid in 2020 and 2019 with claim incurred dates for the fourth quarter of the previous year, the Company observed health care costs that were 4.0% and 3.2% lower, respectively, for each fourth quarter than previously estimated, resulting in a reduction of $394 million and $284 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, in health care costs payable that related to prior year. Management considers historical health care cost trend rates together with its knowledge of recent events that may impact current trends when developing estimates of current health care cost trend rates. When establishing reserves as of December 31, 2020, the Company increased its assumed health care cost trend rates for the most recent three months by 9.6% from health care cost trend rates recently observed. Assumed health care cost trend rates during the fourth quarter of 2020 are elevated compared to historical levels due to the impact of COVID-19 pandemic on utilization during 2020. Specifically, beginning in mid-March, the health system experienced a significant reduction in utilization that is discretionary and the cancellation of elective medical procedures. Utilization remained below historical levels through April, began to recover in May and June and reached more normal levels in the third and fourth quarters, with select geographies impacted by COVID-19 waves. Based on historical claim experience, it is reasonably possible that the Company’s estimated health care cost trend rates may vary by plus or minus 3.5% from the assumed rates, which could impact health care costs payable by plus or minus $404 million pretax. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are established for any temporary differences between financial and tax reporting bases and are adjusted as needed to reflect changes in the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when the temporary differences reverse. Such adjustments are recorded in the period in which changes in tax laws are enacted, regardless of when they are effective. Deferred tax assets are reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance to the extent future realization of those losses, deductions or other tax benefits is sufficiently uncertain. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and the related taxes payable and deferred tax assets and liabilities since, in the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Company’s tax returns are subject to audit by various domestic and foreign tax authorities that could result in material adjustments based on differing interpretations of the tax laws. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable and are based on the best available information at the time the provision is prepared, actual results could differ from these estimates resulting in a final tax outcome that may be materially different from that which is reflected in the consolidated financial statements. The tax benefit from an uncertain tax position is recognized only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement with the related tax authority. Interest and/or penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized in the income tax provision. Significant judgment is required in determining uncertain tax positions. The Company has established accruals for uncertain tax positions using its judgment and adjusts these accruals, as warranted, due to changing facts and circumstances. 95 New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 ‘‘Significant Accounting Policies’’ included in Item 8 of this 10-K for a description of new accounting pronouncements applicable to the Company. 96