********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Relating to Operating Our Business The outbreak of COVID-19 and COVID-19 related impacts have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant impact on our operations and results of operations. COVID-19 and mitigation measures recommended or required by public health officials to slow the spread of COVID-19 have materially adversely affected our operations. All of our casino properties were temporarily closed for the period from mid-March 2020 through mid-May 2020 due to orders issued by various government agencies and tribal bodies and, following re-opening of our properties, our operations have been affected by social distancing measures, including reduced gaming operations, limitations on number of customers present in our facilities, restrictions on hotel, food and beverage outlets and limits on events that would otherwise attract customers to our properties. While restrictions on our operations were eased in 2021 and we experienced positive operating trends during 2021, we continued to see a prolonged impact of COVID-19 on the economy, our industry and our Company, with increased challenges arising from labor shortages, supply chain challenges, increasing costs of goods and services, inflation and rising interest rates, among other impacts. The continuing impact of COVID-19 and such related challenges on our business will ultimately depend on future developments, including but not limited to, the duration and severity of the outbreak or new variants, restrictions on operations imposed by governmental authorities, the potential for authorities reimposing stay at home orders, international and domestic travel restrictions or additional restrictions in response to continued developments with the COVID-19 public health emergency, our ability to adapt to evolving operating procedures and maintain adequate staffing in response to increased customer demand, the impact on consumer demand and discretionary spending, the efficacy and acceptance of vaccines, and our ability to adjust our cost structures for the duration of any such interruption of our operations. The extent and duration of the impact of COVID-19 on our business is difficult to predict, but it could be significant and protracted, and we expect that our business and the casino resort industry and economy generally will continue to be impacted by shortages of labor, supply chain challenges, increasing costs of goods and services, inflation and rising interest rates and that such impacts may intensify. We face substantial competition and expect that such competition will continue. The gaming industry is highly competitive and competition is intense in most of the markets in which we operate. We compete with a variety of gaming operations, including land-based casinos, dockside casinos, riverboat casinos, casinos located on racing tracks and casinos located on Native American reservations and other forms of legalized gaming such as video gaming terminals at bars, restaurants and truck stops and online gambling and sports betting. We also compete, to a lesser extent, with other forms of legalized gaming and entertainment such as bingo, pull tab games, card parlors, sportsbooks, fantasy sports websites, “cruise-to-nowhere” operations, pari-mutuel or telephonic betting on horse racing and dog racing, state-sponsored lotteries, jai-alai and, in the future, may compete with gaming at other venues. In addition, we compete more generally with other forms of entertainment for the discretionary spending of our customers. In some instances, particularly in the case of Native American casinos, our competitors pay lower taxes or no taxes. In recent years, many casino and online gaming operators, including us, have reinvested in existing jurisdictions to attract new customers or to gain market share, thereby increasing competition in those jurisdictions. In particular, we and other online betting and gaming operators have undertaken extensive marketing campaigns and made significant investments in customer acquisition through pricing and promotional policies. In addition, in response to changing trends, Las Vegas operators have been focused on expanding their non-gaming offerings, including upgrades to hotel rooms, new food and beverage offerings, and new entertainment offerings. The expansion of online betting and gaming in new jurisdictions and the growth of the number of competitors in the online betting and gaming market, the expansion of existing casino entertainment properties, the increase in the number of properties, and the aggressive marketing strategies of many of our competitors have increased competition in many markets in which we operate, and this intense competition is expected to continue. These competitive pressures have and are expected to continue to adversely affect our financial performance. Our brick-and-mortar operations face increasing competition as a result of the expansion of legalized online gaming and betting, including our own online betting and gaming operations, in a number of the jurisdictions in which we operate. While we believe that we are well positioned to compete with new entrants to the betting and gaming market through our online betting and gaming offerings, the competitive dynamic is evolving and we cannot assure you that our results of operations will not be adversely impacted by the expansion of legalized online gaming and betting. States that already have legalized casino gaming may further expand gaming, and other states that have not yet legalized gaming may do so in the future. We also compete with Native American gaming operations in California and other jurisdictions where Native American tribes operate large-scale gaming facilities or otherwise conduct gaming activities on Native American lands, which we expect will continue to expand. Further expansion of legalized casino gaming in jurisdictions in or near our 16 markets or changes to gaming laws in states in which we have operations and in states near our operations could increase competition and could adversely affect our operations. Increased competition may require us to make substantial expenditures in marketing, customer development and capital projects to maintain and enhance the competitive positions of our online and brick and mortar operations to increase the attractiveness and add to the appeal of our facilities and product offerings. Because a significant portion of our cash flow is required to pay obligations under our outstanding indebtedness and our lease obligations, there can be no assurance that we will have sufficient funds to undertake, or that we will be able to obtain sufficient financing to fund, such expenditures. If we are unable to make such expenditures, our competitive position could be negatively affected. Our business is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a result of downturns in the economy and other factors outside our control. Consumer demand for casino hotel and racetrack properties and online betting and gaming is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the associated impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences brought about by factors such as perceived or actual general economic conditions, effects of declines in consumer confidence in the economy, the impact of high energy and food costs, the increased cost of travel, decreased disposable consumer income and wealth, fears of war and future acts of terrorism, or widespread illnesses or epidemics, including COVID-19, can have a material adverse effect on leisure and business travel, discretionary spending and other areas of economic behavior that directly impact the gaming and entertainment industries in general and could further reduce customer demand for the amenities and products that we offer. In addition, increases in gasoline prices, including increases prompted by global political and economic instabilities, can adversely affect our casino operations because most of our patrons travel to our properties by car or on airlines that may pass on increases in fuel costs to passengers in the form of higher ticket prices. Win rates (hold rates) for our casino operations depend on a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and participation in the sports betting industry exposes us to trading, liability management and pricing risks. We may experience lower than expected profitability and potentially significant losses as a result of factors beyond our control or a failure to accurately determine odds. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. Accordingly, we employ theoretical win rates to estimate what a certain type of game, on average, will win or lose in the long run. In addition to the element of chance, win rates (hold percentages) are also affected by the spread of table limits and factors that are beyond our control, such as a player’s skill, experience, and behavior, the mix of games played, the financial resources of players, the volume of bets placed, and the amount of time players spend gambling. As a result of the variability in these factors, the actual win rates at our casinos may differ from the theoretical win rates we have estimated and could result in the winnings of our gaming customers exceeding those anticipated. The variability of win rates (hold rates) also have the potential to negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our fixed-odds betting products involve betting where winnings are paid on the basis of the amounts wagered and the odds quoted. Odds are determined with the objective of providing an average return to the bookmaker over a large number of events. However, there can be significant variation in gross win percentage event-by-event and day-by-day. We have systems and controls that seek to reduce the risk of daily losses occurring on a gross-win basis, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective in reducing our exposure to this risk. As a result we may experience (and we have from time to time experienced) significant losses with respect to individual events or betting outcomes, in particular if large individual bets are placed on an event or betting outcome or series of events or betting outcomes. Any significant losses on a gross-win basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the odds that we offer in our sportsbook operations may occasionally contain an obvious error. Examples of such errors are inverted lines between teams, or odds that are significantly different from the true odds of the outcome in a way that all reasonable persons would agree is an error. If regulatory restrictions do not permit us to void or re-setting odds to correct odds on bets associated with large obvious errors in odds making, we could be subject to covering significant liabilities. We rely on third parties to provide services that are essential to the operation of our online betting and gaming business, including, player account management, geolocation and identity verification, payment processing and sports data. We rely on third parties to provide services that are essential to the operation of our online betting and gaming business, including player account management, geolocation and identity verification systems to ensure we comply with laws and regulations, processing deposits and withdrawals made by our online users and providing information regarding schedules, results, performance and outcomes of sporting events to determine when and how bets are settled. The software, systems and services provided by our third-party providers may not meet our expectations, contain errors or weaknesses, be compromised or 17 experience outages. A failure of such third-party systems to perform effectively, or any service interruption to those systems, could adversely affect our business by preventing users from accessing our online platform, delaying payment or resulting in errors in settling bets, which could give rise to regulatory issues relating to the operation of our business. By way of example, incorrect or misleading geolocation and identity verification data with respect to current or potential users received from third-party service providers may result in us inadvertently allowing access to our offerings to individuals who are not permitted to access them or otherwise inadvertently denying access to individuals who are permitted to access them, and errors or failures by our payment processors and sports data providers could result in a failure in timely and accurately process payments to and from users or errors in settling bets. Any such errors or failures could result in violations of applicable regulatory requirements and adversely affect our reputation and our ability to attract and retain our online users. Furthermore, negative publicity related to any of our third-party partners could adversely affect our reputation and brand, and could potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. In addition, if any of our third-party services providers terminates its relationship with us, is unable to maintain necessary regulatory approvals, or refuses to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, we would have to find alternate service providers. We cannot be certain that we would be able to secure favorable terms from alternative service providers that are critical to the operation of our business or enter into alternative arrangements in a timely manner. Our digital business, results of operations and prospects would be adversely impacted by our inability or delay in securing replacement services that are sufficient to support our online business or are on comparable terms. The growth of our digital business will depend, in part, on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. We rely on relationships with sports leagues and teams, media companies and other third parties in order to attract users to our offerings. In 2019 we entered into an exclusive sports entertainment partnership with the NFL, making us the first ever “Official Casino Sponsor” in the history of the league and in 2020, we partnered with ESPN to integrate their digital platforms with our sportsbooks. These relationships, along with providers of online services, search engines, social media, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses direct consumers to our offerings. While we believe there are other third parties that could drive users to our online offerings, adding or transitioning to them may disrupt our business and increase our costs, and may require us to modify, limit or discontinue certain offerings. Furthermore, sports leagues, teams and venues may enter into exclusive partnerships with our competitors which could adversely affect our ability to offer certain types of wagers. In the event that any of our existing relationships or our future relationships fail to provide services to us in accordance with the terms of our arrangement, or at all, and we are not able to find suitable alternatives, this could impact our ability to cost effectively attract consumers and harm our online betting and gaming business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The growth of our digital business will require investments in our online offerings, technology and strategic marketing initiatives, which could be costly and negatively impact the economics of our online business. The online betting and gaming industry is subject to rapid and frequent changes in standards, technologies, products and service offerings, as well as in customer demands and preferences and regulations, which will require us to continually introduce and successfully implement new and innovative technologies, marketing strategies, product offerings and enhancements to remain competitive and effectively stimulate customer demand, acceptance and engagement. The process of developing new online offerings and systems is inherently complex and uncertain, and new offerings may not be well received by users, even if they are well-reviewed and of high quality. Developing new offerings and marketing strategies can also divert our management’s attention from other business issues and opportunities. New online offerings that attain market acceptance and aggressive marketing strategies implemented in the competitive online market environment could impact the mix of our existing business, including our casino business, or the share of our patron’s wallets in a manner that could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, online betting and gaming operates in a competitive environment that requires significant investment in marketing initiatives, including free play and use of a variety of free and paid marketing channels, including television, radio, social media platforms, such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and other digital channels. We cannot be sure that our investments in technology, products, service offerings and marketing initiatives will be successful or generate the return on investment that we expect. If new or existing competitors offer more attractive offerings or engage in marketing initiatives that are better received by customers, we may lose users or users may decrease their spending on our offerings. Further, new customer demands, superior competitive offerings, new industry standards or changes in the regulatory environment could render our offerings unattractive, unmarketable or obsolete and require us to make substantial unanticipated changes to our technology or business model. Failure to adapt to a rapidly changing market or evolving customer demands, and costs required to be incurred to react to dynamic market conditions, could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 18 We face the risk of fraud, theft, and cheating. We face the risk that gaming customers may attempt or commit fraud or theft or cheat in order to increase winnings. Such acts of fraud, theft, or cheating could involve the use of counterfeit chips or other tactics, possibly in collusion with our employees. Internal acts of cheating could also be conducted by employees through collusion with dealers, surveillance staff, floor managers, or other casino or gaming area staff. Additionally, we also face the risk that customers may attempt or commit fraud or theft with respect to our non-gaming offerings or against other customers. Such risks include stolen credit or charge cards or cash, falsified checks, theft of retail inventory and purchased goods, and unpaid or counterfeit receipts. Failure to discover such acts or schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in our operations. Negative publicity related to such acts or schemes could have an adverse effect on our reputation, potentially causing a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We extend credit to a portion of our customers, and we may not be able to collect gaming receivables from our credit customers. We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. Any such credit we extend is unsecured. High-stakes players typically are extended more credit than customers who tend to wager lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular period. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible. Gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of the jurisdictions in which we allow play on a credit basis, and judgments on gaming debts in such jurisdictions are enforceable in all U.S. states under the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution; however, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. In addition, in November 2017, the Chinese government adopted new rules to control the cross-border transportation of cash and bearer negotiable instruments, specifically to reduce the international transfer of cash in connection with activities that are illegal in China, including gambling. The Chinese government has recently taken steps to prohibit the transfer of cash for the payment of gaming debts. These developments may have the effect of reducing the collectability of gaming debts of players from China. It is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect or become more restrictive in the future. These and any future foreign currency control policy developments that may be implemented by foreign jurisdictions could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of terrorism, war, natural disasters, severe weather, and political, economic and military conditions may impede our ability to operate or may negatively impact our financial results. Terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties. For example, a substantial number of the customers of our properties in Las Vegas use air travel. As a result of terrorist acts that occurred on September 11, 2001, domestic and international travel was severely disrupted, which resulted in a decrease in customer visits to our properties in Las Vegas. Visitation to Las Vegas also declined for a period of time following the mass shooting tragedy on October 1, 2017. We cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, security alerts or war, uprisings, or hostilities in places such as Iraq, Afghanistan, Ukraine, and/or Syria or other countries throughout the world, and governmental responses to those acts or hostilities, will directly or indirectly impact our business and operating results. For example, our operations in Cairo, Egypt, were negatively affected from the uprising there in January 2011. A third party that is responsible for our player account management has employees in Ukraine and negative developments in Ukraine could negatively impact our digital business. As a consequence of the threat of terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility in the future, premiums for a variety of insurance products have increased, and some types of insurance are no longer available. If any such event were to affect our properties, we would likely be adversely affected. In addition, natural and man-made disasters such as major fires, floods, severe snowstorms, hurricanes, earthquakes, and oil spills could also adversely impact our business and operating results. Such events could lead to the loss of use of one or more of our properties for an extended period of time and disrupt our ability to attract customers to certain of our gaming facilities. For example, our property in Lake Charles, Louisiana has been closed since August 27, 2020 due to damage resulting from Hurricane Laura. Inadequate insurance or lack of available insurance for these and other certain types or levels of risk could expose us to significant losses in the event that a catastrophe occurred for which we are underinsured. In most cases, we have insurance that covers portions of any losses from a natural disaster, but it is subject to deductibles and maximum payouts in many cases. Although we may be covered by insurance from a natural disaster, the timing of our receipt of insurance proceeds, 19 if any, may be out of our control. In some cases, however, we may receive no proceeds from insurance. Further, if properties subject to our leases with VICI and GLPI are impacted by a casualty event, such leases require us to repair or restore the affected properties even if the cost of such repair or restoration exceeds the insurance proceeds that we receive. Under such circumstances, the rent under such leases is required to be paid during the period of repair or restoration even if all or a portion of the affected property is not operating. In addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of the casualty event or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or harmed. While we carry general liability insurance and business interruption insurance, there can be no assurance that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all loss and damage to which our business or our assets might be subjected and the timing and receipt of insurance proceeds, if any, may be out of our control. Our business may be subject to fluctuations due to seasonality and other factors that could result in volatility and have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our business may fluctuate due to seasonality and other factors. Our casino business is impacted by weather conditions that may deter or prevent customers from reaching the facilities or undertaking trips, which would particularly affect customers who are traveling longer distances to visit our properties. Our casino business can also fluctuate due to specific holidays or other significant events, such as Easter (particularly when the holiday falls in a different quarter than the prior year), the World Series of Poker tournament (with respect to our Las Vegas properties), city-wide conventions, a large sporting event or a concert, or visits by our premium players. Our sportsbook business may also be impacted by availability or scheduling of major sporting events or the cancellation or postponement of sporting events or races, including lockouts, strikes or similar disruptions. For example, our sports betting business could be adversely impacted if the 2022 Major League Baseball season does not begin on time or does not occur at all. Seasonality, holiday, or other significant events may affect our digital operations, properties or regions differently. These factors, among other things, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results, cause volatility in the trading price of our stock and impact our cash flow from quarter to quarter. Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating results. We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues. We may be indirectly impacted by regulatory requirements aimed at reducing the impacts of climate change directed at up-stream utility providers, as we could experience potentially higher utility, fuel, and transportation costs. Any deterioration in our reputation or the reputation of our brands could adversely impact our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Our business is dependent on the quality and reputation of our Company and brands. Events beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties, including our digital operations, or more generally impact our corporate or brand image. Other factors that could influence our reputation include the quality of the services we offer and our actions with regard to social issues such as diversity, human rights and support for local communities. Broad access to social media makes it easy for anyone to provide public feedback that can influence perceptions of us, our brands or our properties. It may be difficult to control or effectively manage negative publicity, regardless of whether it is accurate. Negative events and publicity could quickly and materially damage perceptions of us, our brands or our properties, which, in turn, could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations through loss of customers, loss of business opportunities, lack of acceptance of our company to operate in host communities, employee retention or recruiting difficulties or other difficulties. Risks Relating to Information Systems and Technology Compromises of our information systems or unauthorized access to confidential information or our customers’ personal information could materially harm our reputation and business. We collect and store confidential, personal information relating to our customers for various business purposes, including marketing and financial purposes, and credit card information for processing payments. For example, we handle, collect and store personal information in connection with our customers staying at our hotels and enrolling in Caesars Rewards. We may share this personal and confidential information with vendors or other third parties in connection with processing of transactions, operating certain aspects of our business, or for marketing purposes. Our collection and use of personal data are governed by state and federal privacy laws and regulations as well as the applicable laws and regulations in other countries in which we operate. Privacy law is subject to frequent changes and varies significantly by jurisdiction. We may incur significant costs in order to ensure compliance with the various applicable privacy requirements. In addition, privacy laws and regulations may limit our ability to market to our customers. 20 We assess and monitor the security of collection, storage, and transmission of customer information on an ongoing basis. We utilize commercially available software and technologies to monitor, assess and secure our network. Further, some of the systems currently used for transmission and approval of payment card transactions and the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the payment card industry, and other such systems are determined and controlled by us. Although we have taken steps designed to safeguard our customers’ confidential personal information and important internal company data, our network and other systems and those of third parties, such as service providers, could be compromised, damaged, or disrupted by a third-party breach of our system security or that of a third-party provider or as a result of purposeful or accidental actions of third parties, our employees, or those employees of a third party, power outages, computer viruses, system failures, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events. Our third-party information system service providers face risks relating to cybersecurity similar to ours, and we do not directly control any of such parties’ information security operations. Advances in computer and software capabilities, encryption technology, new tools, and other developments may increase the risk of a security breach. As a result of any security breach, customer information or other proprietary data may be accessed or transmitted by or to a third party. Despite the measures we have implemented to safeguard our information, there can be no assurance that we are adequately protecting our information. Any loss, disclosure of, misappropriation of, or access to customers’ or other proprietary information or other breach of our information security could result in legal claims or legal proceedings, including regulatory investigations and actions, or liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, including for failure to protect personal information or for misusing personal information, which could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees, and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. We have cybersecurity insurance to respond to a breach which is designed to cover expenses around notification, credit monitoring, investigation, crisis management, public relations and legal advice. We also carry other insurance which may cover ancillary aspects of the event; however, damage and claims arising from a breach may not be completely covered or may exceed the amount of any insurance available. Our operations, and particularly our digital betting and gaming operations, are reliant on information technology and other systems and services, and any failures, errors, defects or disruptions in our systems or services could adversely affect our operations. Our technology infrastructure is critical to the performance of our digital betting and gaming operations and to user satisfaction and we rely significantly on our computer systems and software to receive and properly process internal and external data, including data related to Caesars Rewards. We devote significant resources to our technology infrastructure, but our systems may not be adequate to avoid performance delays or outages that could be harmful to our online business. In addition, we cannot assure you that the measures we take to prevent cyber-attacks and protect our systems, data and user information and to prevent outages, data or information loss, fraud and to prevent or detect security breaches will be sufficient to ensure uninterrupted operation of our digital platform and provide absolute security. We have experienced, and we may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors and capacity constraints. Disruptions from unauthorized access to, fraudulent manipulation of, or tampering with our computer systems and technological infrastructure, or those of third parties that provide support to our operations, could result in a wide range of negative outcomes, each of which could materially adversely affect the operation of our online business and our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, our computer systems and software may fail or may contain errors, bugs, flaws or corrupted data, and these defects may only become apparent after the launch of our online products. These types of issues could disrupt our operations or render a product unavailable when users attempt to access it or cause access to our offerings to be slower than our users expect. Inaccessibility or slow access to our products could make users less likely to return to our digital platform as often, if at all, or to recommend our offerings to other potential users, which could harm our brand perception, cause our users to stop utilizing our online offerings, divert our resources and delay market acceptance of our online offerings. We expect that we will continue to expand our online betting and gaming offerings as our user base grows and we enter into new markets, which will require an enhancement of our technical infrastructure, including network capacity and computing power, to support the growth of our digital business and to satisfy our users’ needs. Such infrastructure expansion may be complex and costly, and unanticipated delays in completing these projects or availability of components may lead to increased project costs, operational inefficiencies, or interruptions in the delivery or degradation of the quality of our offerings. In addition, there may be issues related to our online infrastructure that are not identified during the testing phases of design and implementation and become evident after we have started to fully use the underlying equipment or software, which could impact the user experience or increase our costs. An inability to effectively scale our technical infrastructure to accommodate increased demands could adversely impact our ability to grow our digital betting and gaming business. 21 Our online business is dependent on the Internet and we rely on Amazon Web Services and other third-party technology, platforms and services to deliver our offerings to users. A substantial portion of the infrastructure that is required to enable users to access our digital betting and gaming offerings is provided by third parties, including Internet service providers and other technology-based service providers. In particular, we currently host our online betting and gaming offerings and support our operations using Amazon Web Services (“AWS”) and other third-party technology, platforms and services. Our third-party providers may experience service interruptions, delays, outages or damage, including due to capacity constraints, an event causing an unusually high volume of Internet use (such as a pandemic or public health emergency), infrastructure changes or upgrades (such as 5G or 6G services), human or software errors, website hosting disruptions, natural disasters, cybersecurity attacks, terrorist attacks, power outages and similar events or acts of misconduct. We exercise little control over our third-party providers and any difficulties that these providers experience, including the potential of certain network traffic receiving priority over other traffic (i.e., lack of net neutrality), may adversely affect our business. Because our ability to provide our users with continuing and uninterrupted access to our platform is critical to the success of our digital business, we use our best efforts to ensure that our facilities and infrastructure and the facilities and infrastructure of our third-party providers support our current and expected operations and are designed to mitigate the impacts of system malfunctions. Nevertheless, there can be no guarantee that such systems will be able to meet the demand of our current and future digital business, the overall online betting and gaming industry and the growth of the Internet. Furthermore, if we do not maintain business relationships with our third-party providers, and in particular, AWS, we may not be able to secure required third-party services on terms that are acceptable to us or on an acceptable time frame. Any of these risks could result in a loss of revenue and cause us to incur unexpected costs that could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our online business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our online business model depends upon the continued compatibility between our apps and the major mobile operating systems and upon third-party platforms for the distribution of our product offerings, which depend on factors beyond our control such as the design of third-party operating systems and continued access to our apps on third-party distribution platforms like the Apple App Store. Our digital business is dependent on the interoperability of our technology with popular mobile operating systems, technologies, networks and standards as our users access our online betting and gaming product offerings primarily on mobile devices. As a result, our business model depends upon the continued compatibility between our app and the major mobile operating systems, such as the Android and iOS operating systems, and we rely upon third-party platforms for distribution of our product offerings. We do not have formal or informal relationships with parties that control design of mobile devices and operating systems and there is no guarantee that popular mobile devices will start or continue to support or feature our product offerings. Any changes, bugs, technical or regulatory issues in such operating systems, our relationships with mobile manufacturers and carriers, or in their terms of service or policies that degrade our offerings’ functionality, reduce or eliminate our ability to distribute our offerings, give preferential treatment to competitive products, limit our ability to deliver high quality offerings, or impose fees or other charges related to delivering our offerings, could adversely affect our product usage and monetization on mobile devices. In addition, if any of the third-party platforms used for distribution of our product offerings were to limit or disable the availability of our app or advertising on their platforms, our ability to generate revenue could be harmed. These changes could materially impact the way we do business, and if we are unable to adjust to those changes quickly and effectively, there could be an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to Human Capital We rely on our key personnel and we may face difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified employees for our casinos and race tracks. Our future success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to keep our senior executives and highly qualified employees. The operation of our business requires, qualified executives, managers and skilled employees with gaming and horse racing industry experience and qualifications who are able to obtain the requisite licenses and approval from the applicable gaming authorities. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not succeed in hiring or retaining the executives and other employees that we need. A sudden loss of or inability to replace key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, there has from time to time been a shortage of skilled labor in our markets and the continued expansion of gaming near our facilities, including the expansion of Native American gaming and internet betting and gaming, may make it more difficult for us to attract qualified candidates. While we believe that we will continue to be able to attract and retain qualified employees, shortages of skilled labor will make it increasingly difficult and expensive to attract and retain the services of a satisfactory number of qualified employees, and we may incur higher costs than expected as a result. 22 Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively impact our future profits. As of December 31, 2021, we had collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 23,000 employees. A lengthy strike or other work stoppages at any of our casino properties could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. From time to time, we have also experienced attempts by labor organizations to organize certain of our non-union employees. These efforts have achieved some success to date. We cannot provide any assurance that we will not experience additional and successful union activity in the future. The impact of this union activity is undetermined and could negatively impact our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our performers and other entertainment offerings on acceptable terms or at all. Historically, our performers have drawn customers to our properties and have been a significant source of our revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our performers or other shows on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the third parties that we depend on for our properties’ entertainment offerings may become incapable or unwilling to provide their services at the level agreed upon or at all. Disruptions in the performance schedule can leave us without entertainment offerings, which could negatively impact our business. Risks Relating to Our Capital Structure Our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a significant portion of our cash flow is used to make interest payments and rent payments under our debt and lease agreements could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from making debt service payments and rent payments. As of December 31, 2021 we had $14.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness, in addition to leases with VICI and GLPI that require an annual rent payment of $1.2 billion in 2022 and that are subject to annual escalation. See Note 10 for a description of our obligations under our leases with VICI and GLPI and Note 12 for details regarding our debt outstanding and related restrictive covenants. As a result, a significant portion of our cash flow is applied to make interest payments with respect to our outstanding debt and payments under our leases. These financial obligations may have important negative consequences for us, including: • limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a significant portion of these funds to make payments on our debt and lease obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with debt and rent obligations that are less than ours; • increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our ability to react to, changing market conditions, COVID-19 and other public health emergencies, changes in our industry and economic downturns; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt service, acquisitions, general corporate or other obligations; • subjecting us to a number of restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to make capital expenditures and limit our ability to pay dividends and distributions, make acquisitions and dispositions, borrow additional funds and make other investments; • exposing us to interest rate risk due to the variable interest rate on borrowings under our credit facilities; and • affecting our ability to renew gaming and other licenses necessary to conduct our business. Certain of our debt facilities, including the CRC Revolving Credit Facility, mature in 2022. While we expect to refinance or replace our debt facilities when they mature, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still incur significant additional indebtedness. Incurring more indebtedness could increase the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness, and may enter into financing obligations similar to our leases with VICI and GLPI in the future. As of December 31, 2021, we had $2.0 billion of borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities, before consideration of $23 million in outstanding letters of credit and $48 million committed for regulatory purposes under our CEI Revolving Credit Facility and $69 million in outstanding letters of credit under our CRC Revolving Credit Facility. Further, our existing debt agreements currently permit, 23 and we expect that agreements governing debt that we incur in the future will permit, us to incur certain other additional secured and unsecured debt. Further, we may incur other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness. The risks that we face based on our outstanding indebtedness may intensify if we incur additional indebtedness or financing obligations in the future. Our variable rate indebtedness exposes us to interest rate volatility, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under certain of our facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate volatility. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on certain of our variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same. In addition, at the end of 2021, the administrator for London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) ceased publishing one-week and two-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and will cease publishing all remaining U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors in mid-2023. Concurrently, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority announced the cessation or loss of representativeness of the U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors from those dates. While we continue to monitor market developments to assess replacement rate options, the consequences of these developments with respect to LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted and may result in the level of interest payments on the portion of our indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates to be affected, which may adversely impact the amount of our interest payments under such debt. A significant portion of our casinos are located on leased property. If we default on one or more leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected casino. We currently lease certain parcels of land on which a significant portion of our properties are located. As a ground lessee, we have the right to use the leased land; however, we do not hold fee ownership of the underlying land. Accordingly, we have no interest in the leased land or improvements thereon at the expiration of the ground leases. If our use of the land underlying our casino properties is disrupted permanently or for a significant period of time, then the value of our assets could be impaired and our business and operations could be adversely affected. Our leases provide that they may be terminated for a number of reasons, including failure to pay rent, taxes or other payment obligations or the breach of other covenants contained in the leases. In particular, our leases with GLPI and VICI require annual rent payments of $1.2 billion in 2022, which is subject to escalation annually, and obligate us to make specified minimum capital expenditures with respect to the leased properties. If our business and properties fail to generate sufficient earnings, the payments required to service the rent obligations under our leases with GLPI and VICI could materially and adversely limit our ability to react to changes in our business and make acquisitions and investments in our properties. If we were to default on any one or more of these leases, the applicable lessors could terminate the affected leases and we could lose possession of the affected land and any improvements on the land, including the hotels and casinos. A termination of our ground leases or our leases with GLPI or VICI could result in a default under our debt agreements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, in the event that any lessor of our leased properties, including GLPI or VICI, encounters financial, operational, regulatory or other challenges, there can be no assurance that such lessor will be able to comply with its obligations under the applicable lease. Certain of our leases, including our leases with GLPI and VICI, are “triple-net” leases. Accordingly, in addition to rent, we are required to pay, among other things, the following: (1) lease payments to the underlying ground lessor for properties that are subject to ground leases; (2) facility maintenance costs; (3) all insurance premiums for insurance with respect to the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties; (4) taxes levied on or with respect to the leased properties (other than taxes on the income of the lessor); and (5) all utilities and other services necessary or appropriate for the leased properties and the business conducted on the leased properties. We are responsible for incurring the costs described in the preceding sentence notwithstanding the fact that many of the benefits received in exchange for such costs shall in part accrue to the lessor as the owner of the associated facilities. In addition, we remain obligated for lease payments and other obligations under our leases with GLPI and VICI and other ground leases even if one or more of such leased facilities is unprofitable or if we decide to withdraw from those locations. We could incur special charges relating to the closing of such facilities including lease termination costs, impairment charges and other special charges that would reduce our net income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive governmental regulation, taxation policies and licensing, and gaming authorities have significant control over our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Licensing Requirements . The ownership and operation of casino gaming, online betting and gaming, riverboat and horse racing facilities are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation, and regulatory authorities at local, state and national levels have broad powers with respect to the licensing of gaming businesses. We currently hold all state and local licenses and related approvals necessary to conduct our present gaming operations, but we must periodically apply to renew many of our licenses and registrations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such renewals. Any failure to maintain or renew our 24 existing licenses, registrations, permits or approvals would have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, we are required to provide information relating to our operations to various gaming regulatory agencies. A failure to provide accurate information could result in the imposition of fines or other penalties by the relevant regulatory authority. Furthermore, if additional laws or regulations are adopted or existing laws or regulations are amended or interpreted differently, these regulations could impose additional restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. Gaming authorities with jurisdiction over our operations may, in their discretion, require the holder of any securities issued by us to file applications, be investigated, and be found suitable to own our securities, and, if a holder is found unsuitable, we can be sanctioned, including the loss of approvals that are required for us to continue our gaming operations in the relevant jurisdictions, if such unsuitable person does not timely sell our securities. Our officers, directors and key employees are also subject to similar findings of unsuitability and the gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. See “Item 1 - Gaming Licenses and Governmental Regulations” and Exhibit 99.1 for further description of the regulations to which we are subject. We may be required under applicable gaming laws and regulations to obtain approval of applicable gaming authorities to issue securities, incur debt and undertake other financing activities and our financing counterparties, including lenders, might be subject to various licensing and related approval procedures in the various jurisdictions in which we operate gaming facilities. Compliance with Other Laws . We are also subject to a variety of other federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses, including restrictions enacted in response to COVD-19, zoning, environmental, construction and land-use laws and regulations governing smoking and the serving of alcoholic beverages. Our operations have been adversely impacted by regulations enacted to limit the spread of COVID-19. In addition, legislation in various forms to ban indoor tobacco smoking has been enacted or introduced in many states and local jurisdictions, including several of the jurisdictions in which we operate. If additional restrictions are enacted in our jurisdictions, we could experience a significant decrease in gaming revenue and operating results at our properties and, particularly if such restrictions are not applicable to all competitive facilities in that gaming market, our business could be materially adversely affected. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any additional limitations on our operations would be expected to negatively impact our financial performance. Regulations adopted by FINCEN require us to report currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day. U.S. Treasury Department regulations also require us to report certain suspicious activity, including any transaction that exceeds $5,000, if we know, suspect or have reason to believe that the transaction involves funds from illegal activity or is designed to evade federal regulations or reporting requirements. Substantial penalties can be imposed if we fail to comply with these regulations. FINCEN has recently increased its focus on gaming companies. We are required to report certain customer’s gambling winnings via form W-2G to comply with current Internal Revenue Service regulations. Should these regulations change, we would expect to incur additional costs to comply with the revised reporting requirements. Taxation and Fees . In addition, gaming companies are generally subject to significant revenue-based taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied, affecting the gaming industry. The large number of state and local governments with significant current or projected budget deficits makes it more likely that those governments that currently permit gaming will seek to fund such deficits with new or increased gaming taxes and/or property taxes and worsening economic conditions could intensify those efforts. Any material increase, or the adoption of additional taxes or fees, could have a material adverse effect on our future financial results. The growth of our online betting and gaming business will depend on expansion of online betting and gaming into new jurisdictions and our ability to obtain required licenses. Our ability to achieve growth in our online betting and gaming business will depend, in large part, upon expansion of online betting and gaming into new jurisdictions, the terms of regulations relating to online betting and gaming and our ability to obtain required licenses. Following the 2018 decision of the U.S. Supreme Court to overturn the federal ban on sports betting, a number of jurisdictions have legalized sports betting and online gaming and we expect that additional jurisdictions may do so in the future. Our ability to further expand our sports betting and online operations is dependent on the adoption of regulations permitting such activities. However, the expansion of betting and online gaming in new jurisdictions is dependent on a number of factors that are beyond our control and there can be no assurances of when, or if, such regulations will be adopted or the terms of such regulations, including restrictions, tax rates and license fees and availability of such licenses to casino owners exclusively or at all. 25 We may not be able to protect the intellectual property rights we own or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business. The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. We rely primarily on trade secret, trademark, domain name, copyright, and contract law to protect the intellectual property and proprietary technology we own. We also actively pursue business opportunities in the United States and in international jurisdictions involving the licensing of our trademarks to third parties. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property or proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. For example, while we have a policy of entering into confidentiality, intellectual property invention assignment, and/or non-competition and non-solicitation agreements or restrictions with our employees, independent contractors, and business partners, such agreements may not provide adequate protection or may be breached, or our proprietary technology may otherwise become available to or be independently developed by our competitors. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights or intellectual property to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, the unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our trademarks and our market acceptance, competitive advantages, or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. Our technology contains software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under “open source” licenses. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide support, warranties, indemnification or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. In addition, the public availability of such software may make it easier for others to compromise our technology and, under certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar offerings with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of our competitive advantages. Third parties have alleged and may in the future allege that we are infringing, misappropriating, or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. Third parties may initiate litigation against us without warning or may send us letters or other communications that make allegations without initiating litigation. We may elect not to respond to these letters or other communications if we believe they are without merit, or we may attempt to resolve these disputes out of court by negotiating a license, but in either case it is possible that such disputes will ultimately result in litigation. Any such claims could interfere with our ability to use technology or intellectual property that is material to the operation of our business. Such claims may be made by competitors seeking to obtain a competitive advantage or by other parties, such as entities that purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of bringing infringement claims. We also periodically employ individuals who were previously employed by our competitors or potential competitors, and we may therefore be subject to claims that such employees have used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. We may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity, including with respect to technology that we believe to be “open source”. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management. If unsuccessful, such litigation could result in the loss of important intellectual property rights, require us to pay substantial damages, subject us to injunctions that prevent us from using certain intellectual property, require us to make admissions that affect our reputation in the marketplace, or require us to enter into license agreements that may not be available on favorable terms, re-engineer our technology or discontinue or delay the provision of our offerings. Finally, even if we prevail in any litigation, the remedy may not be commercially meaningful or fully compensate us for the harm we suffer or the costs we incur. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on licenses to use the intellectual property rights of third parties which are incorporated into our products and services. Failure to renew or expand existing licenses may require us to modify, limit or discontinue certain offerings. We rely on products, technologies and intellectual property that we license from third parties, for use in our business-to-business and business-to-consumers offerings. Certain of our offerings and services use intellectual property licensed from third parties and we expect that our future products will require the use of third-party intellectual property. The future success of our business may depend, in part, on our ability to obtain, retain and/or expand licenses for popular technologies and games in a competitive market. We cannot assure that third-party licenses that may be necessary or desirable for the operation of our products, or support for such licensed products and technologies, will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we are unable to renew and/or expand existing licenses or obtain new licenses, including as a result of reluctance of third parties to subject themselves to regulatory review that may be required to operate as our supplier, we may be required to discontinue or limit our use of the products that include or incorporate the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and prospects. 26 We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could impact our business and financial condition. From time to time, we are named in lawsuits or other legal proceedings relating to our respective businesses. Some of these matters involve commercial or contractual disputes, intellectual property claims, legal compliance, personal injury claims, and employment claims. As with all legal proceedings, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of these matters. Moreover, legal proceedings can be expensive and time consuming, and we may not be successful in defending or prosecuting these lawsuits, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be sure that we will be able to dispose of the William Hill non-US operations on terms and conditions that are satisfactory to us or at all. We previously announced that on September 9, 2021 we entered into an agreement to sell the William Hill International operations to 888 Holdings Plc (“888”) and that we intend to apply the proceeds of such sale to repay outstanding indebtedness. The transaction remains subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, most notably 888’s publication of a prospectus and shareholder circular recommending shareholder approval of the transaction, and receipt of that approval from 888’s shareholders. There can be no assurance that the transaction will be completed on the previously agreed upon terms and timeline, or that we will be able to consummate a sale of William Hill International in the near future or at all. If we do not expect the closing of the sale of William Hill International by October 14, 2022, the date in which the Bridge Credit Agreement matures, we expect to refinance the outstanding indebtedness under the Bridge Credit Agreement. We cannot guarantee the success of such refinancing.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the audited consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto and other financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Caesars Entertainment, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is referred to as the “Company,” “CEI,” “Caesars,” or the “Registrant,” and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” 31 We also refer to (i) our Consolidated Financial Statements as our “Financial Statements,” (ii) our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) as our “Statements of Operations,” (iii) our Consolidated Balance Sheets as our “Balance Sheets,” and (iv) our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as our “Statements of Cash Flows.” References to numbered “Notes” refer to Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. The statements in this discussion regarding our expectations of our future performance, liquidity and capital resources, and other non-historical statements are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors—CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS,” of this report. Objective This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is intended to be a narrative explanation of the financial statements and other statistical data that should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements to enhance an investor’s understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. Our objectives are: (i) to provide a narrative explanation of our financial statements that will enable investors to see the Company through the eyes of management; (ii) to enhance the overall financial disclosure and provide the context within which financial information should be analyzed; and (iii) to provide information about the quality of, and potential variability of, our earnings and cash flows so that investors can ascertain the likelihood that past performance is indicative of future performance. Overview We are a geographically diversified gaming and hospitality company that was founded in 1973 by the Carano family with the opening of the Eldorado Hotel Casino in Reno, Nevada. Beginning in 2005, we grew through a series of acquisitions, including the acquisition of MTR Gaming Group, Inc. in 2014, Isle of Capri Casinos, Inc. (“Isle” or “Isle of Capri”) in 2017 and Tropicana Entertainment, Inc. in 2018. On July 20, 2020, we completed the merger with Caesars Entertainment Corporation (“Former Caesars”) pursuant to which Former Caesars became our wholly-owned subsidiary (the “Merger”) and our ticker symbol on the NASDAQ Stock Market changed from “ERI” to “CZR”. On April 22, 2021, we completed the acquisition of William Hill PLC for £2.9 billion , or approximately $3.9 billion (the “William Hill Acquisition”). We currently own, lease or manage an aggregate of 52 domestic properties in 16 states with approximately 55,700 slot machines, video lottery terminals and e-tables, approximately 2,900 table games and approximately 47,700 hotel rooms as of December 31, 2021. In addition, we have other domestic and international properties that are authorized to use the brands and marks of Caesars Entertainment, Inc., as well as other non-gaming properties. Our primary source of revenue is generated by our casino properties’ gaming operations, retail and online sports betting as well as online gaming, and we utilize hotels, restaurants, bars, entertainment, racing, retail shops and other services to attract customers to our properties. As of December 31, 2021, we owned 20 of our casinos and leased 26 casinos in the U.S. We lease 18 casinos from VICI Properties L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (“VICI”) pursuant to a regional lease, a Las Vegas lease and a Joliet lease. In addition, we lease seven casinos from GLP Capital, L.P., the operating partnership of Gaming and Leisure Properties, Inc. (“GLPI”) pursuant to a Master Lease (as amended, the “GLPI Master Lease”) and a Lumière lease (together with the GLPI Master Lease, the “GLPI Leases”). Additionally, we lease the Rio All-Suite Hotel & Casino from a separate third party. See descriptions under the “GLPI Leases” and “VICI Leases.” 32 We also operate and conduct sports wagering across 21 states and domestic jurisdictions, 14 of which are mobile for sports betting, and operate regulated online real money gaming in five states. Our recently launched Caesars Sportsbook app operates on the Liberty platform, which we acquired in the William Hill Acquisition along with other technology platforms that we intend to migrate to the Liberty platform in the future, subject to required approvals. The map below illustrates Caesars Digital’s presence as of December 31, 2021: Subsequent to December 31, 2021, we launched mobile sports betting on our Liberty platform in New York on January 8, 2022 and Louisiana on January 28, 2022 and went live with retail sports betting in Washington on February 10, 2022. We are also in the process of expanding our Caesars Digital footprint into other states in the near term. 33 We periodically divest of assets in order to raise capital or as a result of a determination that the assets are not core to our business. We also divested certain assets in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals related to closing of the Merger. A summary of recently completed and planned divestitures of our properties as of December 31, 2021 is as follows: ____________________ * Not meaningful. (a) Mountaineer, Cape Girardeau and Caruthersville were sold for aggregate consideration of $385 million. (b) Kansas City and Vicksburg were sold for aggregate consideration of $230 million. (c) The proceeds of this sale were split between the Company and VICI. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 4 for further discussion on these key transactions and any applicable gain (loss) or impairment charges recorded. Merger and Acquisitions Related Activities Acquisition of William Hill On September 30, 2020, we announced that we had reached an agreement with William Hill PLC on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition pursuant to which we would acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital (other than shares owned by us or held in treasury) of William Hill PLC, in an all-cash transaction. On April 22, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition for £2.9 billion , or approximately $3.9 billion . In connection with the William Hill Acquisition, on April 22, 2021, a newly formed subsidiary of the Company entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Bridge Credit Agreement”) with certain lenders party thereto and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, pursuant to which the lenders party thereto provided the Debt Financing (as defined below). The Bridge Credit Agreement provides for (a) a 540-day £1.0 billion asset sale bridge facility, (b) a 60-day £503 million cash confirmation bridge facility and (c) a 540-day £116 million revolving credit facility (collectively, the “Debt Financing”). The proceeds of the bridge loan facilities provided under the Bridge Credit Agreement were used (i) to pay a portion of the cash consideration for the acquisition and (ii) to pay fees and expenses related to the acquisition and related transactions. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility under the Bridge Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. The £1.5 billion Interim Facilities Agreement (“Interim Facilities Agreement”) entered into on October 6, 2020 with Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and amended on December 11, 2020, was terminated upon the execution of the Bridge Credit Agreement. On May 12, 2021, the Company repaid the £503 million cash confirmation bridge facility. On June 14, 2021, the Company drew down the full £116 million from the revolving credit facility and the proceeds, in addition to excess Company cash, were used to make a partial repayment of the asset sale bridge facility in the amount of £700 million. Outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Credit Agreement are expected to be repaid upon the sale of William Hill’s non-U.S. operations including the UK and international online divisions and the retail betting shops (collectively, “William Hill International”), all of which are held for sale and reflected within 34 discontinued operations. Certain investments acquired will be excluded from the held for sale group. On September 8, 2021, we entered into an agreement to sell William Hill International to 888 Holdings Plc for approximately £2.2 billion. After repayment of the outstanding debt under the Bridge Credit Agreement, described above, and other working capital adjustments, the Company expects to receive approximately £835 million, or $1.2 billion, subject to any permitted leakage, which is customary for sale transactions in the UK. The sale is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of the approval of shareholders of 888 Holdings Plc and regulatory approvals, and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2022. We recognized acquisition-related transaction costs of $68 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, excluding additional transaction cost associated with sale of William Hill International. These costs were associated with legal and professional services and were recorded in Transaction costs and other operating costs in our Statements of Operations. Consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore On August 26, 2021, we increased our ownership interest in CBAC Borrower, LLC (“Horseshoe Baltimore”), a property which we also managed, to approximately 75.8% for cash consideration of $55 million. We were subsequently determined to have a controlling financial interest in Horseshoe Baltimore and have consolidated the results of operations of the property following our change in ownership. As a result of the increase in our ownership interest, our previously held investment was remeasured and we recognized a gain of $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Management fees received prior to the consolidation event have been presented within our Managed and Branded segment. Operations following the consolidation event are presented within our Regional segment. Merger with Caesars Entertainment Corporation On July 20, 2020, the Merger was consummated and Former Caesars became a wholly-owned subsidiary of ours. The strategic rationale for the Merger includes, but is not limited to, the following: • Creation of the largest owner, operator and manager of domestic gaming assets • Diversification of the Company’s domestic footprint • Access to iconic brands, rewards programs and new gaming opportunities expected to enhance customer experience • Realization of significant identified synergies The total purchase consideration for Former Caesars was $10.9 billion. The estimated purchase consideration in the acquisition was determined with reference to its acquisition date fair value. We recognized acquisition-related transaction costs in connection with the Merger of $30 million, $160 million and $80 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Investments and Partnerships NeoGames The acquired net assets of William Hill included an investment in NeoGames S.A. (“NeoGames”), a global leader of iLottery solutions and services to national and state-regulated lotteries, and other investments. On September 16, 2021, the Company sold a portion of its shares of NeoGames common stock for $136 million which decreased its ownership interest from 24.5% to approximately 8.4%. As of December 31, 2021, the Company held approximately 2 million shares of NeoGames common stock with a fair value of $60 million. The shares have a readily determinable fair value and, accordingly, the Company remeasures the investment based on the publicly available share price (Level 1). For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded a loss to the investment in NeoGames of $54 million, which is included within Other income (loss) on the Statements of Operations. The Stars Group/Flutter Entertainment In November 2018, the Company entered into a 20-year agreement with The Stars Group Inc. (“TSG”) pursuant to which we agreed to provide TSG with options to obtain access to our second skin for online sports wagering and third skin for real money online gaming and poker, in each case with respect to states in which our properties are located. Under the terms of the agreement, we received 1 million TSG common shares. The fair value of the shares received was deferred and was recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the 20-year agreement term. In addition, we received a revenue share from the operation of the applicable verticals by TSG under our licenses. In December 2020, the Company sold a portion of these Flutter shares for net proceeds of $24 million. 35 On July 7, 2021, the Company sold all remaining Flutter shares for $9 million. The Company recorded a loss of $1 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, which is included within Other income (loss) on our Statements of Operations. Pompano Joint Venture In April 2018, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cordish Companies (“Cordish”) to plan and develop a mixed-use entertainment and hospitality destination expected to be located on unused land adjacent to the casino and racetrack at the Company’s Pompano property. As the managing member, Cordish will operate the business and manage the development, construction, financing, marketing, leasing, maintenance and day-to-day operation of the various phases of the project. Additionally, Cordish will be responsible for the development of the master plan for the project with the Company’s input and will submit it for the Company’s review and approval. In June 2021, the joint venture issued a capital call and we contributed $3 million, for a total of $4 million in cash since the inception of the joint venture. On February 12, 2021, the Company contributed 186 acres to the joint venture with a fair value of $61 million. Total contributions of approximately 206 acres of land have been made with a fair value of approximately $69 million, and the Company has no further obligation to contribute additional real estate or cash as of December 31, 2021. We entered into a short-term lease agreement in February 2021, which we can cancel at any time, to lease back a portion of the land from the joint venture. While the Company holds a 50% variable interest in the joint venture, it is not the primary beneficiary; as such the investment in the joint venture is accounted for using the equity method. The Company participates evenly with Cordish in the profits and losses of the joint venture, which are included in Transaction costs and other operating costs on the Statements of Operations. As of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, the Company’s investment in the joint venture is recorded in Investment in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates on the Balance Sheets. Reportable Segments Segment results in this MD&A are presented consistent with the way our management reviews operating results, assesses performance and makes decisions on a “significant market” basis. Management views each of the Company’s casinos as an operating segment. Operating segments are aggregated based on their similar economic characteristics, types of customers, types of services and products provided, and their management and reporting structure. Prior to the William Hill Acquisition, our principal operating activities occurred in three regionally-focused reportable segments: Las Vegas, Regional, and Managed, International, CIE, in addition to Corporate and Other. The William Hill Acquisition and rebranding of our interactive business (formerly, Caesars Interactive Entertainment “CIE” and now, inclusive of William Hill US, “Caesars Digital”) expanded our access to conduct sports wagering and iGaming gaming operations. As a result, the Company has made a change to the composition of its reportable segments. The Las Vegas and Regional segments are substantially unchanged, while the former Managed, International and CIE reportable segment has been recast for all periods presented into two segments; Caesars Digital and Managed and Branded. Accordingly, our principal operating activities occur in four reportable segments: (1) Las Vegas, (2) Regional, (3) Caesars Digital, and (4) Managed and Branded, in addition to Corporate and Other. See Item 2. “Properties” for listing of properties by segment. Presentation of Financial Information The financial information included in this Item 7 for the periods after our acquisitions of Former Caesars on July 20, 2020, William Hill on April 22, 2021 and of the increase in our ownership percentage and subsequent consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore on August 26, 2021, is not fully comparable to the periods prior to the acquisitions. In addition, the presentation of financial information herein for the periods after the Company’s sales of various properties is not fully comparable to the periods prior to their respective sale dates. Refer to “Reportable Segments” above for a discussion of changes to the Company’s reportable segments. This MD&A is intended to provide information to assist in better understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future results of operations because of the factors described in the preceding paragraph and the changing competitive landscape in each of our markets, including changes in market and societal trends, as well as by factors discussed elsewhere herein. We recommend that you read this MD&A in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reclassifications Certain reclassifications of prior year presentations have been made to conform to the current period presentation. In June 2021, the Indiana Gaming Commission amended its order that previously required the Company to sell a third casino asset in the state of Indiana. As a result, Horseshoe Hammond no longer meets the held for sale criteria. The assets and liabilities previously held 36 for sale have been reclassified as held and used for all periods presented measured at the lower of the carrying amount, adjusted for depreciation and amortization that would have been recognized had the assets been continuously classified as held and used, and the fair value at the date of the amended ruling. Additionally, amounts previously presented in discontinued operations have been reclassified into continuing operations for all periods presented. Key Performance Metrics Our primary source of revenue is generated by our gaming operations, retail and online sports betting, as well as online gaming. Additionally we utilize our hotels, restaurants, bars, entertainment venues, retail shops, racing and other services to attract customers to our properties. Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume and quality of customers visiting and staying at our properties and using our sports betting and iGaming applications. Key performance metrics include volume indicators such as drop or handle, which refer to amounts wagered by our customers. The amount of volume we retain, which is not fully controllable by us, is recognized as casino revenues and is referred to as our win or hold. Slot win percentage is typically in the range of approximately 9% to 11% of slot handle for both the Las Vegas and Regional segments. Table game hold percentage is typically in the range of approximately 14% to 23% of table game drop in the Las Vegas segment and 18% to 21% of table game drop in the Regional segment. Sports betting hold is typically in the range of 5% to 9% and iGaming hold typically ranges from 3% to 4%. In addition, hotel occupancy, which is the average percentage of available hotel rooms occupied during a period, is a key indicator for our hotel business in the Las Vegas segment. See “Results of Operations” section below. Complimentary rooms are treated as occupied rooms in our calculation of hotel occupancy. The key metrics we utilize to measure our profitability and performance are Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin. Significant Factors Impacting Financial Results The following summary highlights the significant factors impacting our financial results during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. Acquisitions and Transaction Costs • Acquisition of William Hill – On April 22, 2021, the Company consummated its previously announced acquisition of the entire issued and to be issued share capital (other than shares owned by the Company or held in treasury) of William Hill PLC, in an all-cash transaction of £2.9 billion , or approximately $3.9 billion. We recognized acquisition-related transaction costs of $68 million and $8 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, excluding additional transaction costs associated with sale of William Hill International. • Consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore – On August 26, 2021, the Company increased its ownership interest in Horseshoe Baltimore to approximately 75.8%. Prior to the purchase, the Company held an interest in Horseshoe Baltimore of approximately 44.3% which was accounted for as an equity method investment. Subsequent to the change in ownership, the Company was determined to have a controlling financial interest and has begun to consolidate the operations of Horseshoe Baltimore. As a result of the consolidation, the Company recognized a gain of $40 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. • Merger with Caesars Entertainment Corporation – The Merger closed on July 20, 2020. The Company recognized acquisition-related transaction costs in connection with the Merger of $30 million, $160 million and $80 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Divestitures and Discontinued Operations • Divestitures and Discontinued Operations – See “Overview” section above for detail on properties divested or held for sale, including related discontinued operations. Financing and Lease Transactions • Debt Transactions – In connection with the Merger, we issued new notes, entered into a new credit agreement and assumed certain of Former Caesars indebtedness. In addition, we terminated previously outstanding credit agreements and discharged outstanding notes. During 2021, we issued $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due 2029, we repriced the Incremental CRC Term Loan, we fully converted the outstanding the 5% Convertible Notes, we purchased or redeemed the entire $1.7 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding CRC Notes of, and we purchased $100 million in aggregate principal amount of CEI Senior Notes. As a result of these transactions, described more fully in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below, we experienced some interest savings subsequent to these transactions. Additionally, we recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $236 million and 37 $197 million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which is recorded within Loss on extinguishment of debt on the Statement of Operations. • VICI Leases – Upon consummation of the Merger, CEI assumed obligations of certain real property assets leased from VICI by Former Caesars under various lease agreements. We recorded interest expense of $1.1 billion and $519 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, which was in excess of the cash lease payments as we continue to accrete up the liability during the earlier periods of the VICI Leases. Our VICI Leases also contain annual escalators based on the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”), with a floor of 2%. • GLPI Leases – We have accounted for the GLPI Leases as deferred financing obligations. We recorded interest expense in the amount of $111 million, $104 million and $99 million during the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which was in excess of the cash lease payments as we continue to accrete up the liability during the earlier periods of the GLPI Leases. Our GLPI Leases also contain an annual escalation provision based on stated rates ranging from 1.25% to 2.0% per year. Other Significant Factors • COVID-19 Public Health Emergency – In January 2020, an outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) was identified and has since spread throughout much of the world, including the U.S. All of our casino properties were temporarily closed for the period from mid-March 2020 through mid-May 2020 due to orders issued by various government agencies and tribal bodies as part of certain precautionary measures intended to help slow the spread of COVID-19. During the year ended December 31, 2021, most of our properties experienced positive trends as restrictions on maximum capacities and amenities available were eased. Following temporary furloughs and salary reductions during 2020, the Company has emphasized a focus on labor efficiencies as operations resumed. As properties began to reopen during the year ended December 31, 2020, certain capacity restrictions, mask mandates, sanitation guidelines, and the federal COVID-19 vaccine and testing emergency temporary standard were adhered to as required by governmental or tribal orders, directives, and guidelines. We experienced positive operating trends in 2021, with a continued focus on operational efficiencies. Although we have experienced a decline in net income, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margins for the year ended December 31, 2021 exceeded pre-pandemic levels experienced in 2019 within our Las Vegas and Regional segments. However, certain revenue streams, such as convention and entertainment revenues, continued to be negatively impacted due to capacity restrictions in the first half of 2021. Future effects of COVID-19 from further outbreaks, including new variants, mask mandates or other restrictions are uncertain and could result in additional closures such as the temporary closure of Caesars Windsor from January 5, 2022 through January 31, 2022. Extensive closure periods impacting many of our properties would have a material adverse effect on future results of operations. • Impairment Charges – As a result of COVID-19, we recognized impairment charges in our Regional segment related to goodwill and trade names totaling $100 million and $16 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2020. In addition, as a result of entering agreements to sell properties in our Regional segment, impairment charges totaling $99 million were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2020 due to the carrying value exceeding the net sales proceeds. In December 2021, the Company approved a capital plan which included the planned rebranding of certain of our properties, which is expected to be substantially complete by December 31, 2022. The Company utilized an income approach to determine the fair value of the trademarks subject to rebranding based on their expected future cash flows, which resulted in an impairment charge of $102 million. The adjusted carrying values of these trademarks, previously considered to have indefinite lives, have begun to be amortized over their respective remaining useful lives. • Weather and Construction Disruption – During the third quarter of 2021, our Regional segment was negatively impacted by natural disasters including Hurricane Ida in Louisiana and Mississippi and wildfires in the Lake Tahoe area. Harrah’s New Orleans, Harrah’s Lake Tahoe and Harvey’s Lake Tahoe all experienced temporary closures which lasted slightly more than one week. Additionally, in late August 2020, our Regional segment was negatively impacted by Hurricane Laura, causing severe damage to Lake Charles, which will remain closed until the second half of 2022 when construction of a new land-based casino is expected to be complete. During the year ended December 31, 2021 , we received insurance proceeds of $44 million related to damaged fixed assets and remediation costs. The Company also recorded a gain of $21 million as proceeds received for the cost to replace damaged property were in excess of the respective carrying value of the assets. • Caesars Sportsbook Launch and Rebranding – In connection with the launch and rebranding of the Caesars Sportsbook app during the year ended December 31, 2021, our Caesars Digital segment initiated a significant marketing campaign with distinguished actors, athletes and other media personalities. As new states and jurisdictions 38 have legalized sports betting, we have made significant upfront investment which has been executed through the marketing campaign and promotional incentives to establish ourselves as an industry leader. • Post-Merger Synergies – We continue to identify operating and cost efficiencies, including savings from the purchasing power of th e combined Caesars organization and targeted integrated marketing strategies, as well as the elimination of redundant costs such as accounting and professional expenses, certain payroll costs, and other corporate costs. As a result, we experienced margin improvements in our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. Results of Operations The following table highlights the results of our operations: ___________________ (a) Corporate and Other includes revenues related to certain licensing arrangements and various revenue sharing agreements. Corporate and Other Adjusted EBITDA includes corporate overhead costs, which consist of certain expenses, such as: payroll, professional fees and other general and administrative expenses. (b) See the “Supplemental Unaudited Presentation of Consolidated Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”)” discussion later in this MD&A for a description of Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA related margins. (c) Net income (loss) margin is calculated as net income (loss) divided by net revenues. Consolidated comparison for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 The following table highlights the results of our operations: Comparisons between 2021 and 2020 are described below. A discussion of changes in our results of operations between year ended December 31, 2020 compared to 2019 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K and can be found in “ ” of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. The reclassification of Horseshoe Hammond from discontinued operations to continuing operations in the year ended December 31, 2020 did not result in material changes to the comparative analysis provided on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. 39 Net Revenues Net revenues were as follows: ___________________ * Not meaningful. Consolidated revenues increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to recent acquisitions including the Merger on July 20, 2020, the William Hill Acquisition on April 22, 2021, and the consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore on August 26, 2021, offset by the divestiture of certain properties discussed above. In addition, net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 public health emergency. All of our casino properties were temporarily closed for the period from mid-March 2020 through mid-May 2020. Further, many of our properties were operating under restrictive guidelines through the first half of 2021 due to orders issued by various government agencies and tribal bodies as part of certain precautionary measures intended to help slow the spread of COVID-19. Local and state regulations and the implementation of social distancing and health and safety protocols in response to COVID-19 resulted in reduced gaming capacity and hotel occupancy as well as limitations on the operation of food and beverage outlets, live entertainment events, and conventions. As of December 31, 2021, all of our properties have resumed certain operations, to the extent permitted, with the exception of Lake Charles which was severely damaged by Hurricane Laura and will remain closed until the second half of 2022 when construction of a new land-based casino is expected to be completed. Operating Expenses Operating expenses were as follows: ___________________ * Not meaningful. Casino and pari-mutuel expenses consist primarily of salaries and wages associated with our gaming operations, marketing and promotions and gaming taxes. Hotel expenses consist principally of salaries, wages and supplies associated with our hotel operations. Food and beverage expenses consist principally of salaries and wages and costs of goods sold associated with our food and beverage operations. Other expenses consist principally of salaries and wages and costs of goods sold associated with our retail, entertainment and other operations. Casino and pari-mutuel, hotel, food and beverage, and other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased year over year as a result of our recent acquisitions, including the Merger, the William Hill Acquisition, and the consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore. In addition, the reopening of substantially all of our properties to the extent permitted by regulations governing the applicable jurisdiction, the partial return of our workforce, and advertising costs consisting of television, radio and internet marketing campaigns directly attributable to the launch and rebranding of our Caesars Sportsbook app contributed 40 to the increase noted. These increases were partially offset as the Company focused on labor efficiencies and post-merger synergies, as described above. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company managed increases in food costs and effectively improved margins by focusing on efficiencies within food and beverage venues and menu options. General and administrative expenses include items such as information technology, facility maintenance, utilities, property and liability insurance, expenses for administrative departments such as accounting, compliance, purchasing, human resources, legal and internal audit, and property taxes. General and administrative expenses also include other marketing expenses not directly related to our gaming and non-gaming operations. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased year over year as the result of the reopening of all of our properties to the extent permitted by regulations governing the applicable jurisdiction, the Merger, the William Hill Acquisition and the consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore. These increases were partially offset by a reduced cost structure implemented by the Company while our properties were temporarily closed due to the impact of COVID-19. Additionally, synergies associated with the combined companies from the Merger and the Company’s focus on labor efficiencies and expense savings resulted in reductions to certain administrative costs for the year ended December 31, 2021. Corporate expenses include unallocated expenses such as payroll, annual bonus plans, stock-based compensation, professional fees, and other various expenses not directly related to the Company’s operations. For the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same prior year period, corporate expenses increased primarily due to the Merger, the William Hill Acquisition and the consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore. In addition, payroll costs increased as compared to the prior year period due to performance-based incentives and higher costs in the labor market. These costs have been partially offset by a decline in the corporate headcount. For the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same prior year period, depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to the recent acquisitions, including the Merger, the William Hill Acquisition, and the consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore. Transaction costs and other operating costs primarily included expenses related to the William Hill Acquisition for the year ended December 31, 2021 and costs related to the Merger for the year ended December 31, 2020. Impairment charges in 2021 relate to the rebranding of certain of our properties. Impairment charges in 2020 relate to the impairment of goodwill and trade names recognized due to a triggering event resulting from COVID-19 and agreements to sell properties whereby the carrying value exceeded the estimated net sales proceeds. Other Expense Other expense was as follows: ___________________ * Not meaningful. For the year ended December 31, 2021, interest expense, net increased year over year as a result of the Merger, the William Hill Acquisition and the consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore. Outstanding debt assumed, additional debt raised, and assumed financing obligations resulted in the increase in interest expense. The increase was partially offset by reduction in interest expense due to the extinguishment of the 5% Convertible Notes, early extinguishment of the CRC Notes, partial repayment of the CEI Senior Notes and the repricing of CRC Incremental Term Loan. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the loss on extinguishment of debt was related to early repayment premiums, and extinguishment of deferred financing costs and discounts associated with the prepayments of the CRC Notes and CEI Senior Notes, the repricing of the CRC Incremental Term Loan, and the early extinguishment of the 5% Convertible Notes. The loss on extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2020 was related to the payment of outstanding debt in connection with the Merger. 41 For the year ended December 31, 2021, other income (loss) fluctuated year over year mainly due to a loss on the change in fair value of investments and a loss on the change in fair value of the derivative liability related to the 5% Convertible Notes. The effective tax rate was 22.3% for 2021, (8.2%) for 2020, and 35.2% for 2019. The effective tax rate in 2020 differed from the statutory rate of 21% primarily due to an increase in valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets due to the series of transactions with VICI during the year. Such transactions did not occur in 2021. Refer to Item 8. - Note 17 for the effective income tax rate reconciliation. Segment comparison for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 Las Vegas Segment ___________________ * Not meaningful. Las Vegas segment’s net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA increased as a result of the Merger and reopening of all of our Las Vegas properties in accordance with state and local regulations as of December 31, 2021. In June 2021, convention and entertainment venues began to reopen as COVID-19 capacity restrictions were lifted. During the year ended December 31, 2021, all of our reopened properties in the Las Vegas segment experienced an increase in net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA compared to Former Caesars’ prior year results as all properties were temporarily closed for a portion of 2020. Slot win percentage in Las Vegas during the year ended December 31, 2021 was within our typical range and hotel occupancy trended upward compared to 2020. Additionally, pent up demand positively impacted our results of operations in the Las Vegas segment for the year ended December 31, 2021. These positive trends, however, may not be sustained due to increasing costs and continuing uncertainty relating to COVID-19. 42 Regional Segment ___________________ * Not meaningful. Regional segment’s net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same prior year period as a result of the Merger and consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore. The increase was slightly offset by divestitures of certain properties and closures of certain properties due to Hurricane Ida and the Caldor fire. As of December 31, 2021, all of our properties in our Regional segment reopened, with the exception of Lake Charles which closed due to severe damage from Hurricane Laura and will remain closed until the second half of 2022 when construction of a new land-based casino is expected to be completed. Slot win percentage in the Regional segment during the year ended December 31, 2021 was within our typical range. Additionally, pent up demand positively impacted our results of operations in the Regional segment for the year ended December 31, 2021. These positive trends, however, may not be sustained due to increasing costs and continuing uncertainty relating to COVID-19. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our Regional segment’s net revenues, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin increased compared to the prior year across all properties, including Former Caesars, due to reductions in workforce and marketing costs, synergies from the purchasing power of the combined Caesars organization, and the Company’s focus on higher margin food and beverage offerings. Caesars Digital Segment ___________________ * Not meaningful. 43 (a) Caesars Digital generated an additional $706 million of sports betting handle, which is not included in this table for the year ended December 31, 2021, for select wholly-owned and third-party operations for which Caesars Digital provides services and we receive all. or a share of, the net profits. Sports betting handle includes $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, related to horse racing and pari-mutuel wagers. Caesars Digital includes Caesars operations for retail and mobile sports betting, online casino, and online poker. It is comprised of the Caesars interactive business acquired in the Merger, operations acquired in the William Hill Acquisition and historical iGaming at Tropicana Atlantic City. Caesars Digital’s sports betting handle, iGaming handle, and net revenues increased significantly for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same prior year period due to the acquisitions and the recent marketing launch of our new sportsbook. However, net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 were negatively impacted by a sports betting hold percentage that was below our typical range. The low hold percentage was driven in part by increased odds and profit boosts, which are promotional enhancements that improve odds or wager payouts for customers. In addition, our hold percentage was negatively impacted by competitive pricing strategies and lower than typical hold in certain betting markets. iGaming hold percentage for the year ended December 31, 2021 was within our typical range. In connection with the launch of our Caesars branded sportsbook and iGaming applications, we deployed a significant level of marketing spend to build brand awareness and acquire and retain customers. As sports betting and online casinos expand through increased state legalization and customer adoption, growth in marketing and promotional costs in highly competitive markets negatively impacts Caesars Digital Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margins in comparison to prior periods. Managed and Branded Segment ___________________ * Not meaningful. We manage several properties and license rights to the use of our brands. These revenue agreements typically include reimbursement of certain costs that we incur directly. Such costs are primarily related to payroll costs incurred on behalf of the properties under management. The revenue related to these reimbursable management costs has a direct impact on our evaluation of Adjusted EBITDA margin which, when excluded, reflects margins typically realized from such agreements. The table below presents the amount included in net revenues and total operating expenses related to these reimbursable costs. ___________________ * Not meaningful. Managed and Branded segment’s net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA increased as a result of the Merger. Upon the consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore, the operations of the property are included in the Regional segment above and management revenue is eliminated upon consolidation. Additionally, in connection with the closing of the sale of Caesars Southern Indiana on September 3, 2021, the Company and the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians (“EBCI”) extended their existing relationship by entering into a 10-year brand license agreement, with cancellation rights in exchange for a termination fee at the buyer’s discretion following the fifth anniversary of the agreement, for the continued use of the Caesars brand and Caesars Rewards loyalty program at Caesars Southern Indiana. Caesars Southern Indiana was previously reported within the Regional segment and subsequent to the sale, as a result of the license agreement relating to the continued use of the Caesars brand and Caesars Rewards loyalty program at Caesars Southern Indiana, is reported within the Managed and Branded 44 segment. All of our managed properties have reopened as of December 31, 2021, however, a subsequent temporary closure of Caesars Windsor occurred from January 5, 2022 through January 31, 2022 due to COVID - 19. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net revenues and Adjusted EBITDA for Managed and Branded increased as compared to Former Caesars’ prior period. Corporate & Other ___________________ * Not meaningful. Supplemental Unaudited Presentation of Consolidated Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) for the Years Ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 Adjusted EBITDA (described below), a non-GAAP financial measure, has been presented as a supplemental disclosure because it is a widely used measure of performance and basis for valuation of companies in our industry and we believe that this non-GAAP supplemental information will be helpful in understanding our ongoing operating results. Management has historically used Adjusted EBITDA when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of certain recurring and non-recurring items is necessary to provide a full understanding of our core operating results and as a means to evaluate period-to-period results. Adjusted EBITDA represents net income (loss) before interest income or interest expense net of interest capitalized, (benefit) provision for income taxes, unrealized (gain) loss on investments and marketable securities, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, impairment charges, transaction expenses, severance expense, selling costs associated with the divestitures of properties, equity in income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates, (gain) loss on the sale or disposal of property and equipment, (gain) loss related to divestitures, changes in the fair value of certain derivatives and certain non-recurring expenses such as sign-on and retention bonuses, business optimization expenses and transformation expenses, certain litigation awards and settlements, losses on inventory associated with properties temporarily closed as a result of the COVID-19 public health emergency, contract exit or termination costs, and certain regulatory settlements. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes the expense associated with certain of our leases as these transactions were accounted for as financing obligations and the associated expense is included in interest expense. Adjusted EBITDA is not a measure of performance or liquidity calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA is unaudited and should not be considered an alternative to, or more meaningful than, net income (loss) as an indicator of our operating performance. Uses of cash flows that are not reflected in Adjusted EBITDA include capital expenditures, interest payments, income taxes, debt principal repayments, payments under our leases with affiliates of GLPI and VICI Properties Inc. and certain regulatory gaming assessments, which can be significant. As a result, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of our liquidity. Other companies that provide EBITDA information may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do. The definition of Adjusted EBITDA may not be the same as the definitions used in any of our debt agreements. 45 The following table summarizes our Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, in addition to reconciling net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA in accordance with GAAP (unaudited): 46 ____________________ (a) Other (income) loss primarily includes changes in fair value of investments, changes in fair value of the derivative liability related to the 5% Convertible Notes, and gains and losses on foreign currency exchange. (b) Transaction costs and other operating costs primarily represent costs related to the William Hill Acquisition and the Merger, various contract or license termination exit costs, professional services, other acquisition costs and severance costs. (c) Other items primarily represent certain consulting and legal fees, rent for non-operating assets, relocation expenses, retention bonuses, and business optimization expenses. (d) Represents results of operations for Horseshoe Baltimore for periods prior to the consolidation resulting from the Company’s increase in its ownership interest on August 26, 2021. Such figures are based on unaudited internal financial statements and have not been reviewed by the Company’s auditors and do not conform to GAAP. (e) Pre-acquisition William Hill represents results of operations for William Hill prior to the acquisition. Such figures are based on unaudited internal financial statements and have not been reviewed by the Company’s auditors and, for the 2021, 2020 and 2019 periods, do not conform to GAAP. (f) Divestitures include results of operations for certain properties divested. See Item 7 - Overview above. Such figures are based on unaudited internal financial statements and have not been reviewed by the Company’s auditors and do not conform to GAAP. (g) Such presentation does not conform to GAAP or the Securities and Exchange Commission rules for pro forma presentation; however, we believe that the additional financial information will be helpful to investors in comparing current results with results of prior periods. This is non-GAAP data and should not be considered a substitute for data prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should be viewed in addition to the results of operations reported by the Company. (h) Pre-acquisition CEC represents results of operations for Former Caesars prior to the Merger. Such figures are based on unaudited internal financial statements and have not been reviewed by the Company’s auditors and, for the 2020 and 2019 periods, do not conform to GAAP. Liquidity and Capital Resources We are a holding company and our only significant assets are ownership interests in our subsidiaries. Our ability to fund our obligations depends on existing cash on hand, contracted asset sales, cash flows from our subsidiaries and our ability to raise capital. Our primary sources of liquidity and capital resources are existing cash on hand, cash flows from operations, availability of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities, proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity securities and proceeds from completed asset sales. Our cash requirements may fluctuate significantly depending on our decisions with respect to business acquisitions or divestitures and strategic capital and marketing investments. As of December 31, 2021, our cash on hand and revolving borrowing capacity were as follows: ___________________ (a) Revolver capacity includes $995 million under our CEI Revolving Credit Facility, as amended, maturing in July 2025, $1,025 million under our CRC Revolving Credit Facility, maturing in December 2022 and $10 million under our Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility, maturing in July 2022. 47 During the year ended December 31, 2021, our operating activities generated operating cash inflows of $1.2 billion, as compared to operating cash outflows of $561 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 due to the results of operations described above in addition to the Merger, William Hill Acquisition and consolidation of Horseshoe Baltimore. In addition, we continue to improve our financial position and reduce our operating costs related to our debt through accelerated repayments, amendments to existing debt agreements and obtaining favorable rates on new borrowings which has resulted in, and is expected to continue to provide, interest expense savings. On September 21, 2021, CRC entered into a second amendment related to the CRC Incremental Term Loan to reduce the interest rate margins to 3.50% per annum in the case of any London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) loan or 2.50% per annum in the case of any base rate loan. The CRC Incremental Term Loan is a LIBOR based loan of which the amendment lowers our annual interest cost by reducing the applicable margin by 100 basis points from 4.50% to 3.50%. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company purchased or redeemed all $1.7 billion 5.25% senior notes due 2025 (the “CRC Notes”) and recognized a $199 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company purchased a total of $100 million in principal amount of the $1.8 billion 8.125% Senior Notes due 2027 (the “CEI Senior Notes”) and the Company recognized a $14 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt. On September 24, 2021, the Company issued $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due 2029 (the “Senior Notes”) pursuant to an indenture dated as of September 24, 2021 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. The Senior Notes will mature on October 15, 2029 with interest payable on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2022. Proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes, as well as cash on hand, was used to repay the CRC Notes, as described above. As a result of our increased ownership interest in Horseshoe Baltimore, we began to consolidate the aggregate principal amount of Horseshoe Baltimore’s senior secured term loan facility (the “Baltimore Term Loan”) and amounts outstanding, if any, under Horseshoe Baltimore’s senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility”). The Baltimore Term Loan matures in 2024 and is subject to a variable rate of interest calculated as LIBOR plus 4.00%. The Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility has borrowing capacity of up to $10 million available, matures in 2022, and is subject to a variable rate of interest calculated as LIBOR plus 6.00%. As of December 31, 2021, there was $10 million of available borrowing capacity under the Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility. On September 30, 2020, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement with William Hill PLC on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition pursuant to which the Company would acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital (other than shares owned by the Company or held in treasury) of William Hill PLC, in an all-cash transaction. On April 22, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of William Hill PLC for £2.9 billion , or approximately $3.9 billion . In connection with the William Hill Acquisition, on April 22, 2021, a newly formed subsidiary of the Company (the “Bridge Facility Borrower”) entered into a Credit Agreement (the “Bridge Credit Agreement”) with certain lenders party thereto and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, pursuant to which the lenders party thereto provided the Debt Financing (as defined below). The Bridge Credit Agreement provides for (a) a 540-day £1.0 billion asset sale bridge facility, (b) a 60-day £503 million cash confirmation bridge facility and (c) a 540-day £116 million revolving credit facility (collectively, the “Debt Financing”). The proceeds of the bridge loan facilities provided under the Bridge Credit Agreement were used (i) to pay a portion of the cash consideration for the acquisition and (ii) to pay fees and expenses related to the acquisition and related transactions. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility under the Bridge Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. The £1.5 billion Interim Facilities Agreement (the “Interim Facilities Agreement”) entered into on October 6, 2020 with Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and amended on December 11, 2020, was terminated upon the execution of the Bridge Credit Agreement. On May 12, 2021, we repaid the £503 million cash confirmation bridge facility. On June 14, 2021, the Company drew down the full £116 million from the revolving credit facility and the proceeds, in addition to excess Company cash, were used to make a partial repayment of the asset sale bridge facility in the amount of £700 million. Outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Credit Agreement are expected to be repaid upon the sale of William Hill International. Certain investments acquired have been excluded from the held for sale asset group. On September 8, 2021, the Company entered into an agreement to sell William Hill International to 888 Holdings Plc for approximately £2.2 billion. After repayment of the outstanding debt under the Bridge Credit Agreement, described above, the Company expects to receive approximately £835 million, or $1.2 billion, subject to any permitted leakage, which is customary for sale transactions in the UK. In order to manage the risk of changes in the GBP denominated sales price and expected proceeds, the Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts. The sale is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of the approval of shareholders of 888 Holdings Plc and regulatory approvals, and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2022. 48 We expect that our primary capital requirements going forward will relate to the expansion and maintenance of our properties, taxes, servicing our outstanding indebtedness, and rent payments under our GLPI Master Lease, the VICI Leases and other leases. We make capital expenditures and perform continuing refurbishment and maintenance at our properties to maintain our quality standards. Our capital expenditure requirements for 2022 are expected to increase compared to prior periods as a result of increased expansion projects, the rebranding of certain properties, implementation and migration of states to our Liberty platform and continued investment into new markets with our Caesars Sportsbook and iGaming applications in our Caesars Digital segment. In addition, we may, from time to time, seek to repurchase our outstanding indebtedness. Any such purchases may be funded by existing cash balances or the incurrence of debt. The amount and timing of any repurchase will be based on business and market conditions, capital availability, compliance with debt covenants and other considerations. In 2020, we funded $400 million to escrow as of the closing of the Merger and have begun to utilize those funds in accordance with a three year capital expenditure plan in the state of New Jersey. This amount is currently included in restricted cash in Other assets, net. As of December 31, 2021, our restricted cash balance in the escrow account was $297 million for future capital expenditures in New Jersey. As a condition of the extension of the casino operating contract and ground lease for Harrah’s New Orleans, we are also required to make a capital investment of $325 million in Harrah’s New Orleans by July 15, 2024. In connection with the capital investment in Harrah’s New Orleans, construction has begun and we are in the process of rebranding the property as Caesars New Orleans which we expect to be complete in 2024. On August 27, 2020 , Hurricane Laura made landfall on Lake Charles as a Category 4 storm. The hurricane severely damaged Lake Charles and the Company has begun to receive insurance proceeds related to, in part, estimated damages and repairs that have been incurred to the property. A portion of the proceeds received is expected to be utilized for the construction of a new land-based casino which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2022. We continue to expand into new markets with projects such as Caesars Virginia, which is expected to be a $500 million premier destination resort casino. The property plans to include a 500 room hotel and casino including slot machines, table games, WSOP Room and Caesars Sportsbook. Additionally, Caesars announced the plans to expand into Nebraska with a $75 million development of a Harrah’s casino and racetrack. Cash spent for capital expenditures totaled $520 million, $164 million, $171 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, related to our growth, renovation, maintenance, and other capital projects. Due, in part, to constraints on the supply chain, certain projects and planned spend during 2021 are expected to be incurred during 2022. The following table summarizes our estimates for 2022 capital expenditures: A significant portion of our liquidity needs are for debt service and payments associated with our leases. Our estimated debt service (including principal and interest) is approximately $840 million for 2022 . We also lease certain real property assets from third parties, including VICI and GLPI. We estimate our lease payments to VICI and GLPI to be approximately $1.2 billion for 2022 . On June 21, 2021, the Company delivered a notice of mandatory conversion to the trustee of the 5% Convertible Notes to convert all outstanding notes on June 24, 2021. All outstanding notes, at the election of either the Company or the holder, were subject to conversion into approximately 0.014 shares of the Company’s Common Stock (“Company Common Stock”) and approximately $1.17 of cash per $1.00 principal amount of the 5% Convertible Notes. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company converted the remaining outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 5% Convertible Notes, which resulted in cash payments of $367 million, net of approximately $12 million paid into our trust accounts and the issuance of approximately 5 million shares of Company Common Stock. The Company periodically divests assets that it does not consider core to its business to raise capital or, in some cases, to comply with conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions imposed by antitrust, gaming and other regulatory entities. We have 49 divested of several international properties including an interest in a Korea joint venture and the Caesars UK Group, which includes Emerald Resort & Casino. The sale of the Caesars UK Group closed on July 16, 2021, and t he buyer assumed all liabilities associated with the Caesars UK Group. We also expect to divest of William Hill International in the second quarter of 2022 , as described above. On April 6, 2021, the Company consummated the sale of the equity interests of MontBleu for $15 million. The purchase price is due no later than the first anniversary of the consummation of the transaction. On September 3, 2020, the Company and VICI entered into an agreement to sell the equity interests of Harrah’s Louisiana Downs to Rubico Acquisition Corp. for $22 million, subject to a customary working capital adjustment. The proceeds were split between the Company and VICI. On November 1, 2021, the sale of Harrah’s Louisiana Downs was completed. The annual base rent payments under the Regional lease between Caesars and VICI remain unchanged. On June 3, 2021, the Company consummated the sale of the real property and equity interests of Evansville to GLPI and Bally’s Corporation, respectively, for $480 million in cash, subject to a customary working capital adjustment, resulting in a gain of $12 million. On December 1, 2020, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell the operations of Baton Rouge to CQ Holding Company, Inc. The transaction has received regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first quarter of 2022, subject to other customary closing conditions. On December 24, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the equity interests of Caesars Southern Indiana to the EBCI for $250 million, subject to customary purchase price adjustments. On September 3, 2021, the Company completed the sale of Caesars Southern Indiana resulting in a gain of $12 million. In connection with this transaction, the Company’s annual base rent payments to VICI Properties under the Regional Master Lease were reduced by $33 million. If the agreed upon selling price for future divestitures does not exceed the carrying value of the assets, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future periods which may be material. We expect that our current liquidity, cash flows from operations, availability of borrowings under committed credit facilities and proceeds from the announced asset sales will be sufficient to fund our operations, capital requirements and service our outstanding indebtedness for the next twelve months. However, we cannot be certain that the COVID-19 public health emergency will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations or cause disruption in the financial markets that could adversely affect ability to access additional capital. Debt and Master Lease Covenant Compliance The Caesars Resort Collection (“CRC”) Credit Agreement, the CEI Revolving Credit Facility, the Baltimore Term Loan and the indentures related to the CEI Senior Secured Notes, the CEI Senior Notes, the CRC Senior Secured Notes and the Senior Notes contain covenants which are standard and customary for these types of agreements. These include negative covenants, which, subject to certain exceptions and baskets, limit our ability to (among other items) incur additional indebtedness, make investments, make restricted payments, including dividends, grant liens, sell assets and make acquisitions. The CRC Revolving Credit Facility and the CEI Revolving Credit Facility include a maximum first-priority net senior secured leverage ratio financial covenant of 6.35:1, which is applicable solely to the extent that certain testing conditions are satisfied. The Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility includes a senior secured leverage ratio financial covenant of 5.0:1. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under the relevant debt document. The GLPI Leases and VICI Leases contain certain covenants requiring minimum capital expenditures based on a percentage of net revenues along with maintaining certain financial ratios. The Bridge Credit Agreement associated with the planned divestiture of William Hill International, which is presented within liabilities held for sale, includes a financial covenant requiring the Bridge Facility Borrower to comply with a maximum total net leverage ratio of 10.50 to 1.00. The borrowings under the Bridge Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the Bridge Facility Borrower and the Bridge Facility Borrower’s material wholly-owned subsidiaries (subject to exceptions), and are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the existing and future property and assets of the Bridge Facility Borrower and the guarantors (subject to exceptions). Additionally, no financial covenants are related to the $943 million of debt from the two trust deeds assumed in the William Hill Acquisition, which are also held for sale. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all of the applicable financial covenants described above. 50 Share Repurchase Program On November 8, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a $150 million common stock repurchase program (the “Share Repurchase Program”) pursuant to which we may, from time to time, repurchase shares of common stock on the open market (either with or without a 10b5-1 plan) or through privately negotiated transactions. The Share Repurchase Program has no time limit and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. There is no minimum number of shares of common stock that we are required to repurchase under the Share Repurchase Program. As of December 31, 2021, we have acquired 223,823 shares of common stock under the program at an aggregate value of $9 million and an average of $40.80 per share. No shares were repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2021 or 2020. Debt Obligations and Leases Baltimore Term Loan and Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility As a result of our increased ownership interest in Horseshoe Baltimore, we began to consolidate the aggregate principal amount of Horseshoe Baltimore’s senior secured term loan facility (the “Baltimore Term Loan”) and amount outstanding, if any, under Horseshoe Baltimore’s senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility”). The Baltimore Term Loan matures in 2024 and is subject to a variable rate of interest calculated as LIBOR plus 4.00%. The Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility has borrowing capacity of up to $10 million available and matures in 2022, subject to a variable rate of interest calculated as LIBOR plus 6.00%. As of December 31, 2021, there was $10 million of available borrowing capacity under the Baltimore Revolving Credit Facility. CRC Term Loans and CRC Revolving Credit Facility CRC is party to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 22, 2017 (as amended, the “CRC Credit Agreement”), which included a $1.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility (the “CRC Revolving Credit Facility”) and an initial $4.7 billion seven-year first lien term loan (the “CRC Term Loan”), which was increased by $1.8 billion pursuant to an incremental agreement executed in connection with the Merger (the “CRC Incremental Term Loan”). The CRC Term Loan matures in December 2024 and the CRC Incremental Term Loan matures in July 2025. The CRC Revolving Credit Facility matures in December 2022 and includes a $400 million letter of credit sub-facility. The CRC Term Loan and the CRC Incremental Term Loan require scheduled quarterly principal payments in amounts equal to 0.25% of the original aggregate principal amount, with the balance due at maturity. The CRC Credit Agreement also includes customary voluntary and mandatory prepayment provisions, subject to certain exceptions. Borrowings under the CRC Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate equal to either (a) LIBOR adjusted for certain additional costs, subject to a floor of 0% or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the prime rate as determined by Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent under the CRC Credit Agreement and (iii) the one-month adjusted LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, in each case plus an applicable margin. Such applicable margin shall be (a) with respect to the CRC Term Loan, 2.75% per annum in the case of any LIBOR loan or 1.75% per annum in the case of any base rate loan, (b) with respect to the CRC Incremental Term Loan, 4.50% per annum in the case of any LIBOR loan or 3.50% in the case of any base rate loan and (c) in the case of the CRC Revolving Credit Facility, 2.25% per annum in the case of any LIBOR loan and 1.25% per annum in the case of any base rate loan, subject in the case of the CRC Revolving Credit Facility to two 0.125% step-downs based on CRC’s senior secured leverage ratio (“SSLR”), the ratio of first lien senior secured net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The CRC Revolving Credit Facility is subject to a financial covenant discussed below. On September 21, 2021, CRC entered into a second amendment related to the CRC Incremental Term Loan to reduce the interest rate margins to 3.50% per annum in the case of any LIBOR loan or 2.50% per annum in the case of any base rate loan. The CRC Term Loan and the CRC Incremental Term Loan are LIBOR based loans as of December 31, 2021. In addition, CRC is required to pay a commitment fee in respect of any commitments under the CRC Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of 0.50% of the principal amount of the commitments, subject to step-downs to 0.375% and 0.25% based upon CRC’s SSLR. CRC is also required to pay customary agency fees as well as letter of credit participation fees computed at a rate per annum equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings on the dollar equivalent of the daily stated amount of outstanding letters of credit, plus such letter of credit issuer’s customary documentary and processing fees and charges and a fronting fee in an amount equal to 0.125% of the daily stated amount of such letter of credit. We had $956 million of available borrowing capacity, after consideration of $69 million in outstanding letters of credit under the CRC Revolving Credit Facility, as of December 31, 2021. 51 CEI Revolving Credit Facility On July 20, 2020, we entered into a new credit agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, U.S. Bank National Association, as collateral agent, and certain banks and other financial institutions and lenders party thereto, as well as an incremental amendment thereto, which provide for a five-year CEI Revolving Credit Facility for an aggregate principal amount of $1.2 billion (the “CEI Revolving Credit Facility”). On November 10, 2021, we amended the CEI Revolving Credit Facility to establish reserves in the total amount of $190 million which are available only for permitted use. The CEI Revolving Credit Facility matures in July 2025 and includes a letter of credit sub-facility of $250 million. The interest rate per annum applicable under the CEI Revolving Credit Facility, at the Company’s option is either (a) LIBOR adjusted for certain additional costs, subject to a floor of 0% or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the highest of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the prime rate as determined by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and (iii) the one-month adjusted LIBOR rate plus 1.00%, in each case plus an applicable margin. Such applicable margin shall be 3.25% per annum in the case of any LIBOR loan and 2.25% per annum in the case of any base rate loan, subject to three 0.25% step-downs based on the Company’s total leverage ratio. Additionally, we are required to pay a commitment fee in respect of any unused commitments under the CEI Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of 0.50% of principal amount of the commitments of all lenders, subject to a step-down to 0.375% based upon the Company’s total leverage ratio. We are also required to pay customary agency fees as well as letter of credit participation fees computed at a rate per annum equal to the applicable margin for LIBOR borrowings on the dollar equivalent of the daily stated amount of outstanding letters of credit, plus such letter of credit issuer’s customary documentary and processing fees and charges and a fronting fee in an amount equal to 0.125% of the daily stated amount of such letter of credit. We had $924 million of available borrowing capacity under the CEI Revolving Credit Facility, after consideration of $23 million in outstanding letters of credit, $48 million committed for regulatory purposes and the reserves described above, as of December 31, 2021. CEI Senior Secured Notes due 2025 On July 6, 2020, the Escrow Issuer issued $3.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% Senior Secured Notes due 2025 pursuant to an indenture dated July 6, 2020 (the “CEI Senior Secured Notes”), by and among the Escrow Issuer, U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, and U.S. Bank National Association, as collateral agent. The Company assumed the rights and obligations under the CEI Senior Secured Notes and the indenture governing such notes on July 20, 2020. The CEI Senior Secured Notes will mature on July 1, 2025 with interest payable semi-annually in cash in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each year. CEI Senior Notes due 2027 On July 6, 2020, the Escrow Issuer issued $1.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of 8.125% Senior Notes due 2027 pursuant to an indenture, dated July 6, 2020 (the “CEI Senior Notes”), by and between the Escrow Issuer and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. We assumed the rights and obligations under the CEI Senior Notes and the indenture governing the CEI Senior Notes on July 20, 2020. The CEI Secured Notes will mature on July 1, 2027 with interest payable semi-annually in cash in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each year. In September 2021, the Company began to repurchase CEI Senior Notes on the open market and, as of December 31, 2021, a total of $100 million in principal amount of CEI Senior Notes was purchased and the Company recognized a $14 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt. CRC Senior Secured Notes due 2025 On July 6, 2020, the Escrow Issuer issued $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due 2025 pursuant to an indenture, dated July 6, 2020 (the “CRC Senior Secured Notes”), by and among the Escrow Issuer, U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee and Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, as collateral agent. In connection with the consummation of the Merger, CRC assumed the rights and obligations under the CRC Senior Secured Notes and the indenture governing such notes. The CRC Senior Secured Notes will mature on July 1, 2025 with interest payable semi-annually in cash in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each year. 5% Convertible Notes On October 6, 2017, Former Caesars issued $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.00% convertible senior notes maturing in 2024 (the “5% Convertible Notes”). The 5% Convertible Notes were convertible into approximately 0.014 shares of the Company’s Common Stock (“Company Common Stock”) and approximately $1.17 of cash per $1.00 principal amount of the 5% Convertible Notes. During the year 52 ended December 31, 2021, the Company converted the remaining outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 5% Convertible Notes, which resulted in cash payments of $367 million, net of approximately $12 million paid into our trust accounts and the issuance of approximately 5 million shares of Company Common Stock. The fair value of the shares contributed to, and held in, the trust was $14 million, which is included within Treasury stock. The Company recognized a loss on the change in fair value of the derivative liability of $16 million recorded in Other income (loss) and a $23 million loss on extinguishment of debt, related to the unamortized discount, on the Statement of Operations. CRC Notes On October 16, 2017, CRC issued $1.7 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior notes due 2025 (the “CRC Notes”). During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company purchased or redeemed all $1.7 billion of the CRC Notes and recognized a $199 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt. Senior Notes due 2029 On September 24, 2021, the Company issued $1.2 billion in aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Senior Notes due 2029 (the “Senior Notes”) pursuant to an indenture dated as of September 24, 2021 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. The Senior Notes will mature on October 15, 2029 with interest payable on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2022. Proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes, as well as cash on hand, was used to repay the CRC Notes, as described above. Convention Center Mortgage Loan On September 18, 2020, we entered into a loan agreement with VICI to borrow a five-year, $400 million Forum Convention Center mortgage loan (the “Mortgage Loan”). The Mortgage Loan bears interest at a rate of, initially, 7.7% per annum, which escalates annually to a maximum interest rate of 8.3% per annum. Beginning October 1, 2021, the Mortgage Loan is subject to an interest rate of 7.854% for the next twelve months. VICI Leases CEI leases certain real property assets from VICI under the following agreements: (i) for a portfolio of properties located throughout the United States (the “Regional Lease”), (ii) for Caesars Palace Las Vegas and Harrah’s Las Vegas (the “Las Vegas Lease”), and (iii) for Harrah’s Joliet Hotel & Casino (the “Joliet Lease”). The lease agreements, inclusive of all amendments, include (i) a 15-year initial term with four five-year renewal options, (ii) annual fixed rent payments of $1.1 billion, subject to annual escalation provisions based on the CPI and a 2% floor commencing in lease year two of the initial term and (iii) a variable element based on net revenues of the underlying leased properties, commencing in lease year eight of the initial term. The Regional Lease includes a put-call option whereby the Company may require VICI to purchase and lease back (as lessor) or whereby VICI may require the Company to sell to VICI and lease back (as lessee) the real estate components of the gaming and racetrack facilities of Harrah’s Hoosier Park Racing & Casino and Indiana Grand (“Centaur properties”). Election to exercise the option by either party must be made during the election period beginning January 1, 2022 and ending December 31, 2024. Upon either party exercising their option, the Centaur properties would be sold at a price in accordance with the agreement and leased back to CEI in accordance to the pre-existing terms of the Regional Lease. The sale of Caesars Southern Indiana to EBCI for $250 million was finalized on September 3, 2021 and as a result of the sale, Caesars’ annual payments to VICI Properties under the Regional Lease decreased by $33 million and variable rent under the lease shall exclude net revenue attributable to Caesars Southern Indiana. Our VICI Leases are accounted for as a financing obligation and totaled $11.1 billion as of December 31, 2021. See Note 10 to our Financial Statements for additional information about our VICI Leases and related matters. GLPI Leases The GLPI Master Lease, encompassing a portfolio of properties within the United States, provides for the lease of land, buildings, structures and other improvements on the land (including barges and riverboats), easements and similar appurtenances to the land and improvements relating to the operation of the leased properties. The GLPI Master Lease, inclusive of all amendments, provides for (i) an initial term of 20 years (through September 2038), with four five-year renewals at the Company’s option, (ii) annual land and building base rent of $24 million and $63 million, (iii) escalating provisions of building base rent equal to 101.25% of the rent for the preceding year for lease years five and six, 101.75% for lease years seven and eight and 102% for each lease year thereafter and (iv) relief from the operating, capital expenditure and financial covenants in the event of involuntary closures. 53 The Lumière Lease was entered into by the Company and GLPI, whereby the Company sold the real estate underlying Lumière to GLPI and leased back the property under a long-term financing obligation. The Lumière Lease, inclusive of all amendments, provides for (i) an initial term commencing on September 29, 2020 and ending on October 31, 2033, (ii) four five-year renewal options, (iii) annual rent payments of $23 million, (iv) escalation provisions commencing in lease year two equal to 101.25% of the rent for the preceding year for lease years two through five, 101.75% for lease years six and seven and 102% for each lease year thereafter, (v) maintaining a minimum of 1.20:1 adjusted revenue to rent ratio and (vi) certain relief under the financial covenant in the event of involuntary closures. The GLPI Leases are accounted for as financing obligations and totaled $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2021. See Note 10 to our Financial Statements for additional information about our GLPI Leases and related matters. Other Liquidity Matters We are faced with certain contingencies, from time to time, involving litigation, claims, assessments, environmental remediation or compliance. These commitments and contingencies are discussed in greater detail in “ Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings ” and Note 11 to our Financial Statements, both of which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, new competition among retail and online operations may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and could have a similar adverse effect on our liquidity. See “ Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business ” which is included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our financial statements in conformity with GAAP. In preparing our financial statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of the amounts and disclosures included in the financial statements, giving regard to materiality. When more than one accounting principle, or method of its application, is generally accepted, we select the principle or method that we consider to be the most appropriate under specific circumstances. Application of these accounting principles requires us to make estimates about the future resolution of existing uncertainties. Certain of our accounting policies, including those in connection with business combinations, certain fair value measurements, income taxes, long-lived assets, goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts related to certain gaming receivables, self-insurance reserves, and litigation, claims and assessments require that we apply significant judgment in defining the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. We consider accounting estimates to be critical accounting policies when: • the estimates involve matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate is made; and • different estimates or changes to estimates could have a material impact on the reported financial position, changes in financial position, or results of operations. By their nature, these judgments and estimates are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Our judgments and estimates are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, observance of trends in the industry, information gathered from customer behavior, and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. Due to the inherent uncertainty involving judgments and estimates, actual results may differ from those estimates. Our most critical accounting estimates and assumptions are in the following areas: Business Combinations We applied the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 805, “Business Combinations,” in the accounting for our acquisitions of Former Caesars, William Hill PLC, and our additional interest in Horseshoe Baltimore. It required us to recognize the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair values, which were determined using market, income, and cost approaches, or a combination. Goodwill as of the respective acquisition dates was measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Goodwill is generally the result of expected synergies of the combined company or an assembled workforce. Indefinite-lived intangible assets acquired primarily include trademarks, Caesars Rewards acquired in the Merger, customer relationships and gaming rights. The fair value for these intangible assets was determined using either the relief from royalty method and excess earnings method under the income approach or a replacement cost market approach. Acquired trademarks, developed technology and Caesars Rewards were valued using the relief from royalty method, which presumes that without ownership of such trademarks, technology, or loyalty program, we would have to make a stream of 54 payments to a third party in return for the right to use their name, technology, or program. By virtue of this asset, we avoid any such payments and record the related intangible value of the Company’s ownership of the brand name, technology, or program. Customer relationships were valued using the cost approach and the incremental cash flow method under the income approach. The incremental cash flow method compares the prospective cash flows with and without the customer relationships in place to estimate the fair value of the customer relationships, with the fair value assumed to be equal to the discounted cash flows of the business that would be lost if the customer relationships were not in place and needed to be replaced. Gaming rights include our gaming licenses in various jurisdictions and may have indefinite lives or an estimated useful life. The fair value of the gaming rights was determined using the excess earnings or replacement cost methodology, based on whether the license resides in gaming jurisdictions where competition is limited to a specified number of licensed gaming operators. The excess earnings methodology is an income approach that estimates the projected cash flows of the business attributable to the gaming license intangible asset, which is net of charges for the use of other identifiable assets of the business including working capital, fixed assets and other intangible assets. The replacement cost of the gaming license was used as an indicator of fair value. Trade receivables and payables and other current and noncurrent assets and liabilities were valued at the existing carrying values as they represented the estimated fair value of those items at the acquisition date. Assets and liabilities held for sale are recorded at fair value, less costs to sell, based on the agreements reached as of the acquisition date, or an income approach. The fair value of the financing obligations were calculated as the net present value of both the fixed base rent payments and the forecasted variable payments plus the expected residual value of the land and building returned at the end of the expected usage period. Reacquired rights were valued using the excess earnings method that reflects the present value of the future profit William Hill expected to earn over the remaining term of the contract, adjusted for returns of other assets that contribute to the generation of this profit, such as working capital, fixed assets and other intangible assets. The forecasted profit used within the valuation was adjusted for the settlement of the preexisting relationship as a component of the purchase consideration. Fair value of land was determined using the sales comparable approach. The market data is then adjusted for any significant differences, to the extent known, between the identified comparable sites and the site being valued. The value of building and site improvements was estimated via the income approach. Other personal property assets such as furniture, gaming and computer equipment, fixtures, computer software, and restaurant equipment were valued using the cost approach which is based on replacement or reproduction costs of the asset. The cost approach is an estimation of fair value developed by computing the current cost of replacing a property and subtracting any depreciation resulting from one or more of the following factors: physical deterioration, functional obsolescence, and/or economic obsolescence. Assets and liabilities which are designated as held for sale on an acquisition date are also measured at fair value, utilizing similar market, income and cost approaches described above, based on the underlying asset class held for sale. Cash flow estimates are significant to many valuations described above and may include forecasts with assumptions regarding factors such as recent and budgeted operating performance, future growth rates, and the determination of appropriate discount rates to estimate fair value. These inputs involve significant assumptions including the future effects of COVID-19 as well as the realization of synergies anticipated from a business combination, which may not be realized as projected. Certain assumptions, such as the effects of COVID-19, may be beyond our control. Fair Value Measurements We use interest rate swaps, which are derivative instruments classified as hedging transactions, to limit our exposure to interest rate risk. Derivative instruments are recognized in the financial statements at fair value. The estimated fair values of our derivative instruments are based on market prices obtained from dealer quotes. Such quotes represent the estimated amounts we would receive or pay to terminate the contracts. Our derivative instruments contain a credit risk that the counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements. We minimize that risk by evaluating the creditworthiness of our counterparties, which are limited to major banks and financial institutions. The fair values of our derivative instruments are adjusted for the credit rating of the counterparty, if the derivative is an asset, or adjusted for the credit rating of the Company, if the derivative is a liability. See Note 8 for more details regarding fair value measurements and Item 7A for quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 55 Income Taxes We and our subsidiaries file income tax returns with federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other tax authorities. Positions taken in tax returns are sometimes subject to uncertainty in the tax laws and may not ultimately be accepted by the IRS or other tax authorities. See Note 17 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the status and impact of examinations by tax authorities. We record income taxes under the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and as attributable to operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. Accordingly, the need to establish valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed periodically based on the “more likely than not” realization threshold. This assessment considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carryforward periods, our experience with operating loss and tax credit carryforwards not expiring unused, and tax planning alternatives. When there is a recent history of operating losses and negative normalized earnings and a return to operating profitability has not yet been demonstrated, we cannot rely on projections of future taxable earnings for purposes of assessing recoverability of our deferred tax assets. In such cases, we use systematic and logical methods to estimate when deferred tax liabilities will reverse and generate taxable income and when deferred tax assets will reverse and generate tax deductions. Our most significant deferred tax asset relates to the failed sale-leaseback obligation with VICI and GLPI (see Note 10). The reversal of this deferred tax asset requires judgment and estimates and has a material impact on the determination of the amount of valuation allowance required. Under the applicable accounting standards, we may recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The accounting standards also provide guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties on income taxes, accounting in interim periods and disclosure requirements for uncertain tax positions. Long-Lived Assets We have significant capital invested in our long-lived assets, and judgments are made in determining the estimated useful lives of assets, salvage values to be assigned to assets, and if or when an asset has been impaired. The accuracy of these estimates affects the amount of depreciation and amortization expense recognized in our financial results and whether we have a gain or loss on the disposal of an asset. We assign lives to our assets based on our standard policy, which is established by management as representative of the useful life of each category of asset. We review the carrying value of our long-lived assets whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. The factors considered by management in performing this assessment include current operating results, trends and prospects, planned construction and renovation projects, as well as the effect of obsolescence, demand, competition, and other economic, legal, and regulatory factors. In estimating expected future cash flows for determining whether an asset is impaired, assets are grouped at the lowest level of identifiable cash flows, which, for most of our assets, is the individual property. See Note 6 for additional information. Goodwill and Other Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets Assessing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment is a process that requires significant judgment and involves detailed qualitative and quantitative business-specific analysis and many individual assumptions which fluctuate between assessments. We determine the estimated fair value of each reporting unit based on a combination of EBITDA, valuation multiples, and estimated future cash flows discounted at rates commensurate with the capital structure and cost of capital of comparable market participants, giving appropriate consideration to the prevailing borrowing rates within the casino industry in general. We also evaluate the aggregate fair value of all of our reporting units and other non-operating assets in comparison to our aggregate debt and equity market capitalization at the test date. EBITDA multiples and discounted cash flows are common measures used to value businesses in our industry. We determine the fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets using either the relief from royalty method or the excess earnings method under the income approach or replacement cost market approach. The determination of fair value of our 56 reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires management to make significant assumptions and estimates around the forecasts as well as the selection of discount rates and valuation multiples. Changes in these estimates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our reporting units, intangible assets and result in potential impairment. Forecasts and the determination of appropriate discount rates and valuation multiples used to determine the fair value of our reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets involves significant assumptions and estimates. Assumptions include those used to assess future effects of COVID-19 as well as the realization of synergies anticipated from acquisitions which may not be realized at the projected rate. We acquired William Hill PLC on April 22, 2021 and allocated the total purchase consideration transferred to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values and therefore, the fair value of the acquired reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets do not significantly exceed their respective carrying values. As of October 1, 2021, one other reporting unit in the Regional Segment with goodwill totaling $420 million had a fair value that did not significantly exceed its respective carrying values. To the extent gaming volumes deteriorate in the near future, discount rates increase significantly, or we do not meet our projected performance, we may recognize further impairments, and such impairments could be material. In addition, $352 million of goodwill within our Regional segment is associated with reporting units with zero or negative carrying value. See Note 7 for additional information. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts - Gaming We reserve an estimated amount for gaming receivables that may not be collected to reduce the Company’s receivables to their net carrying amount. Methodologies for estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts range from specific reserves to various percentages applied to aged receivables. Historical collection rates are considered, as are customer relationships, in determining specific reserves. As with many estimates, management must make judgments about potential actions by third parties in establishing and evaluating our reserves for allowance for doubtful accounts. As of December 31, 2021, a 5% increase or decrease to the allowance determined based on a percentage of aged receivables would change the reserve by approximately $14 million. Self-Insurance Reserves We are self-insured for various levels of general liability, employee medical insurance coverage and workers’ compensation coverage. Insurance claims and reserves include accruals of estimated settlements for known claims, as well as accruals of estimates for claims incurred but not yet reported. We utilize independent consultants to assist management in its determination of estimated insurance liabilities. While the total cost of claims incurred depends on future developments, in managements’ opinion, recorded reserves are adequate to cover future claims payments. Self-insurance reserves for employee medical claims, workers’ compensations and general liability claims are included self-insurance claims and reserves within Accrued other liabilities on the Balance Sheets. See Note 9. The assumptions, including those related to the COVID-19 public health emergency, utilized by our actuaries are subject to significant uncertainty and if outcomes differ from these assumptions or events develop or progress in a negative manner, the Company could experience a material adverse effect and additional liabilities may be recorded in the future. Litigation, Claims and Assessments We utilize estimates for litigation, claims and assessments. These estimates are based on our knowledge and experience regarding current and past events, as well as assumptions about future events. If our assessment of such a matter should change, we may have to change the estimates, which may have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our Financial Statements, see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements , in the Notes.