********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business ordinarily encounters and addresses risks, some of which can cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate. The risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our business and are important to its understanding. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. In addressing these risks, you should also refer to the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our quarterly results of operations have and may continue to fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations, including the levels of our revenues, gross margin, profitability, cash flow, and deferred revenue, has varied and may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. These factors include: our ability to attract and retain new and current Cloud customers, as well as Dayforce Wallet customers; changes on services or pricing impacting our customer contracts; seasonal variations in sales of and revenue from our applications, changes on our operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business including new acquired businesses, operations, and infrastructure; and general economic, industry, and market conditions, including the addition or loss of employees by our Cloud customers who generally pay on a “per employee per month” basis, interest rates and accounting rules. Our business plan is focused on an aggressive growth strategy. If we fail to manage our growth effectively or if our strategy is not successful, we may be unable to execute our business plan, to maintain high levels of service, or to adequately address competitive challenges. We have and we believe we will continue to experience a period of rapid growth in our operations and Cloud solutions. The growth of our operations and Cloud solutions has and may continue to place a strain on our management, administrative, operational, technological and financial infrastructure. In order to manage our growth effectively, we will need to continuously improve our operational, financial, technological and management systems, and our internal controls, reporting systems and procedures to scaled global capabilities which may require investment as we grow and could result in disruption as we transform. Failure to effectively manage growth or to achieve our growth strategy could result in problems or delays in implementing customers, declines in quality or customer satisfaction, increases in costs, complications in introducing new features, or other operational challenges; and any of these difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Revenues from our Cloud solutions have grown substantially over the last few years. Our efforts to continue increasing use of our Cloud solutions and our other applications, including the Dayforce Wallet, may not succeed and may reduce our revenue growth rate. Our ability to continue to grow the revenues from our Cloud solutions through execution against our growth levers depends on the quality of our platform and solutions, and our ability to design our Cloud solutions to meet consumer demand; and our ability to increase sales from existing customers depends on our customers’ satisfaction with our product and need for additional solutions. Our participation in new markets for native payroll, and application expansion in various modules and features, including the Dayforce Wallet, is relatively new, and it is uncertain whether these areas will ever result in significant revenues for us. Further, the entry into new markets or the introduction of new features, functionality, or applications beyond our current markets and functionality may not be successful. If we are unable to sell our Cloud solutions, including the Dayforce Wallet, into new markets or to further penetrate existing markets, or to increase sales from existing customers, our revenue may not grow as expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any factor adversely affecting sales of our Cloud solutions, including application release cycles, delays, or failures in new product functionality, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, and economic and market conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 2021 Form 10-K If we are not able to provide new or enhanced functionality and features or keep pace with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards, we may not be able to satisfy our aggressive growth strategy and the demand for our services may decline. Our ability to increase revenue will depend, in large part, on our ability to develop our existing Cloud solutions to drive sales into new markets around the world, to further penetrate our existing markets, and to increase sales from existing customers who do not utilize the full Dayforce suite. Our future success, and the success of our growth strategy, will depend upon our ability to anticipate and to adapt to changes in technology and industry standards, and to effectively develop, to introduce, to market, and to gain broad acceptance of new service offerings and enhancements incorporating the latest technological advancements. We may not be able to successfully provide new or enhanced functionality and features for our existing solutions that achieve market acceptance or that keep pace with rapid technological developments. Our attempts to develop new or enhanced functionality may be expensive and impact our profitability. Failure in this regard may a material adverse effect on our business, growth strategy, financial condition, and results of operations. Our international growth strategy has and will expose us to risks inherent in international sales and operations. One of our growth levers is international sales growth into new markets and we anticipate that customers and potential customers may increasingly require and demand that a single vendor provide HCM solutions and services for their employees in a number of countries. Our global recent expansion, and any future expansion into new markets, has and will require commensurate ongoing expansion of our monitoring of local laws and regulations, which increases our costs as well as the risk of the product not incorporating in a timely fashion or at all the necessary changes to enable a customer to be compliant with such laws. Additionally, our international operations are subject to risks that could adversely affect those operations or our business as a whole, including but not limited to the costs of establishing a market presence, localizing product and service offerings for foreign customers, difficulties in managing and staffing international operations, and increased expenses related to introducing corporate policies and controls in our international operations and increased reliance on partners to provide services in additional geographies. As part of our international strategy, we work with partners to perform services in certain geographies where we do not currently have international operations or the particular service required by our customers, as a result we may experience business impact if our partners do not carry out the services as committed, including potential for reduced margin from additional expense or impact to customer relationships. Our international growth strategy has and may continue to include growth via acquisition, in which case our growth may also be dependent on our ability to transition acquired customers from current products to Dayforce or to increase sales by addressing broader HCM needs with additional modules of Dayforce. If we are unable to provide the required services on a multinational basis, or if we are unable to effectively manage our international expansion, we could be subject to negative customer experiences, harm to our reputation or loss of customers, claims for any fines, penalties or other damages suffered by our customer, and other financial harm, including fines, penalties, or other damages suffered by us directly, which would negatively impact revenue and earnings. Although we have a multinational strategy, additional investment and efforts may be necessary to implement such strategy. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and competition could intensify in the future. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include: breadth and depth of product functionality, scalability and reliability of applications, robust workforce management, comprehensive tax services, modern and innovative cloud technology platforms combined with an intuitive user experience, multi-country and jurisdiction domain expertise in payroll and HCM, quality of implementation and customer service, integration with a wide variety of third party applications and systems, total cost of ownership and return on investment, brand awareness, and reputation, pricing and distribution. We face a variety of competitors, some of which are long-established providers of HCM solutions. Many of our current and potential competitors are larger, have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger marketing budgets, and significantly greater resources than we do, and are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products and services. Some of our competitors do or could offer HCM solutions bundled as part of a larger product offering. Furthermore, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or to withstand substantial price competition. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases, and major distribution 11 2021 Form 10-K agreements with consultants, system integrators, and resellers. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may further enhance their product offerings or resources. Although we have a global partnership strategy, additional investment and efforts will be necessary to implement such a strategy. If our competitors’ products, services, or technologies become more accepted than our applications are today, if they are successful in bringing their products or services to market earlier than ours, or if their products or services are more technologically capable than ours, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, some of our competitors may offer their products and services at a lower price compared to our products or their current pricing impacting our ability to achieve our target pricing. If we are unable to achieve our target pricing levels or if we experience significant pricing pressures, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our aging software infrastructure, technology, and sophistication of these systems may lead to increased costs, vulnerability to cyber-attack, or disruptions in operations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, market brand, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated systems and technology, including technology infrastructure assets. These systems and technologies must be refined, updated and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis in order for us to meet both our customers’ and employees’ demands and expectations. Some of the crucial platforms on which we host our back office and bureau systems are aged and need to be replaced or are in the process of being replaced. If we are unable to replace our aged, crucial platforms, if some or all these platforms fail to operate due to a software error or infrastructure failure, if we fail to continue to refine and update our systems and technologies on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, if we do not appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, or we are unable to appropriately protect any of these systems, we could suffer the loss of data, vulnerabilities to cyber-attack, system outages or other performance problems, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An information security breach of our systems or the loss of, or unauthorized access to, customer information or sensitive company information; the failure to comply with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission’s (“FTC”) ongoing consent order regarding data protection; or a system disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, market brand, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is dependent on our payroll, transaction, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems. We rely on these systems, which are maintained both internally and externally at third parties, to process, on a daily and time sensitive basis, a large number of complicated transactions. We, both through our internal systems and systems maintained by third parties, electronically receive, process, store, and transmit data and personal information about our customers and their employees, as well as our vendors and other business partners. We keep this information confidential. However, both our internal and third party partners’ websites, networks, applications and technologies, and other information systems may be targeted for sabotage, disruption, or data misappropriation. Further, as we grow by acquisition, these risks become acute in the period following the acquisition, as we set about integrating the acquisition target’s systems into ours. Additionally, as we retire our legacy products like our bureau payroll services, we are decreasing investments in maintaining those systems which creates the potential for a potential security breach of one of those systems. The uninterrupted operation of our information systems and our ability to maintain the confidentiality of personal information and other customer and individual and company information that resides on our systems are critical to the successful operation of our business. We, and our third party providers, maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data and maintain business continuity, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion, cyber-attacks or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. Any information security breach in our business processes or of our processing systems (whether they are maintained internally or externally at third parties) has the potential to impact our customer information and sensitive company information, including our financial reporting capabilities, which could result in the potential loss of business and our ability to accurately report financial results. If any of these systems fail to operate properly or become disabled even for a brief period of time, we could potentially miss a critical filing period, resulting in potential fees and penalties, or lose control of customer data, all of which could result in financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to customers, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation. We are subject to a twenty-year consent order with the FTC that became final in June 2011 stemming from a December 2009 criminal hack into our discontinued U.S. payroll application. We conceded no wrongdoing in the order and we were not subject to any monetary fines or penalties. However, in connection with the order, we are required to, 12 2021 Form 10-K among other things, maintain a comprehensive information security program that is reasonable and appropriate for our size and complexity, and for the type of personal information we collect. We are also required to have portions of our security program, which apply to certain segments of our U.S. business, reviewed by an independent third party on a biennial basis. Maintaining, updating, monitoring, and revising an information security program in an effort to ensure that it remains reasonable and appropriate in light of changes in security threats, changes in technology, and security vulnerabilities that arise from legacy systems is time-consuming and complex, and is an ongoing effort. While we have taken and continue to take steps to ensure compliance with the consent order, if we are determined not to be in compliance with the consent order, or if any new breaches of security occur, the FTC may take enforcement actions or other parties may initiate a lawsuit. Any such resulting fines and penalties could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial results, and any reputational damage therefrom could adversely affect our relationships with our existing customers and our ability to attain new customers. Insurance may be inadequate or may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, our insurance policies may not cover all claims made against us, and defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly, divert management’s attention, or damage our reputation. Our solutions and our business are subject to a variety of U.S. and other countries’ laws and regulations, including those regarding privacy, data protection, and information security. Any failure by us or our third party service providers, as well as the failure of our services, to comply with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to comply with privacy, data protection and information security laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. These laws, which are not uniform, govern the collection, storage, hosting, transfer (including in some cases, the transfer outside the country of collection), use, disclosure, security, retention and destruction of personal information; they require us to give notice to individuals of privacy practices; give individuals certain access and correction rights with respect to their personal information; and regulate the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing. Under certain circumstances, some of these laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, clients, data protection authorities and/or other regulators in the event of a data breach. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries. The European Union (the “EU”) General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”), and the California Consumer Protection Act (the “CCPA”), are among the most comprehensive of these laws. The number of related laws and regulations we are subject to continue to increase as we enter new markets in Europe, Asia Pacific, and Latin America, and as we continue our entry into the consumer space through our Wallet offering. Restrictions on transfers of personal information from one geography to another continue to consolidate. Complying with these laws and requirements, including the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR and the CCPA, has resulted in significant costs to our business and may continue to require us to amend certain of our business practices. Further, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase. The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a material adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in significant regulatory penalties and legal liability and damage our reputation. Restrictions on cross border data flows and data residency requirements may negatively impact our clients’ and our own ability to transfer personal information to the United States and other countries as part of our provision of services, and in support of our own operations, potentially impacting revenues. In addition, data security events and concerns about privacy abuses by other companies are changing consumer and social expectations for enhanced privacy and data protection. As a result, even the perception of noncompliance, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation. Customers depend on our solutions to assist them to comply with applicable laws, which requires us and our third party providers to constantly monitor applicable laws and to make applicable changes to our solutions. If our solutions have not been updated to enable the customer to comply with applicable laws or we fail to update our solutions on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Customers use on our solutions to assist them to comply with payroll, HR, and other applicable laws for which the solutions are intended for use. We and our third party providers must monitor all applicable laws and as such laws expand, evolve, or are amended in any way, and when new regulations or laws are implemented, we may be required to modify our solutions to assist our customers to comply with such new regulations or laws, which requires an investment of our time and resources. We are also reliant on our third party providers to modify the solutions that they provide to our customers as part of our solutions to comply with changes to such laws and regulations. The number of laws and 13 2021 Form 10-K regulations that we are required to monitor has and will continue to increase as we expand both the geographic regions in which the solutions are offered and the types of products we offer to customers. These risks have become exacerbated as we expand by acquisition and are most acute in the period following the acquisition as we integrate the acquired business and its systems. In the event our solutions fail to enable a customer to comply with applicable laws, we are subject to negative customer experiences, harm to our reputation or loss of customers, claims for any fines, penalties or other damages suffered by our customer, and other financial harm, including fines, penalties or other damages suffered by us directly. If our current or future applications fail to perform properly, our reputation could be adversely affected, our market share could decline, and we could be subject to liability claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our applications are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors that we are not yet aware of. Because of the large amount of data that we collect and manage, it is possible that failures or errors in our systems could result in data loss or corruption or cause the information that we collect to be incomplete or to contain inaccuracies that our customers regard as significant. Any defects in functionality or that cause interruptions in the availability of our applications could result in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm as well as financial costs and regulatory action, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors might be substantial. While we conduct standard due diligence during our acquisition process, these risks are heightened as we grow by acquisition and dedicate resources to integrating the acquisition target’s systems into ours and take on the vulnerabilities that may exist at the acquisition target. Regulatory requirements placed on our software and services could impose increased costs on us, delay or prevent our introduction of new products and services, and impair the function or value of our existing products and services. Our products and services are subject to increasing regulatory requirements, and as these requirements proliferate, we are required to change or adapt to comply. Changing regulatory requirements might render our services obsolete or might block us from developing new products and services. This might in turn impose additional costs upon us to comply or to further develop our products and services. Changing regulatory requirements can make introduction of new services more costly or more time-consuming than we currently anticipate and could even prevent introduction by us of new services or cause the continuation of our existing services to become more costly. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the Internet as a commercial medium. Future changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our applications in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees, or other charges for accessing the Internet or commerce conducted via the Internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of Internet-related commerce or communications generally, resulting in reductions in the demand for Internet-based applications such as ours, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to manage our technical operations infrastructure, our existing customers may experience service outages, and our new customers may experience delays in the implementation of our applications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have experienced and will continue to experience significant growth in the number of users, transactions, and data that our operations infrastructure supports, including the acquisition of new systems via strategic transactions. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our operations infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers and to facilitate the rapid provision of new customer activations and the expansion of existing customer activations. In addition, we need to continue to properly manage our technological operations infrastructure to support version control, changes in hardware and software parameters, and the evolution of our applications. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages, and other performance problems. These problems may be caused by a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, viruses, security attacks, fraud, increased resource consumption from expansion or modification to our Dayforce code, spikes in customer usage, and denial of service issues. The risks of these problems occurring may be exacerbated by our strategic acquisitions, especially in the period following the acquisition as we integrate the acquisition target’s systems into ours, as well as our aging technology infrastructure which in some cases is supported by older platforms. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the 14 2021 Form 10-K cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure requirements, our existing customers may experience service outages that may subject them to financial penalties, causing us to incur financial liabilities and customer losses; and our operations infrastructure may fail to keep pace with increased sales, causing new customers to experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties who provide us with services and license us software for use in or with both our applications and our internal operations. In order to maintain and grow our business, we do, and we anticipate that we will continue to, depend on the continuation and expansion of relationships with third parties who provide us with services. These service provider partners include connected payroll partners, implementation partners, systems integrators, third party sales channel partners, the operators of data centers, and the providers who execute wire transfers and other money movement services to support our customer payroll and tax services. Our agreements with these third party service providers are typically non-exclusive and do not prohibit them from working with our competitors. If any third-party service providers on which we rely to provide us with services experience a disruption, go out of business, are acquired by our competitors, experience a decline in quality, or terminate their relationship with us, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. In addition, we license software from third parties for use in or with both our applications and our internal operations, and the inability to maintain these licenses could result in increased costs, or reduced service levels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent that our applications depend upon the successful operation of third party software in conjunction with our software, any undetected errors or defects in this third party software could prevent the deployment or impair the functionality of our applications, delay new application introductions, and result in a failure of our applications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Once our applications are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization and the support capabilities of our partners to resolve technical issues relating to our applications, as well as our partner’s applications. We or our partners may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services, and we may be limited in our ability to resolve the technical issues our customers have with our technology, or our partner’s technology. We or our partners also may be unable to modify the format of our or our partners’ support services to compete with changes in support services provided by our competitors. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Ultimately, a client could elect to terminate their agreement due to dissatisfaction with support, resulting in lost recurring revenue. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our applications and business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our customers are not satisfied with the implementation and professional services provided by us or our partners, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business depends on the ability to implement our solutions on a timely, accurate, and cost-efficient basis and to provide professional services at the high level demanded by our customers. Implementation and other professional services may be performed by our own staff, by a third party, or by a combination of the two. If a customer is not satisfied with the quality of work performed, or there are inaccuracies or errors in the work delivered, then we could incur additional costs to address the situation, the customer’s dissatisfaction with such services could damage our ability to expand the number of applications subscribed to by that customer or we could be liable for loss or damage suffered as a result, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If a new customer is dissatisfied with implementation, the customer could refuse to go-live, which could result in a delay in our collection of revenue or could result in a customer seeking repayment of its implementation fees or suing us for damages, or could force us to enforce the termination provisions in our customer contracts in order to collect revenue. In addition, 15 2021 Form 10-K negative publicity related to our customer relationships, regardless of its accuracy, may affect our ability to compete for new business with current and prospective customers, which could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We depend on our senior management team, and the loss of one or more key employees or an inability to attract and to retain highly skilled employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our senior management team. Our executive officers, senior management or other key personnel have limited or no notice period applicable to their employment. Therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. Additionally, we do not maintain key employee insurance on any of our executive officers, senior management or key employees. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, senior management or key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for talent is intense, and has become more intense following the onset of the coronavirus disease 2019 ("COVID-19") pandemic, including without limitation for individuals with high levels of experience in designing and developing software and Internet-related services and senior sales executives. We have, from time to time, experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. If our vendors or affiliates initiate payroll-related transactions on behalf of our customers and do not receive funds from the customer sufficient to cover the amounts paid on their behalf, we may suffer significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our payroll and tax processing services involve the movement of significant funds from the account of a customer to its employees and to relevant taxing authorities. Typically, we rely upon third party vendors to initiate payments on behalf of our customers. In certain jurisdictions, where permitted, our affiliates may also initiate payments on behalf of our customers. Under certain circumstances, funds may not be received to cover the transactions that our affiliates and third party vendors have initiated on our customers’ behalf. Additionally, there is a risk that an erroneous payment instruction may trigger inaccurate payments. There is, therefore, a risk that the customer’s funds will be insufficient to cover the amounts already paid on its behalf. Should customers default on their payment obligations in the future, should our affiliates or vendors make erroneous payments on behalf of a customer, should erroneous or defaulted payment recovery be unsuccessful, or should our affiliates or vendors suffer losses from similar issues, we may be required to advance substantial amounts of funds to cover such obligations, or to make our partners whole for any losses they suffer. In such an event, we may be required to seek additional sources of short-term liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, should a customer on whose behalf our affiliate or vendor has initiated a transaction subsequently have financial difficulty or refuse to pay, collection of any funds advanced on its behalf may be difficult and we may suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. For our Dayforce Wallet service, we advance earned net wages and associated tax amounts on behalf of customers in connection with the “on demand pay” payroll feature of the service in order to provide their employees access to earned wages in advance of their standard payroll cycles. A customer may fail to satisfy its obligation to repay us for those advanced monies which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the case of our “on demand pay” service (a service that is offered as part of the Dayforce Wallet), credit is provided to our customers and funds are advanced on the customers’ behalf in order to fund the customers’ employees’ interim earned net wage payroll demands (including associated source and other deductions) with the requirement that the customers will repay the advance on the date of their next ordinary payroll run. These advances may or may not have priority over other creditors of our customers, and our security interest and/or other credit protection measures, if implemented, may be inadequate to make us whole. There is, therefore, a risk that our customers do not pay back the amounts we have already paid on their behalf, and in that event, we may possess limited legal recourse to recoup those funds from our customers. In the event of a customer’s failure to repay us, we may be required to seek additional sources of short-term liquidity, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or suffer credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 16 2021 Form 10-K Customer funds and wage funds of their employees that our trustees and third-party financial institution partners hold are subject to market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. The loss of these funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our trustees (in the case of customer funds held in our U.S. Ceridian Clients’ Funds Trust and our Ceridian Canada Payroll Trust) and our third party financial institution partners (in the case of employee wage funds held on their behalf as part of the U.S. Dayforce Wallet program and certain of our non-U.S. operations) may invest funds in one or more high-quality bank deposits, money market mutual funds, commercial paper, collateralized short-term investments, government securities, as well as highly rated asset-backed, mortgage-backed, municipal, corporate, and bank securities. These assets are subject to varying degrees of general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks. These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility. We are required to fund the payroll and wage funds of our customers and their employees regardless of any loss realized on those investments affecting the principal funds held. In the event of a global financial crisis, such as that experienced in 2008, we could be faced with a severe constriction of the availability of liquidity, which could impact our ability to fund payrolls. Any loss of principal, or inability to access customer funds could have an adverse impact on our cash position and results of operations and could require us to obtain additional sources of liquidity, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our management’s attention, result in additional indebtedness or dilution to our stockholders, and otherwise disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have, and we may in the future seek to acquire or to invest in businesses, applications or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our applications, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses. If we acquire additional businesses, we may incur significant costs to integrate such businesses. Further, we may not be able to integrate the acquired personnel, operations, and technologies successfully or profitably, or to effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. If an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In order to fund acquisitions, we may issue dilutive equity securities or incur additional debt, resulting in an increase our interest payments. A significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to record charges based on this impairment assessment, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, economic and trade sanctions, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and similar laws could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences. Regulators worldwide are exercising heightened scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations. Such heightened scrutiny has resulted in more aggressive investigations and enforcement of such laws and more burdensome regulations, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We are growing our business throughout the world, including in numerous developing economies where companies and government officials are more likely to engage in business practices that are prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act, the anti-corruption provisions of the Australian criminal code, and the U.K. Bribery Act. Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government officials and leaders of political parties, and in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments and, in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, among others. In addition, some of our businesses and entities in the U.S. and a number of other countries in which we operate are and will continue to be subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations. These laws require us to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. 17 2021 Form 10-K We have implemented policies and procedures to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and we are continuously in the process of reviewing, upgrading and enhancing certain of our policies and procedures. However, there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not take actions in violation of our policies for which we may be ultimately responsible, or that our policies and procedures will be adequate or will be determined to be adequate by regulators. Any violations of applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions or anti-money laundering laws or regulations could limit certain of our business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Further, banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses, as a class, to be higher risk customers for money laundering. As a result, our banking partners that assist in processing our money movement transactions may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional material requirements on us. These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks’ internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks that may do business with us, may require us to materially change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a material adverse effect on our results or financial condition. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2021, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses, which, if not utilized, will begin to expire in 2034 and 2022 for federal and state purposes, respectively. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes in any taxable year may be limited if we experience an “ownership change.” A Section 382 “ownership change” generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. Future issuances of our stock could cause an “ownership change.” It is possible that an ownership change could have a material effect on our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a public company, we are required to design and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on the internal controls over financial reporting, which must be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. We have previously identified and reported material weaknesses, and we may identify additional material weaknesses in internal controls in future periods. If we were to have another material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated.  There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Litigation and regulatory investigations aimed at us or resulting from actions of our predecessor may result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation. We face risk of litigation, regulatory investigations, and similar actions in the ordinary course of our business, including the risk of lawsuits and other legal actions relating to breaches of contractual obligations,  tortious claims, employment and labor law matters, securities law claims, or claims related to erroneous transactions or breach of data privacy laws from customers, stockholders, employees or other third parties which could result in fines, penalties, interest, or other damages. Litigation might result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which might materially harm our business, overall financial condition, and operating results.  We may also be subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and book and records examinations, from 18 2021 Form 10-K regulators and other authorities in the geographic markets in which we operate. A substantial liability arising from a lawsuit judgment or settlement or a significant regulatory action against us or a disruption in our business arising from adverse adjudications in proceedings against our directors, officers, or employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results or operations. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby harming our operating results and leading analysts or potential investors to lower their expectations of our performance, which could reduce the trading price of our stock or potentially result in a lawsuit related to the reduced trading price of our stock. Additionally, we are subject to claims and investigations as a result of our predecessor, Control Data Corporation (“CDC”), Ceridian Corporation, and other former entities for whom we are successor-in-interest with respect to assumed liabilities. For example, in September 1989, CDC became party to an environmental matters agreement with Seagate Technology plc (“Seagate”) related to groundwater contamination on a parcel of real estate in Omaha, Nebraska sold by CDC to Seagate. In February 1988, CDC entered into an arrangement with Northern Engraving Corporation and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency in relation to groundwater contamination at a site in Spring Grove, Minnesota. Although we are fully reserved for these groundwater contamination liabilities, we cannot be certain if additional claims, investigations or liabilities related to such predecessor companies will surface. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success and ability to compete depend in part upon our intellectual property. We primarily rely on copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws; trade secret protection; and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights may be ineffective or inadequate. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we  have and will likely be required to continue to spend significant resources to monitor and to protect these rights. Litigation brought to protect and to enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management, with no guarantee of success, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our failure to secure, to protect, and to enforce our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights which could have a material adverse effect on our business. There is considerable intellectual property development activity in our industry. Third parties, including our competitors, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our service offerings and may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may be found to be infringing upon such rights, even if we are unaware of their intellectual property rights. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us or if we decide to settle, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, obtain licenses, modify applications, prevent us from offering our services, or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. We may also be obligated to indemnify our customers, vendors or partners in connection with any such claim or litigation. Even if we were to prevail in such a dispute, any litigation regarding our intellectual property could be costly and time consuming. The use of open source software in our applications may expose us to additional risks and harm our intellectual property rights. Some of our applications include software covered by open source licenses. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate such software into their products or applications. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our applications. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software and to make our proprietary software available under open source licenses if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. In the event that portions of our proprietary software are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected 19 2021 Form 10-K portions of our source code, to re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise to be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and services. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The implementation of new accounting systems or applications could interfere with our business and operations. The implementation of new systems and enhancements may be disruptive to our business and can be time-consuming and divert management’s attention. Any disruptions relating to our systems or any problems with implementation, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations or our ability to accurately report our financial performance on a timely basis, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our outstanding indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit Facility could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to operate our business, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Pursuant to our credit agreement, we are a borrower of (i) a $680.0 million term loan debt facility (the "Term Debt") and (ii) a $300.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") (collectively, the "Senior Secured Credit Facility"). Our Senior Secured Credit Facility is secured substantially by all of our assets. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have important consequences for us, including, without limitation, that: • we may be required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; • our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressures; • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and for general corporate and other purposes may be limited; • our indebtedness may expose us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our borrowings, including and most significantly our borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facility, are at variable rates of interest; and • our indebtedness may prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities as they arise or successfully carrying out our plans to expand our business. Under the terms of the agreements governing our debt facilities, we are required to comply with specified operating covenants and, under certain circumstances, a financial covenant applicable to the Revolving Credit Facility, which may limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. If not cured, an event of default under our Senior Secured Credit Facility could result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable, which would require us, among other things, to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, to sell selected assets, and/or to reduce or to delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt, and any such financing or refinancing might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations or are forced to take additional measures to be able to service our indebtedness, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Aspects of the Capped Calls may not operate as planned and may affect the value of the Convertible Senior Notes and our common stock, and we are subject to counterparty credit risk with respect to the Capped Calls. In March 2021, we issued $575.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 ("Convertible Senior Notes"). In connection with the pricing of the Convertible Senior Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with the option counterparties ("the Capped Calls"). Please refer to for additional information. The Capped Calls are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and/or offset any potential cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal 20 2021 Form 10-K amount of converted Convertible Senior Notes, as the case may be, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. The Capped Calls are complex transactions that are not part of the terms of the Convertible Senior Notes, and may not operate as planned. If the Capped Calls do not operate as we intend, it may have an effect on the price of the Convertible Senior Notes or our common stock. The option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions following any conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes, any repurchase of the Convertible Senior Notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date, any redemption date, or any other date on which the Convertible Senior Notes are retired by us, in each case if we exercise our option to terminate the relevant portion of the Capped Calls. This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Senior Notes, which could affect the ability of a noteholder to convert the Convertible Senior Notes and, to the extent the activity occurs during any observation period related to a conversion of Convertible Senior Notes, could affect the number of shares of common stock, if any, and value of the consideration that a noteholder will receive upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes. If any such Capped Call fails to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock and the value of the Convertible Senior Notes. The option counterparties are financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that they might default under the Capped Calls. Our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. If an option counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at that time under our transactions with that option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many factors, but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated with increases in the market price or the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by an option counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and more dilution than we currently anticipate with respect to our common stock. We can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any option counterparty. Risks associated with the conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under certain circumstances, noteholders may convert their Convertible Senior Notes at their option prior to the scheduled maturities. Upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes, we will be obligated to make cash payments in an amount no less than the principal amount being converted, and any excess of the conversion value over the principal amount will be settled, at the Company’s election, in cash or shares of the Company’s common stock. In addition, noteholders will have the right to require us to repurchase their Convertible Senior Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Convertible Senior Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but not including, the fundamental change repurchase date (as defined in the Indenture under which the Convertible Senior Notes were issued ("Indenture")). There is a risk that we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Convertible Senior Notes surrendered therefor or Convertible Senior Notes being converted. Our failure to repurchase Convertible Senior Notes when the Indenture requires the repurchase or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Convertible Senior Notes as required by the Indenture would constitute a default under the Indenture. A default under the Indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. In addition, even if noteholders do not elect to convert their Convertible Senior Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Convertible Senior Notes as a current, rather than long-term, liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile and investors may lose all or part of their investment. The market price and volume of our common stock trading has experienced, and may continue to experience, wide fluctuations and volatility. Factors that may impact our performance and market price include those discussed elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and others such as: announcements, including filing with the SEC by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans or commercial relationships as well as new services; any major change in our senior management or board of director; sales, or anticipated sales, of our stock, including sales by our officers, directors, and significant stockholders; issuance of new, negative, or changed securities analysts’ reports or 21 2021 Form 10-K recommendations or estimates; investor perceptions of us and the industries in which we or our customers operate; and threatened or actual litigation and governmental investigations. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for shares of our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. Securities litigation against us, regardless of the merits or outcome, could result in substantial costs, damage to our reputation, and divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The issuance of additional stock, including common stock issued upon conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes, will dilute all other stockholders. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions, financings, our equity incentive plans, our Convertible Senior Notes or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. Our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to five hundred million shares of common stock and up to ten million shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue all of these shares that are not already outstanding without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions or opportunities in the future. We may pay for such acquisitions or opportunities, in part or in full, through the issuance of additional equity securities. Further, the conversion of some or all of the Convertible Senior Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of any of the Convertible Senior Notes. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future, investors may not receive any return on investment unless they are able to sell common stock for a price greater than the purchase price. We have never declared nor paid cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which investors have purchased their shares. Anti-takeover protections in our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws or our contractual obligations may discourage or prevent a takeover of our company, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions contained in our fourth amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws as well as provisions of Delaware law could delay or make it more difficult to remove incumbent directors or could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or the replacement of our management, or discourage a potential investor from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market value of our common stock, even if it would benefit our stockholders. In addition, under the agreements governing our credit facilities, a change of control would cause us to be in default or could trigger dilutive or additional expenses. For example, in the event of a change of control default, the administrative agent under our credit facilities would have the right (or, at the direction of lenders holding a majority of the loans and commitments under our credit facilities, the obligation) to accelerate the outstanding loans and to terminate the commitments under our credit facilities, and if so accelerated, we would be required to repay all of our outstanding obligations under our credit facilities. Further, certain provisions in the Convertible Senior Notes and the Indenture could increase the cost of acquiring us or otherwise discourage a third party from acquiring us or removing incumbent management, including in a transaction that noteholders or holders of our common stock may view as favorable. 22 2021 Form 10-K General Risk Factors Our business has been adversely affected and will likely continue to be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic The global spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has created significant global volatility, uncertainty, and economic disruption. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to adversely affect our business, operations, and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors. During 2021, COVID-19 outbreak continued to create significant volatility and uncertainty and economic and financial market disruption. The extent of any impact to our business depends on developments which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the COVID-19 pandemic’s, our ability to sell and to provide our services to our current and future customers, and the ability of our customers to pay for our services or to make us whole for advances of earned net wages and associated tax amounts made on their behalf by us. As we cannot predict the duration or scope of the COVID-19 pandemic, the anticipated negative financial impact to our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price cannot be reasonably estimated, but could be material and could last for an extended period of time. Nevertheless, g iven the global nature of our business we may experience variation in the impact of COVID-19 across geographies in terms of the degree, timing or duration of impact. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital markets and borrowing costs may be adversely affected by a major natural disaster or catastrophic event, including civil unrest, geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attack, the effects of climate change, or pandemics or other public health emergencies such as the recent COVID-19 outbreak, and measures taken in response thereto. In the event of a major disaster or event impacting any of our locations, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our application development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We operate and are subject to tax in multiple jurisdictions. Audits, investigations, and tax proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to income and non-income taxes in multiple jurisdictions. Income tax accounting often involves complex issues, and significant judgment is often required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. We are regularly subject to tax examinations in these jurisdictions during which the tax authorities may challenge our tax positions. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations to determine the appropriateness of our tax reserves as well as our future tax liabilities. In addition, the application of withholding tax, value added tax, goods and services tax, sales tax, and other non-income taxes is not always certain and we may be subject to examinations relating to such withholding or non-income taxes. We believe that our tax positions are reasonable and our tax reserves are adequate to cover any potential liability. However, if any of these tax authorities successfully challenge our positions, we may be liable for additional tax, penalties, and interest in excess of any reserves established, which may have a significant impact on our results and operations and future cash flow. Changes in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States could have a material adverse effect on our previously reported results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”), the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and to interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our previously reported results of operations and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Please refer to , of this report for our assessment of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements. 23 2021 Form 10-K Our debt may be downgraded, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A reduction in the ratings that rating agencies assign to our debt may negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Volatility and weakness in bank and capital markets may adversely affect credit availability and related financing costs for us. Disruptions in the financial markets can also adversely affect our lenders, insurers, customers, and other counterparties. During periods of volatile credit markets, there is risk that lenders, even those with strong balance sheets and sound lending practices, could fail, no longer participate in credit offerings, or refuse to honor their existing legal commitments and obligations to us, including but not limited to, extending credit up to the maximum amount permitted by the Revolving Credit Facility. If our lenders are unable to fund borrowings under their revolving credit commitments or we are unable to borrow or refinance our debt in the financial markets, it could be difficult to obtain sufficient funding to execute our business strategy or to meet our liquidity needs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding industry outlook, our expectations for the future of our business, and our liquidity and capital resources as well as other non-historical statements. These statements are based on current expectations and are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties described in “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Statements.” Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by these forward-looking statements. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations covers fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 items and year-over-year comparisons between fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020. Discussions of fiscal 2019 items and year-over-year comparisons between fiscal 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in that was filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021. Overview Ceridian is a global HCM software company. We categorize our solutions into two categories: Cloud and Bureau solutions. Cloud revenue is generated from HCM solutions that are delivered via two cloud offerings: Dayforce, our flagship cloud HCM platform, and Powerpay, a cloud HR and payroll solution for the Canadian small business market. We also continue to support customers using our legacy North America Bureau solutions, which we generally stopped actively selling to new customers following the acquisition of Dayforce, and customers using our acquired Bureau solutions which we also intend to stop actively selling to new customers on a stand-alone basis. We invest in maintenance and necessary updates to support our Bureau customers and continue to migrate them to Dayforce. Dayforce provides HR, payroll, benefits, workforce management, and talent management functionality. Our platform is used by organizations, regardless of industry or size, to optimize management of the entire employee lifecycle, including attracting, engaging, paying, deploying, and developing their people. Dayforce was built as a single application from the ground up that combines a modern, consumer-grade user experience with proprietary application architecture, including a single employee record and a rules engine spanning all areas of HCM. Dayforce provides continuous real-time calculations across all modules to enable, for example, payroll administrators access to data through the entire pay period, and managers access to real-time data to optimize work schedules. Our platform is designed to make work life better for our customers and their employees by improving HCM decision-making processes, streamlining workflows, revealing strategic organizational insights, and simplifying legislative compliance. The platform is designed to ease administrative work for both employees and managers, creating opportunities for companies to increase employee engagement. We are a founder-led organization, and our culture combines the agility and innovation of a start-up with a history of deep domain and operational expertise. Dayforce Wallet is a digital wallet for customers' employees on the Dayforce platform, which was launched in the U.S. in 2020 and Canada in 2021. The Dayforce Wallet gives our customers’ employees greater control over their financial well-being by providing them with instant access to their earnings. This on-demand pay feature allows employees more choice over when they get paid by making any day payday. Dayforce Wallet enables workers to access their already-earned wages anytime during the pay period, net of taxes, withholdings and other payroll deductions. Leveraging Dayforce’s continuous pay calculations, Dayforce Wallet processes a same-day payroll each time a worker requests their pay. The solution is compliant with federal, state, and local remittances and requires no changes to payroll processing including the funding, timing, and close-out of pay. The on-demand wages are loaded onto a paycard, which customers’ employees can use anywhere credit or debit cards are accepted, generating interchange fee revenue. The Dayforce Wallet mobile app makes it easy for customers’ employees to check their pay deposits, account balance and transaction history. As of December 31, 2021, we had more than 950 customers signed onto Dayforce Wallet with over 400 customers live on the product. As of December 31, 2021, the average registration rate increased to 33% of all eligible employees. 27 2021 Form 10-K We sell Dayforce through our direct sales force on a subscription per-employee, per-month (“PEPM”) basis. Our subscriptions are typically structured with an initial fixed term of between three and five years, with evergreen renewal thereafter. Dayforce can serve customers of all sizes, ranging from 100 to over 100,000 employees. We have rapidly grown the Dayforce platform to 5,434 live Dayforce customers*, representing approximately 5.1 million active global users* as of December 31, 2021. In 2021, we added 528 net new live Dayforce customers. Our customers vary across industries, and no single customer constituted more than 1% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. Our annual Cloud revenue retention rate continues to exceed 95% due to our focus on solving complex problems and our superior customer experience. Please see below under for further explanation of our Cloud retention rate. Our Business Model Our business model focuses on supporting the rapid growth of Dayforce and maximizing the lifetime value of our Dayforce customer relationships. Due to our subscription model, where we recognize subscription revenues ratably over the term of the subscription period, and our high customer retention rates, we have a high level of visibility into our future revenues. The profitability of a customer to our business depends, in large part, on how long they have been a customer. We estimate that it takes approximately two years before we are able to recover our implementation, customer acquisition, and other direct costs on a new Dayforce customer contract. Over the lifetime of the customer relationship, we have the opportunity to realize additional PEPM revenue, both as the customer grows or rolls out the Dayforce solution to additional employees, and also by selling additional functionality to existing customers that do not currently utilize our full platform. We also incur costs to manage the account, to retain customers, and to sell additional functionality. These costs, however, are significantly less than the costs initially incurred to acquire and to take customers live. Revenues We generate recurring revenues primarily from recurring fees charged for the use of our Cloud solutions, Dayforce and Powerpay, as well as from our Bureau solutions. We also generate professional services and other revenue associated primarily with the work performed to assist customers with the planning, design, and implementation of their cloud-based solution. Our solutions are typically provided through long-term customer relationships that result in a high level of recurring revenue. We also generate recurring revenue from investment income on our Cloud and Bureau customer funds before such funds are remitted to taxing authorities, customer employees, or other third parties. We refer to this investment income as float revenue. For Dayforce, we primarily charge monthly recurring fees on a PEPM basis, generally one-month in advance of service, based on the number and type of solutions provided to the customer and the number of employees and other users at the customer. Our standard Dayforce contracts are generally for a three to five-year period. The average time it takes to implement Dayforce typically ranges from three months for smaller customers to twelve months for larger customers. We begin to generate recurring revenue when we provide a production instance to the customer, generally when they are ready to go live. We also provide outsourced human resource solutions to certain of our Dayforce customers, which are tailored to meet their individual needs, and entail performing the duties of a customer’s human resources department, including payroll processing, time and labor management, performance management, and recruiting, as needed. The Powerpay offering serves our small market Canadian customers. The typical Powerpay customer has fewer than 20 employees, and the majority of the revenue is generated from recurring fees charged on a per-employee, per-process basis. Typical processes include the customer’s payroll runs, year-end tax packages, and delivery of customers’ remittance advices or checks. Powerpay can typically be implemented on a remote basis within one to three days, at which point we start receiving recurring fees. For our Bureau solutions, we typically charge recurring fees on a per-process basis. Typical processes include the customer’s payroll runs, year-end tax packages, and delivery of customers’ remittance advices or checks. In addition to customers who use our payroll services, certain customers use our tax filing services on a stand-alone basis. Our outsourced human resource solutions are tailored to meet the needs of individual customers, and entail our contracting to perform many of the duties of a customer’s human resources department, including payroll processing, time and labor management, performance management, and recruiting. We also perform individual services for customers, such as check printing, wage attachment and disbursement, and ACA management. *Excluding the 2021 acquisitions of Ascender and ADAM HCM 28 2021 Form 10-K COVID-19 Pandemic In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 to be a pandemic. The global spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has continued to create significant global volatility, uncertainty, and economic disruption. We have experienced and may continue to experience curtailed customer demand, primarily as a result of declining employment levels at our customers in certain sectors, such as retail and hospitality, as well as lower customer utilization of professional services, due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, the federal funds rate cuts by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the overnight rate target by the Bank of Canada have had negative effects on our float revenue.  The broader implications of the pandemic on our results of operations and overall financial performance continue to generate uncertainty. Please refer to the “ ” section below for further discussion of the financial impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, and to , ” for further discussion of the potential impact of the pandemic on our business. How We Ass ess Our Performance In assessing our performance, we consider a variety of performance indicators in addition to revenue and net income (loss). Set forth below is a description of our key performance measures. (a) Excluding the 2021 acquisitions of Ascender and ADAM HCM. (b) Annual Cloud revenue retention rate and Cloud ARR are calculated on an annual basis, and the disclosure reflects data as of the most recent fiscal year end. Please see below for further explanation. (c) Excluding float revenue, the impact of lower employment levels due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Ascender and ADAM HCM revenue, and on a constant currency basis. (d) This is a Non-GAAP financial measure. For Non-GAAP financial measures with a directly comparable financial measure, a reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure has been provided in the “ ” section. An explanation of these measures is included below. 29 2021 Form 10-K Live Dayforce Customers We use the number of live Dayforce customers as an indicator of future revenue and the overall performance of the business and to assess the performance of our implementation services. As shown in the table below, the number of customers live on Dayforce has increased from 482 as of December 31, 2012 to 5,434 as of December 31, 2021*. For 2021, our 5,434 live Dayforce customers represented approximately 5.1 million active global users*. We market Dayforce to customers of all sizes, including small (under 500 employees), major (500 to 5,999 employees), and enterprise (6,000 or more employees). For 2021, small businesses accounted for 10% of the total number of active global users, major businesses accounted for 49% of the total number of active global users, and enterprise businesses accounted for 41% of the total number of active global users*. In 2021, we continued to grow our global customer base, particularly in the Enterprise market, which aligns with our strategic growth lever to expand within this segment. In addition to the increase in the number of Enterprise customers, we are successfully selling the broader HCM suite. The following table sets forth the number of live Dayforce customers* at the end of the years presented: Cloud Annualized Recurring Revenue (“ARR”) We derive the majority of our Cloud revenues from recurring fees, primarily PEPM subscription charges. We also derive recurring revenue from fees related to the rental and maintenance of clocks, charges for once-a-year services, such as year-end tax statements, and investment income on our customer funds before such funds are remitted to taxing authorities, customer employees, or other third parties (often referred to as “float revenue”). To calculate Cloud ARR, we start with recurring revenue at year end, excluding revenue from Ascender and ADAM HCM, subtract the once-a-year charges, annualize the revenue for customers live for less than a full year to reflect the revenue that would have been realized if the customer had been live for a full year, and add back the once-a-year charges. We set annual targets for Cloud ARR and monitor progress toward those targets on a quarterly basis. *Excluding the 2021 acquisitions of Ascender and ADAM HCM. 30 2021 Form 10-K Annual Cloud Revenue Retention Rate Our annual Cloud revenue retention rate measures the percentage of revenues that we retain from our existing Cloud customers. We use this retention rate as an indicator of customer satisfaction and future revenues. We calculate the annual Cloud revenue retention rate as a percentage, excluding Ascender and ADAM HCM, where the numerator is the Cloud ARR for the prior year, less the Cloud ARR from lost Cloud customers during that year; and the denominator is the Cloud ARR for the prior year. Our annual Cloud revenue retention rate has been 95% or above for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019. We set annual targets for Cloud revenue retention rate and monitor progress toward those targets on a quarterly basis by reviewing known and anticipated customer losses. Our Cloud revenue retention rate may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the mix of Cloud solutions used by customers, the level of customer satisfaction, and changes in the number of users live on our Cloud solutions. Dayforce Recurring Revenue Per Customer Our Dayforce recurring revenue per customer is an indicator of the average size of our Dayforce recurring customer. To calculate Dayforce recurring revenue per customer, we start with Dayforce recurring revenue on a constant currency basis by applying the same exchange rate to all comparable periods for the trailing twelve months and exclude float revenue, the impact of lower employment levels due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and Ascender and ADAM HCM revenue. This amount is divided by the number of live Dayforce customers at the end of the trailing twelve month period, excluding Ascender and ADAM HCM. We set quarterly targets for Dayforce recurring revenue per customer and monitor progress toward those targets on a quarterly basis. Our Dayforce recurring revenue per customer may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the number of live Dayforce customers and the number of customers purchasing the full HCM suite. We have not reconciled the Dayforce recurring revenue per customer because there is no directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Constant Currency Revenue We present revenue on a constant currency basis to assess how our underlying business performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. We believe this non-GAAP financial measure is useful to management and investors. We have calculated revenue on a constant currency basis by applying the average foreign exchange rate in effect during the comparable prior period. Please refer to the “ ” section for a reconciliation of this Non-GAAP financial measure. The average U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate was $1.25, with a daily range of $1.20 to $1.29 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021, compared to $1.34, with a daily range of $1.27 to $1.45 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2021, the U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate was $1.27. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin We believe that EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP financial measures, are useful to management and investors as supplemental measures to evaluate our overall operating performance. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are components of our management incentive plan and are used by management to assess performance and to compare our operating performance to our competitors. We define EBITDA as net income or loss before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, and Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, as adjusted to exclude foreign exchange gain (loss), share-based compensation expense and related employer taxes, severance charges, restructuring consulting fees, and certain other non-recurring items. Adjusted EBITDA margin is determined by calculating the percentage that Adjusted EBITDA is of total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are helpful in highlighting management performance trends because EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin exclude the results of decisions that are outside the normal course of our business operations. Please refer to the “ ” section below for a discussion of EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin. 31 2021 Form 10-K Recent Events Acquisitions On September 13, 2019, we completed the purchase of 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Lusworth Holding Pty Ltd. (“RITEQ”) for $20.1 million. RITEQ is an Australian-based workforce management solutions provider, with operations within Australia, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom. On May 29, 2020, we completed the purchase of 100% of the outstanding shares of Excelity Global Solutions Pte. Ltd. (“Excelity”) for $77.2 million. Excelity is a human capital management service provider in the APJ region. On March 1, 2021, we completed the purchase of 100% of the outstanding shares of Ascender HCM Pty Limited (“Ascender”) for $359.6 million. Ascender is a payroll and HR solutions provider in the APJ region. On April 30, 2021, we acquired 100% of the outstanding shares of O5 Systems, Inc. dba Ideal (“Ideal”) for $41.4 million. Ideal is a talent intelligence software provider based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. On October 4, 2021, we completed the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of DataFuzion HCM, Inc. (“DataFuzion”), for $12.5 million in cash consideration and future contingent consideration payments. DataFuzion designs, implements, and supports customer specific data solutions that integrate HCM and ERP systems on their FUZE platform. On December 3, 2021, we completed the acquisition of 100% of the outstanding interests in ATI ROW, LLC and ADAM HCM MEXICO, S. de R.L. de C.V. (collectively, "ADAM HCM") for $34.3 million. ADAM HCM is a payroll and HCM company in Latin America. Financing and Other In March 2021, we issued $575.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026. In connection with the pricing of the Convertible Senior Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with the option counterparties. On December 15, 2021, we sold our St. Petersburg, Florida facility for $40 million, resulting in a gain on the sale of $19.1 million, which was recognized in the consolidated statements of operations within selling, general, and administrative expense. 32 2021 Form 10-K Results o f Operations Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented: (a) Net profit margin is determined by calculating the percentage that net (loss) income is of total revenue. (b) For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, please refer to the “ ” section. 33 2021 Form 10-K Revenue . The following table sets forth certain information regarding our consolidated revenues for periods presented: (a) Please refer to “ ” section for additional information on our constant currency revenue, a non-GAAP financial measure. 34 2021 Form 10-K The COVID-19 pandemic has had an adverse impact on our revenue streams during the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily in the form of lower employment levels at our customers, lower float revenue resulting from reductions in the U.S. Federal Reserve federal funds rate and the Bank of Canada overnight rate target, lower average float balances for our customer funds, and lower demand for professional services, among other effects. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we estimate the impact of lower employment levels at our customers was an approximately $21 million reduction in our revenue, of which approximately $17 million was related to Dayforce and approximately $4 million was related to Powerpay. Total revenue increased $181.7 million, or 21.6%, to $1,024.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $842.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in Cloud revenue of $143.7 million, or 19.7%, from $729.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, to $873.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The Cloud revenue increase was primarily due to an increase of $133.2 million, or 23.0%, in Cloud recurring revenue, and $10.5 million, or 7.0%, in Cloud professional services and other revenue. Cloud revenue growth was driven by both an increase in customers live on the Dayforce platform and an increase in recurring revenue per customer, as well as the Cloud revenue generated from acquired businesses during 2021. Excluding float revenue and on a constant currency basis, total revenue grew 22.2% reflecting a 19.8% increase in Cloud revenue and a 37.5% increase in Bureau revenue. Excluding float revenue and on a constant currency basis, Cloud revenue growth reflected a 24.0% increase in Cloud recurring revenue and a 4.9% increase in Cloud professional services and other revenue. Excluding float revenue and on a constant currency basis, Dayforce revenue increased 21.8%, reflecting a 27.1% increase in Dayforce recurring revenue and a 5.1% increase in Dayforce professional services and other revenue. Excluding float revenue and on a constant currency basis, Powerpay revenue increased 3.2%. Dayforce revenue grew 21.1%, and Powerpay revenue increased 8.2% in 2021 as compared to 2020. On a constant currency basis, Dayforce revenue increased 19.3%, and Powerpay revenue increased 1.4% for the year-ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Powerpay is designed primarily for small market Canadian customers, which typically have fewer than 20 employees, and we believe those customers have been more adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic than larger Dayforce customers. In addition to the increase in Cloud revenue, Bureau revenue increased by $38.0 million, or 33.6%. The increase is primarily due to Bureau revenue associated with our recent Ascender and Excelity acquisitions. The increase was partially offset by a reduction in Bureau revenue associated with our legacy technology of the North American platforms as we continue to sunset the technology. For the year ended December 31, 2021, recurring revenue from Bureau payroll customers accounted for $103.4 million, including $70.3 million from our two recent acquisitions in APJ, and Bureau stand-alone tax recurring revenue accounted for $34.4 million, compared to $73.0 million and $37.5 million in the prior year for payroll and stand-alone tax customers, respectively. Float revenue included in recurring revenue was $41.1 million and $52.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Float revenue allocated to Cloud revenue was $37.8 million and $45.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The average float balance for our customer funds for the year ended December 31, 2021, was $3,889.5 million, compared to $3,240.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. On a constant currency basis, the average float balance for our customer funds increased 17.4% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to year ended December 31, 2020. The average yield was 1.07% during the year ended December 31, 2021, a decline of 54 basis points compared to the average yield for the year ended December 31, 2020. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, approximately 35% of our average float balance consisted of customer funds outside of the US., primarily our Canadian customers. Cost of revenue . Total cost of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, was $641.9 million, an increase of $140.7 million, or 28.1%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Recurring cost of revenue increased by $49.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to additional costs related to global expansion, including Ascender and Excelity costs, which are primarily classified as Bureau. Additionally, the increase is due to costs to support the growing Dayforce customer base. The increase in cost of revenue for professional services and other of $30.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, was primarily due to costs incurred to take new customers live. Product development and management expense increased $50.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase reflects increases in personnel costs as well as share-based compensation. Excluding the impact of share-based compensation and related employer taxes, and severance expense, product development and management expense would have increased by $41.9 million. This increase reflects additional personnel costs as we work to build out the Dayforce Wallet and our international offerings. For the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2020, our investment in software development was $131.7 million and $78.3 million, 35 2021 Form 10-K respectively, consisting of $81.1 million and $39.6 million of research and development expense, which is included within product development and management expense, and $50.6 million and $38.7 million of capitalized software development, respectively. Please refer to for further discussion of our accounting policy for capitalizing internally developed software costs. Depreciation and amortization expense associated with cost of revenue increased by $10.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, as we continue to capitalize Dayforce related and other development costs and subsequently amortize those costs. Gross profit and gross margin. Total gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2021, increased by $41.0 million, or 12.0%, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The $41.0 million increase in gross profit was primarily attributable to the $133.2 million increase in Cloud recurring revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The following table presents total gross margin and solution gross margins for the periods presented: Total gross margin is defined as total gross profit as a percentage of total revenue, inclusive of product development and management costs as well as depreciation and amortization associated with cost of revenue. Gross margin for each solution in the table above is defined as total revenue less cost of revenue for the applicable solution as a percentage of total revenue for that related solution, exclusive of any product development and management or depreciation and amortization cost allocations. Cloud recurring gross margin was 72.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 71.2% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Excluding float revenue, Cloud recurring gross margin was 70.7% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 68.7% for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in Cloud recurring gross margin reflects an increase in the proportion of Dayforce customers live for more than two years, which increased from 76% as of December 31, 2020 to 80% as of December 31, 2021, and was also attributable to consistent configuration that has enabled us to realize economies of scale in hosting and customer support. Bureau recurring gross margin declined from 58.0% for the year ended December 31, 2020, to 53.0% for the year ended December 31, 2021 reflecting lower associated float revenue and a higher proportion of customer support costs to support the end-of-life process of our legacy Bureau payroll services, as well as lower margins on acquired Bureau services for Excelity and Ascender. Professional services and other gross margin was (12.2)% for the year ended December 31, 2021, declining from (7.5)% for the year ended December 31, 2020, reflecting additional costs incurred to take new customers live as well as expansion of our capabilities to serve international customers. Selling, general, and administrative expense. Selling, general, and administrative expense increased $84.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Excluding the impact of share-based compensation and related employer taxes, severance expense, and certain other non-recurring items, selling, general, and administrative expenses would have increased $85.6 million. This adjusted increase of $85.6 million was due to a $48.5 million increase in sales and marketing expenses and a $37.1 million increase in general and administrative expense, both of which are primarily driven by employee-related costs. The increase in sales and marketing expense aligns with our growth initiatives. The increase in general and administrative expense is also driven by an increase in amortization expense associated with the intangible assets recognized in relation to our recent acquisitions, partially offset by the gain on sale of our office facility in St. Peterburg, Florida. Please refer to the section for additional information on the excluded items. Interest expense, net. Interest expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2021, was $35.9 million, compared to $25.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. This $10.8 million increase in interest expense, net was primarily due to interest on our Convertible Senior Notes that were issued in March 2021. 36 2021 Form 10-K Other expense, net. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, other expense, net of $18.9 million and $2.7 million, respectively, was comprised of net periodic pension expense, as well as foreign currency translation expense in 2021 compared to foreign currency translation income in 2020. Income tax benefit. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had income tax benefit of $14.9 million and $16.0 million, respectively. The $1.1 million reduction in tax benefit was primarily due to a tax increase of $8.2 million attributed to the base erosion anti-abuse tax (BEAT) in the U.S., a $4.0 million increase attributed to share-based compensation, a $4.0 million increase attributed to international tax rate differences, and other increases of $4.6 million, partially offset by a $14.8 million tax benefit from current operations, and a $4.9 million tax benefit attributable to U.S. state tax. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to reflect the net deferred tax assets that we believe will be realized. As of December 31, 2021, we will continue to record a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets including some state net operating loss carryovers and tax basis intangibles. Net loss. Net loss was $75.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in net loss is primarily due to higher share-based compensation, lower employment levels at our customers and lower float revenue income due to the COVID-19 pandemic, investments in product development, selling capabilities, and business acquisitions to support our growth initiatives in 2021, partially offset by the gain of $19.1 million on the sale of our St. Petersburg, Florida facility. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, net profit margin was (7.4)% and (0.5)%, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA . Adjusted EBITDA increased by $3.5 million to $162.5 million, for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to the increase in cloud recurring margin, partially offset by the increase in sales and marketing and product development and management expense as well as the reduction in float revenue. Adjusted EBITDA margin declined to 15.9% in 2021 from 18.9% in 2020. Adjusted EBITDA, excluding float revenue, increased $14.7 million to $121.4 million, for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Please refer to the section for a discussion and reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin and additional information on the excluded items. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary sources of liquidity are our existing cash and equivalents, cash provided by operating activities, availability under our Revolving Credit Facility, and proceeds from debt issuance and equity offerings. As of December 31, 2021, we had cash and equivalents of $367.5 million and there was no amount drawn on our Revolving Credit Facility of $300 million. Our primary liquidity needs are related to funding of general business requirements, including the payment of interest and principal on our debt, capital expenditures, product development, and funding Dayforce Wallet on demand pay requests. We have made investments in businesses or acquisitions of companies, which are also liquidity needs. Our total debt balance was $1,242.5 million as of December 31, 2021. Please refer to to our consolidated financial statements and section below for further information on our debt. On February 26, 2021, we elected to borrow $295.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility to fund our acquisition of Ascender on March 1, 2021. We repaid the $295.0 million draw on March 5, 2021 with proceeds from the issuance of our Convertible Senior Notes. On April 2, 2020, we elected to borrow $295.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility as a precautionary measure to increase our cash position and to preserve financial flexibility, given the uncertainty in the global capital markets resulting from the initial onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. We repaid the $295.0 million draw on December 8, 2020. In March 2021, we issued $575.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026. The total net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchase discounts and issuance costs, were $561.8 million. In connection with the Convertible Senior Notes, we entered into capped call transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution of our common stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and/or offset any cash payments we could be required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Convertible Senior Notes. We used an aggregate amount of $45.0 million of the net proceeds of the Convertible Senior Notes to purchase the Capped Calls. We used the remainder of the net proceeds from the offering (i) to repay $295.0 million principal amount under the Revolving Credit Facility and pay related accrued interest and (ii) for general corporate purposes. On February 19, 2020, we completed the first amendment to the Senior Secured Credit Facility, in which the Term Debt interest rate was reduced from LIBOR plus 3.00% to LIBOR plus 2.50%. Further, the interest rate trigger under the applicable rating by Moody’s Investor Service was removed by the first amendment. 37 2021 Form 10-K On December 15, 2021, we completed the second amendment to the Senior Secured Credit Facility, in which the maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility was extended from April 30, 2023 to January 29, 2025. We believe that our cash flow from operations, availability under our Revolving Credit Facility, and available cash and equivalents will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. Dayforce Wallet on demand pay requests are currently funded from our operating cash balances, until it is reimbursed by the customers through their normal payroll funding cycles. We evaluate the creditworthiness of each customer for the Dayforce Wallet feature. We anticipate that to the extent that we require additional liquidity, it will be funded through the issuance of equity, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, or a combination thereof. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain this additional liquidity on reasonable terms, or at all. Additionally, our liquidity and our ability to meet our obligations and to fund our capital requirements and Dayforce Wallet on demand pay requests are also dependent on our future financial performance, which is subject to general economic, financial, and other factors that are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available from additional indebtedness or otherwise to meet our liquidity needs. If we decide to pursue one or more significant acquisitions, we may incur additional debt or sell additional equity to finance such acquisitions, which would result in additional expenses or dilution. Our customer funds are held and invested with the primary objectives being to protect the principal balance and to ensure adequate liquidity to meet cash flow requirements. Please refer to for further discussion of these funds. Statements of Cash Flows Changes in cash flows due to purchases of customer fund marketable securities and proceeds from the sale or maturity of customer fund marketable securities, as well as the carrying value of customer fund accounts as of period end dates can vary significantly due to several factors, including the specific day of the week the period ends, which impacts the timing of funds collected from customers and payments made to satisfy customer obligations to employees, taxing authorities, and others. The customer funds are fully segregated from our operating cash accounts and are evaluated and tracked separately by management. The table below summarizes the activity within the consolidated statements of cash flows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $48.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily attributed to a net loss of $75.4 million offset by the net impact of adjustments for certain non-cash items of $165.2 million, including $113.4 million of non-cash share-based compensation expense, and $77.5 million of depreciation and amortization. Additionally, there were net working capital reductions of $41.0 million. The net working capital reductions included a $34.8 million increase in trade and other receivables, a $12.3 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets, a $11.8 million decrease in working capital related to other assets and liabilities, and a $9.3 million decrease in accounts payable and other accrued expenses. Net cash used in operating activities was $30.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily attributed to net changes in working capital that resulted in a $161.1 million reduction in cash and a net loss of $4.0 million, partially offset by the net impact of adjustments for certain non-cash items of $134.9 million, including $65.8 million 38 2021 Form 10-K of non-cash share-based compensation expense, $51.8 million of depreciation and amortization, and $16.8 million of lease abandonment costs. Net changes in working capital were primarily attributable to a $104.0 million reduction in liabilities for employee compensation and benefits, primarily due to $106.9 million in pension contributions, $32.0 million decrease in working capital related to other assets and liabilities, a $12.0 million increase in trade and other receivables, and a $6.8 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets. Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities was $711.1 million, related to acquisition costs, net of cash acquired, of $409.5 million, net purchases of customer funds marketable securities of $275.8 million, and capital expenditures of $63.7 million. Our capital expenditures included $52.2 million for software and technology and $11.5 million for property and equipment. During the year ended December 31, 2020, net cash provided by investing activities was $38.8 million, related to net proceeds from customer funds marketable securities of $156.9 million, partially offset by capital expenditures of $59.8 million and acquisition costs, net of cash acquired, of $58.3 million. Our capital expenditures included $41.7 million for software and technology and $18.1 million for property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $407.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021. This cash inflow was primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuance of our Convertible Senior Notes of $561.8 million, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under share-based compensation plans of $95.4 million, partially offset by the net decrease in our customer funds obligations of $195.7 million, and payments on our long-term debt obligations of $7.8 million. Net cash provided by financing activities was $565.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. This cash inflow was primarily attributable to the net increase in our customer funds obligations of $483.6 million, and proceeds from the issuance of common stock under share-based compensation plans of $91.7 million, partially offset by payments on our long-term debt obligations of $10.0 million. Backlog and Seasonality Backlog is equivalent to our remaining performance obligations, which represents contracted revenue for recurring and fixed price professional services, primarily implementation services, that has not yet been recognized, including deferred revenue and unbilled amounts that will be recognized as revenue in future periods. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $1,118.5 million of revenue is expected to be recognized over the next three years from remaining performance obligations. For a discussion of seasonality, please refer to of this Form 10-K. Our In debtedness Our primary liquidity needs are related to funding of general business requirements, including the payment of interest and principal on our debt, capital expenditures, product development, and funding Dayforce Wallet. From time to time, we have made investments in businesses or acquisitions of companies, which are also liquidity needs.  We believe our current sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for the foreseeable future. We anticipate that to the extent that we require additional liquidity, it will be funded through the issuance of equity, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, or a combination thereof.  During 2021 and 2020, we incurred additional debt in the form of draws on our Revolving Credit Facility, which was subsequently repaid, and issuance of our Convertible Senior Notes for purposes of either (i) conserving our liquidity position during the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic, and (ii) general corporate purposes, including acquisitions of companies. Senior Secured Credit Facility On April 30, 2018, we entered into a credit agreement pursuant to which the lenders agreed to provide Senior Secured Credit Facility, consisting of the Term Debt in the original principal amount of $680.0 million and a $300.0 million Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility may, at our option, be made available in United States Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Euros and/or Pounds Sterling; up to $70.0 million may, at our option, be made available for letters of 39 2021 Form 10-K credit and $100.0 million may, at our option, be made available for swingline loans (denominated in Canadian Dollars and/or United States Dollars). The Term Debt will mature on April 30, 2025. We are required to make annual amortization payments in respect of the Term Debt in an amount equal to 1.00% of the original principal amount thereof, payable in equal quarterly installments of 0.25% of the original principal amount of the first lien term debt. On December 15, 2021, we completed the second amendment to our Senior Secured Credit Facility, which extended the maturity of the Revolving Credit Facility from April 30, 2023 to January 29, 2025. The Revolving Credit Facility does not require amortization payments. Convertible Senior Notes In March 2021, we issued $575.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026. The total net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchase discounts and issuance costs, were $561.8 million. In connection with the Convertible Senior Notes, we entered into capped call transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution of our common stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes and/or offset any cash payments we could be required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted Notes. We used an aggregate amount of $45.0 million of the net proceeds of the Convertible Senior Notes to purchase the Capped Calls. We used the remainder of the net proceeds from the offering (i) to repay $295.0 million principal amount under the Revolving Credit Facility and pay related accrued interest and (ii) for general corporate purposes. For an additional description of the Senior Secured Credit Facility and the Senior Convertible Notes, please refer to to our consolidated financial statements. Contractual Obligations Our future contractual obligations generally consist of long-term debt, leases, retirement plans, and vendor payments.  Our long-term debt obligations are described in to our consolidated financial statements, and the section above. As of December 31, 2021, all of our facilities are leased. Most of these leases contain renewal options and require payments for taxes, insurance, and maintenance. We also lease equipment for use in our business. We ceased use of certain leased facilities during 2021 and 2020 and recognized lease abandonment charges within our consolidated statements of operations; however, we are still required to make future payments under the existing lease terms.  Refer to to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our leases. Payments of retirement plan obligations include employer commitments to fund our defined benefit and postretirement plans and do not include estimated future benefit payments to participants expected to be made from liquidation of the assets in our defined benefit plan trusts. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we contributed $105.0 million to our largest U.S. pension plan, satisfying all expected contributions for the foreseeable future for this defined benefit plan. As of December 31, 2021, our defined benefit pension plans had a fair value of the plans’ assets that exceeded the projected benefit obligation by $1.6 million and our postretirement benefit plan had a projected benefit obligation that exceeded the fair value of the plans’ assets by $12.6 million. We expect to satisfy these remaining obligations through investment income from and appreciation in the fair value of plan assets and from future employer contributions.  Refer to to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of our employee benefit plans. The amount of our future contractual obligation to vendors as of December 31, 2021 was not material. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements and related notes, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements and related notes requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Certain of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment by management in selecting the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. These judgments are based on our historical experience, terms of existing contracts, our evaluation of trends in the industry, information provided by our customers, and information available from other outside sources, as appropriate. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an on-going basis. Our actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following are our critical accounting estimates: 40 2021 Form 10-K Revenue Recognition Description: We recognize revenue for professional services and cloud subscription services performance obligations based on an allocation of the total transaction price to each performance obligation using the respective stand-alone selling prices (“SSP”). This can result in revenue being recognized in an amount that exceeds the amount we are contractually allowed to bill our customer as of a certain point in time, resulting in the recognition of a contract asset up until the period at which billings are equal to or exceed revenue recognition. We recognized $160.2 million of cloud professional services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, and the related contract assets were $62.7 million as of December 31, 2021. Judgments and Uncertainties: The determination of our stand-alone selling price for the performance obligations requires us to make assumptions based on market conditions and observable inputs, as well as an estimate of the total professional service hours expected to be incurred in connection with each customer implementation. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change: The consideration allocated to professional services performed to activate a new customer is recognized as professional services revenues based on the proportion of total work performed to date compared to an estimation of total work expected to complete the implementation project for that customer account. To the extent this consideration exceeds the customer billings, a contract asset would be recognized. An increase or decrease in the estimation of total work expected to complete the implementation would impact the amount of consideration allocated to each of the performance obligations as well as the timing of revenue recognition, as professional services revenue related to implementation activities is generally recognized at the beginning of the contract. Business Combinations Description: We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting. We allocate the purchase price of an acquired business to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date with the excess recorded as goodwill. Judgments and Uncertainties: The acquisition method of accounting requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities. Fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired is determined through established valuation techniques, such as the income, cost or market approach. Generally, we use third-party valuation experts to assist in certain fair value determinations. The fair value measurements of identifiable intangibles are based on available historical information and expectations and assumptions about the future. Significant assumptions used to value identifiable intangible assets may include projected revenue growth, discount rates, royalty rates, customer attrition rates, and other factors. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. All acquired assets were determined to have useful lives. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change: In 2021, we acquired Ascender, Ideal, DataFuzion, and ADAM HCM for $359.6 million, $41.4 million, $17.9 million, and $34.3 million, respectively, which included the acquisition of $7.1 million of trade names, $84.1 million of customer relationships, and $78.2 million in developed technology. We utilized third-party valuation specialists to perform the valuation of certain assets and liabilities acquired for each acquisition. Trade Names : From the Ascender, Ideal, and ADAM HCM acquisitions, we acquired trade names, which were determined to have a total fair value of $7.1 million using the relief from royalty method. Key assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the trade names using this method included revenue projections, royalty rates, and discount rates. Customer Relationships: From the Ascender, Ideal, and ADAM HCM acquisitions, we acquired customer relationships, which were determined to have a total fair value of $84.1 million using the Multi-Period Excess Earnings Method (“MPEEM”) a form of the income approach, or variations of the MPEEM, such as the distributor method. Assumptions used in valuing these assets included future earnings projections, customer attrition rates, and discount rates, among others. Developed Technology: From the Ascender, Ideal, DataFuzion, and ADAM HCM acquisitions, we acquired developed technology, which were determined to have a total fair value of $78.2 million using various methods, such as the relief from royalty method and the MPEEM, including the distributor method. Assumptions used in valuing these assets included future earnings projections, technology migration factors, royalty rates, tax rates, and discount rates, among others. Contingent Consideration: From the DataFuzion acquisition, we recognized contingent consideration, which was determined to have a total fair value of $5.4 million, using two methods, a scenario-based method ("SBM") and an option 41 2021 Form 10-K pricing model ("OPM"), specifically the Black Scholes Merton model. Key assumptions used in the SMB include possible outcomes, probability of occurrence, and discount factor. Key assumptions used in the OPM include expected present value of certain ARR, and volatility. We believe the estimates applied to the valuations are based on reasonable assumptions, but are inherently uncertain. As a result, actual results may differ from the assumptions and judgments used to determine the fair value of the assets acquired, which could result in impairment losses in the future. Please refer to for a description of our revenue recognition and business combination policy and our significant accounting policies. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to for a full discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Non-GA AP Measures EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We believe that EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP financial measures, are useful to management and investors as supplemental measures to evaluate our overall operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are components of our management incentive plan and are used by management to assess performance and to compare our operating performance to our competitors. We define EBITDA as net income (loss) before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, and Adjusted EBITDA as EBITDA, as adjusted to exclude foreign exchange gains (losses), share-based compensation expense and related employer taxes, severance charges, restructuring consulting fees, and certain other non-recurring items. Adjusted EBITDA margin is determined by calculating the percentage that Adjusted EBITDA is of total revenue. Management believes that EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are helpful in highlighting management performance trends because EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin exclude the results of decisions that are outside the control of operating management. Our presentation of EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are intended as supplemental measures of our performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss), earnings per share, or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP, or as measures of operating cash flows or liquidity. Our presentation of EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin should not be construed to imply that our future results will be unaffected by similar items to those eliminated in this presentation. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are included in this discussion because they are key metrics used by management to assess our operating performance. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin are not defined under GAAP, are not measures of net income or any other performance measures derived in accordance with GAAP, and are subject to important limitations. Our use of the terms EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies in our industry and are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin have important limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin do not reflect the following: • our cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; • changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; • any charges for the assets being depreciated and amortized that may need to be replaced in the future; • the impact of share-based compensation upon our results of operations; • the significant interest expense or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments on our debt; • our income tax expense or the cash requirements to pay our income taxes; and 42 2021 Form 10-K • certain other non-recurring items. In evaluating EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses similar to those eliminated in this presentation. The following table reconciles net loss to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented: (a) Represents share-based compensation expense and related employer taxes. (b) Represents costs for severance compensation paid to employees whose positions have been eliminated or who have been terminated not for cause. (c) Represents consulting fees and expenses incurred during the periods presented in connection with any acquisition, investment, disposition, recapitalization, equity offering, issuance or repayment of debt, issuance of equity interests, or refinancing. (d) Represents (1) impacts of changes to our facilities, resulting in a net gain of $19.1 million during 2021 primarily as a result of the sale of our St. Petersburg, Florida facility and charges of $16.8 million during 2020 related to the abandonment of certain leased facilities, (2) in 2021 the difference between the historical five-year average pension expense and the current period actuarially determined pension expense associated with the planned termination of the frozen U.S. pension plan and related changes in investment strategy associated with protecting the now fully funded status, (3) the impact of the fair value adjustment for the DataFuzion contingent consideration during 2021, and (4) recovery in 2020 of duplicate payments associated with the 2019 isolated service incident. Please refer to , , and for further discussion of these items. (e) Net profit margin is determined by calculating the percentage that net (loss) income is of total revenue. 43 2021 Form 10-K The following tables present a reconciliation of our reported results to our non-GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA basis for all periods presented: (a) Other operating expenses includes net gain of $19.1 million during 2021 primarily as a result of the sale of our St. Petersburg, Florida facility, intercompany foreign exchange loss, restructuring consulting fees, the difference between the historical five-year average pension expense and the current period actuarially determined pension expense associated with the planned termination of the frozen U.S. pension plan and related changes in investment strategy associated with protecting the now fully funded status, and the impact of the fair value adjustment for the DataFuzion contingent consideration. (b) The Adjusted amount is a non-GAAP financial measure. (c) Income tax effects have been calculated based on the statutory tax rates in effect in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions during the period. 44 2021 Form 10-K (a) Other operating expenses includes lease abandonment charges, intercompany foreign exchange loss, restructuring consulting fees, and recovery of duplicate payments associated with the 2019 isolated service incident. (b) The Adjusted amount is a non-GAAP financial measure. (c) Income tax effects have been calculated based on the statutory tax rates in effect in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions during the period. 45 2021 Form 10-K