********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The Company's operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond its control. Based on current information, the Company believes that the following identifies the most material risk factors that could affect its operations. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Relating to the M&M Divestitures, N&B Transaction and the Dow and Corteva Distributions DuPont could incur additional tax liabilities if certain internal transactions undertaken in connection with the completed divestiture of a majority of the Mobility & Materials business to Celanese and divestiture of the Delrin® business to TJC (the "M&M Divestitures"), fail to qualify for their intended tax treatment. Prior to the closing of the M&M Divestitures, DuPont engaged in certain internal reorganization activities to separate into and to separately align the legal entities holding the M&M Business and the Delrin® business for disposition. DuPont has recognized a tax liability pursuant to these reorganization activities related to the M&M Divestitures. However, if certain of these internal reorganization activities fail to qualify for their intended tax treatment under U.S. federal, state, local tax and/or foreign tax law, DuPont could incur additional tax liabilities. The separation and combination of DuPont’s Nutrition & Biosciences business with IFF could result in a significant tax liability to DuPont. The distribution by DuPont to its stockholders of all the issued and outstanding shares of N&B through the Exchange Offer ("N&B Distribution") and the merger of N&B with a wholly-owned subsidiary of IFF ("N&B Merger") are expected to be tax-free to DuPont stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes (except to the extent that cash was paid to DuPont stockholders in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to the N&B Merger Agreement), and the N&B Contribution, defined below, N&B Distribution, and the one-time payment from N&B to DuPont of approximately $7.3 billion ("Special Cash Payment") are expected to result in no recognition of gain or loss by DuPont for U.S. federal income tax purposes. DuPont received an opinion of counsel and also obtained a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") regarding certain matters impacting the U.S. federal income tax treatment of the separation and transfer by DuPont of its N&B Business (the “N&B Contribution”), N&B Distribution, Special Cash Payment and certain related transactions. The conclusions of the IRS private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions DuPont authorized and representations DuPont made to the IRS. If any of those assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the IRS private letter ruling may be affected. If the N&B Contribution and N&B Distribution failed to qualify for the treatment described above, DuPont would be required to generally recognize a taxable gain on the transactions and stockholders of DuPont who receive N&B Common Stock (and subsequently, IFF Common Stock) would be subject to tax on their receipt of the N&B Common Stock. Additionally, if the Special Cash Payment or certain internal transactions related to the separation of the Nutrition & Biosciences business fail to qualify for their intended tax-free treatment under U.S. federal, state, local tax and/or foreign tax law, DuPont could incur additional tax liabilities. Under the Tax Matters Agreement by and between DuPont with N&B and IFF, N&B or IFF is generally required to indemnify DuPont for any taxes resulting from the separation of the Nutrition & Biosciences business (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by N&B or IFF involving the capital stock of N&B or IFF or any assets of the N&B group (excluding actions required by the documents governing the proposed transactions), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by N&B or IFF. DuPont is subject to continuing contingent tax-related liabilities of Dow and Corteva following the separations and DWDP Distributions. After the separations and DWDP Distributions, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of Dow and Corteva may become the Company’s obligations, either in whole or in part. For example, to the extent that any subsidiary of the Company was included in the consolidated tax reporting group of either TDCC or EIDP for any taxable period or portion of any taxable period ending on or before the effective date of the DWDP Merger, such subsidiary is jointly and severally liable for the U.S. federal income tax liability of the entire consolidated tax reporting group of TDCC or EIDP, as applicable, for such taxable period. In connection with the separations and DWDP Distributions, DuPont, Dow and Corteva have entered into a Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, that allocates the responsibility for prior period consolidated taxes among Dow, Corteva and DuPont. If Dow or Corteva are unable to pay any prior period taxes for which it is responsible, however, DuPont could be required to pay the entire amount of such taxes, and such amounts could be significant. Other provisions of federal, state, local, or foreign 15 law may establish similar liability for other matters, including laws governing tax-qualified pension plans, as well as other contingent liabilities. In connection with the separations and DWDP Distributions, certain liabilities are allocated to or retained by DuPont through assumption or indemnification of Dow and/or Corteva, as applicable. If DuPont is required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities to Dow and/or Corteva, DuPont may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, and the Company’s financial results could be negatively impacted. In addition, certain liabilities are allocated to or retained by Dow and/or Corteva through assumption or indemnification, or subject to indemnification by other third parties. These indemnities may not be sufficient to insure the Company against the full amount of liabilities, including PFAS Stray Liabilities, allocated to or retained by it, and Dow, Corteva and/or third parties may not be able to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations in the future. Pursuant to the DWDP Separation and Distribution Agreement, the DWDP Employee Matters Agreement, and the DWDP Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, (collectively, the “Core Agreements”) with Dow and Corteva, as well as the Letter Agreement between DuPont and Corteva, DuPont has agreed to assume, and indemnify Dow and Corteva for, certain liabilities. Payments pursuant to these indemnities may be significant and could negatively impact the Company’s business. Third parties could also seek to hold DuPont responsible for any of the liabilities allocated to Dow and Corteva, including those related to EIDP’s materials science and/or agriculture businesses, or for the conduct of such businesses prior to the distributions, and such third parties could seek damages, other monetary penalties (whether civil or criminal) and/or other remedies. Additionally, DuPont generally assumes and is responsible for the payment of the Company’s share of (i) certain liabilities of DowDuPont relating to, arising out of or resulting from certain general corporate matters of DuPont and (ii) certain separation expenses not otherwise allocated to Corteva or Dow (or allocated specifically to it) pursuant to the Core Agreements, and third parties may seek to hold it responsible for Dow’s or Corteva’s share of any such liabilities. Dow and/or Corteva, as applicable, have agreed to indemnify it for such liabilities; however, such indemnities may not be sufficient to protect it against the full amount of such liabilities or from other remedies, and Dow and/or Corteva, as applicable, may not be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. Even if DuPont ultimately succeeds in recovering from Dow and/or Corteva, as applicable, any amounts for which DuPont is held liable, DuPont may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Generally, as described in Litigation, Environmental Matters and Indemnifications, losses from liabilities related to discontinued and/or divested operations and businesses of EIDP that are not primarily related to its agriculture business or specialty products business, (“Stray Liabilities”), are allocated to or shared by each of Corteva and DuPont. Stray Liabilities include liabilities arising out of actions to the extent related to or resulting from EIDP’s development, testing, manufacture or sale of per- or polyfluoroalkyl substances, (“PFAS Stray Liabilities”), that are not otherwise defended and indemnified by Chemours. At December 31, 2023, the Company has recorded an indemnification liability related to Stray Liabilities. The Company recognizes an indemnification liability when a loss is reasonably probable and can be reasonably estimated. While the Company has established processes and controls over the information to support its accounting for indemnification liabilities with each of Corteva and Dow, the Company is reliant on the accuracy, transparency, completeness and timeliness of information from the applicable party, either Corteva or Dow, that retains direct liability for the underlying matter. Estimating indemnified costs of environmental remediation and compliance activities is particularly difficult since such activities are dependent on the nature of and activity at specific sites; new and evolving analytical, operating and remediation technologies and techniques; agreed action plans; changes in environmental regulations; permissible levels of specific compounds in water, air or soil; enforcement theories and policies, including efforts to recover natural resource damages; and the presence and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. At December 31, 2023, the Company had recorded indemnification assets related to Stray Liabilities and other matters. Although the Company believes it is remote, there can be no assurance that any such third-party would have adequate resources to satisfy its indemnification obligation when due, or, would not ultimately be successful in claiming defenses against payment. Even if recovery from the third-party is ultimately successful, DuPont may be temporarily required to bear these losses. Each of these risks could negatively affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. See discussion of the Core Agreements in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Litigation, Environmental Matters and Indemnifications in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On January 22, 2021, DuPont, Corteva and Chemours entered into a cost sharing arrangement related to future eligible PFAS costs. The Company’s results of operations could be adversely affected by litigation and other commitments and contingencies, including expected performance under and impact of the cost sharing arrangement. 16 While reducing uncertainty, the Company expects to benefit from the cost sharing arrangement related to future PFAS eligible costs, achievement of any such benefits may not be realized and depend on a number of factors and uncertainties that include, but are not limited to: the achievement, terms and conditions of final agreements related to the cost sharing arrangement; the outcome of any pending or future litigation related to PFAS or PFOA, including personal injury claims and natural resource damages claims; the extent and cost of ongoing remediation obligations and potential future remediation obligations; changes in laws and regulations applicable to PFAS chemicals, changes in applicable health advisory levels and in chronic reference doses for PFAS in drinking water; the performance by each of the parties of their respective obligations under the cost sharing arrangement. DuPont faces risks arising from various unasserted and asserted litigation matters, including product liability, patent infringement and other intellectual property disputes, contract and commercial litigation, claims for damage or personal injury, antitrust claims, governmental regulations and other actions. An adverse outcome in any one or more of these matters could be material to the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In the ordinary course of business, DuPont may make certain commitments, including representations, warranties and indemnities relating to current and past operations, including those related to divested businesses, and DuPont may issue guarantees of third-party obligations. If DuPont is required to make payments as a result, they could exceed the amounts accrued therefor, thereby adversely affecting the Company’s results of operations. If the completed distribution of Corteva or Dow, in each case, together with certain related transactions, were to fail to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then the Company could be subject to significant tax and indemnification liability. The completed distributions of Corteva and Dow were each conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, the Company’s tax counsel, regarding the qualification of the applicable distribution along with certain related transactions as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 and Section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code,” and such opinions, collectively, the “Tax Opinions”). The Tax Opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, and undertakings, and certain representations from the Company, Dow and Corteva, as applicable, as well as the IRS Ruling (as defined below). Notwithstanding the Tax Opinions and the IRS Ruling, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) could determine on audit that either, or both, of the distributions and certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions of the Tax Opinions. Even if a distribution otherwise constituted a tax-free transaction to stockholders under Section 355 of the Code, the Company could be required to recognize corporate level tax on such distribution and certain related transactions under Section 355(e) of the Code if the IRS determines that, as a result of the DWDP Merger or other transactions considered part of a plan with such distribution, there was a 50 percent or greater change in ownership in the Company, Dow or Corteva, as relevant. In connection with the DWDP Merger, the Company sought and received a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the proper time, manner and methodology for measuring common ownership in the stock of the Company, EIDP and TDCC for purposes of determining whether there was a 50 percent or greater change of ownership under Section 355(e) of the Code as a result of the DWDP Merger (the “IRS Ruling”). The Tax Opinions relied on the continued validity of the IRS Ruling and representations made by the Company as to the common ownership of the stock of TDCC and EIDP immediately prior to the DWDP Merger, and concluded that there was not a 50 percent or greater change of ownership for purposes of Section 355(e) as a result of the DWDP Merger. Notwithstanding the Tax Opinions and the IRS Ruling, the IRS could determine that a distribution or a related transaction should nevertheless be treated as a taxable transaction to the Company if it determines that any of the Company’s facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings was not correct or that a distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions in the Tax Opinions that are not covered by the IRS Ruling. Generally, corporate taxes resulting from the failure of a distribution to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes would be imposed on the Company. Under the DWDP Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, that the Company entered into with Dow and Corteva, Dow and Corteva are generally obligated to indemnify the Company against any such taxes imposed on it. However, if a distribution fails to qualify for non-recognition treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes for certain reasons relating to the overall structure of the DWDP Merger and the distributions, then under the DWDP Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, the Company and Corteva, on the one hand, and Dow, on the other hand, would share the tax liability resulting from such failure in accordance with the relative equity values of the Company and Dow on the first full trading day following the distribution of Dow, and the Company and Corteva would in turn share any such resulting tax liability in accordance with the relative equity values of the Company and Corteva on the first full trading day following the distribution of Corteva. Furthermore, under the terms of the DWDP Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, a party also generally will be responsible for any taxes imposed on the other parties that arise from the failure of either distribution to qualify as tax-free for 17 U.S. federal income tax purposes within the meaning of Section 355 of the Code or the failure of certain related transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment, to the extent such failure to qualify is attributable to actions, events or transactions relating to such party, or such party's affiliates’, stock, assets or business, or any breach of such party's representations made in connection with the IRS Ruling or in any representation letter provided to a tax advisor in connection with certain tax opinions, including the Tax Opinions, regarding the tax-free status of the distributions and certain related transactions. To the extent that the Company is responsible for any liability under the DWDP Tax Matters Agreement, as amended, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future reporting periods. Risks Relating to DuPont’s Business and Results of Operations DuPont may not realize the anticipated benefits of its share repurchase programs and any failure to repurchase the Company’s common stock after DuPont has announced its intention to do so may negatively impact the Company’s stock price . Subsequent to year end, in the first quarter 2024, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $1 billion of common stock (“the $1B Program”). The $1B Program terminates on June 30, 2025, unless extended or shortened by the Board of Directors. In the first quarter 2024, DuPont entered an ASR agreement with one counterparty for the repurchase of about $500 million of common stock. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average stock price for DuPont common stock during the term of the ASR agreement, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement is expected in the second quarter of 2024. Under this or any other future share repurchase programs, DuPont may make share repurchases through a variety of methods, including open share market purchases or privately negotiated transactions off market, including additional ASR agreements in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. The timing and amount of any repurchases, if any, will depend on factors such as the stock price, economic and market conditions, and corporate and regulatory requirements. Any failure to repurchase shares after the Company has announced its intention to do so may negatively impact DuPont’s reputation, investor confidence and the price of the Company’s common stock. The existence of share repurchase programs could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to be higher than it otherwise would be and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for DuPont stock. Although these programs are intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance they will do so because the market price of DuPont common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the effectiveness of the programs. Repurchasing common stock will reduce the amount of cash DuPont has available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or business opportunities and other general corporate requirements, and the Company may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these share repurchase programs. Supply chain and operational disruptions, including those as a result of pandemics and climate change, and volatility in energy and raw material costs, could significantly increase costs and expenses, adversely impact the Company’s sales and earnings and impact access to sources of liquidity. The Company’s manufacturing processes and operations depend on the continued availability of energy and raw materials, the costs of which are subject to worldwide supply and demand as well as other factors beyond the Company’s control, including potential legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions, creating a carbon tax or implementing a cap and trade program which could create increases in costs and price volatility. Operational changes and transition to renewable energy sources to meet country, NGO and corporate-level net-zero GHG emissions pledges and related decarbonization technology investments, may require the Company to make significant capital investments, re-qualify its products with certain suppliers, as well as meet additional regulatory and compliance requirements and could result in higher cost and expenses. Climate change increases the frequency and severity of potential supply chain and operational disruptions from weather events and natural disasters. The chronic physical impacts associated with climate change, for example, increased temperatures, changes in weather patterns and rising sea levels, could significantly increase costs and expenses and create additional supply chain and operational disruption risks. Supply chain disruptions, plant and/or power outages, labor shortages and/or strikes, geo-political activity, weather events and natural disasters, including hurricanes or flooding that impact coastal regions, and global health risks or pandemics could seriously harm the Company’s operations as well as the operations of the Company’s customers and suppliers. In addition, the Company’s suppliers may experience capacity limitations in their own operations or may elect to reduce or eliminate certain product lines. To address this risk, generally, the Company seeks to have many sources of supply for key raw materials in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. In addition, and where the supply market for key raw materials is concentrated, DuPont takes additional steps to manage its exposure to supply chain risk and price fluctuations through, among 18 other things, negotiated long-term contracts some which include minimum purchase obligations. However, there can be no assurance that such mitigation efforts will prevent future difficulty in obtaining sufficient and timely delivery of certain raw materials. DuPont also takes actions to offset the effects of higher energy and raw material costs through selling price increases, productivity improvements and cost reduction programs. Success in offsetting higher raw material costs with price increases is largely influenced by competitive and economic conditions and could vary significantly depending on the market served. As a result, volatility in these costs may negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. DuPont’s manufacturing operations may be adversely affected by impacts of pandemics including government actions and other responsive measures, quarantines and health and availability of essential onsite personnel. DuPont is unable to predict the extent of pandemic related impacts on its business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition which depends on highly uncertain and unpredictable future developments. DuPont’s financial results may be materially and adversely impacted by a variety of factors that have not yet been determined, including potential impairments of goodwill and other assets. DuPont, when necessary, will take actions, including reducing costs, restructuring actions, and delaying certain capital expenditures and non-essential spend. In addition, the Company may consider further reductions in or furloughing additional operations in response to further and/or deeper declines in demand and/or or supply chain disruptions. There can be no guaranty that such actions would significantly mitigate the impact on the company’s business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity or financial condition and the Company may experience materially adverse impacts to its business, results of operations and financial condition as a result of related global economic impacts, including inflationary pressures that have occurred and may continue to occur in the future. The Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected by interruption or regulation of the Company’s information technology or network systems and storage of information and other business disruptions. DuPont relies on centralized and local information technology and physical networks and systems, some of which are managed or accessible by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to otherwise manage or support its business. Additionally, the Company collects, stores, processes, uses and has access to certain data, including proprietary business and personal information or data that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, orders and controls or rules imposed by customer or other contracts. The processing and storage of personal information is increasingly subject to privacy and data security regulations, and many such regulations are country or territory-specific. The interpretation and application of data protection laws in the U.S., Europe, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation, Asia Pacific, Latin America and elsewhere are continuing to evolve and may be different across these jurisdictions. The Company seeks to implement these requirements in a compliant manner. Violations of these laws or standards could result in criminal or civil sanctions, investigations, or enforcement actions. Even the mere allegation of such violations, could harm the Company’s ability to do business, its results of operations, financial position and reputation. Information technology system and/or network disruptions, whether caused by acts of sabotage, employee error, malfeasance or other actions, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations as well as the operations of the Company’s customers and suppliers. Other business disruptions may also be caused by security breaches, which could include, for example, attacks on information technology and infrastructure by hackers, viruses, breaches due to employee error, malfeasance or other actions or other disruptions. DuPont and/or the Company’s suppliers may fail to effectively prevent, detect and recover from these or other security breaches and, therefore, such breaches could result in misuse of the Company’s assets, loss of property including trade secrets and confidential or personal information, some of which is subject to privacy and security laws, and other business disruptions. As a result, DuPont may be subject to legal claims or proceedings, reporting errors, processing inefficiencies, negative media attention, loss of sales, interference with regulatory compliance which could result in sanctions or penalties, liability or penalties under privacy laws, disruption in the Company’s operations, and damage to the Company’s reputation, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Like other major corporations, DuPont is the target of cyber-attacks, from time to time, which include phishing, spam emails, hacking, social engineering, industrial espionage and malicious software. DuPont has determined that these attacks have resulted, and could result in the future, in unauthorized parties gaining access to certain confidential business information. However, risks from previous cybersecurity incidents, have not materially affected, and are not reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company, including its business strategy, results of operations or financial. Although, there can be no assurance that DuPont will not suffer such losses in the future. DuPont has engaged and expects to continue to engage in merger and acquisition activity. As part of preparatory and post-closing integration activities, the Company: (i) conducts a cybersecurity risk threat assessment and when evidence of a breach is 19 uncovered, conducts additional due diligence; (ii) based on the assessment, the Company develops and implements risk mitigation plans if needed and brings the acquisition under the Company’s cyber-attack/breach detection and response programs; and (iii) conducts an internal controls risk and compliance assessment and creates, as needed, responsive action plans intended to mitigate and remediate identified weaknesses in the control environment. DuPont seeks to actively manage the risks within the Company’s control that could lead to business disruptions and security breaches. As these threats continue to evolve, particularly around cybersecurity, DuPont may be required to expend significant resources to enhance the Company’s control environment, processes, practices and other protective measures. Despite these efforts, such events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Enforcing the Company’s intellectual property rights, or defending against intellectual property claims asserted by others, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, know-how and confidential information, trademarks, tradenames and trade dress, are important to the Company’s business. DuPont endeavors to protect the Company’s business, products and processes by obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights under the intellectual property laws of certain jurisdictions around the world. However, DuPont may be unable to obtain or enforce its intellectual property rights in key jurisdictions for various reasons including government policies and regulations, and changes in such policies and regulations, including changes made in reaction to pressure from non-governmental organizations, or the public generally, which could impact the extent of intellectual property protection afforded by such jurisdictions. DuPont has designed and implemented internal controls intended to restrict access to and unauthorized use of the Company’s confidential information and trade secrets. Despite these precautions, the Company’s confidential information and trade secrets are vulnerable to unauthorized access and use through employee error or actions, theft by employees or third parties, cybersecurity incidents and other security breaches. When unauthorized access and use is discovered, DuPont considers the matter for report to governmental authorities for investigation, as appropriate, and takes measures intended to mitigate any potential impact and to stop unauthorized access. Third parties may also claim the Company’s products violate their intellectual property rights. Defending such claims, even those without merit, is time-consuming and expensive. In addition, as a result of such claims, DuPont has and could be required in the future to enter into license agreements, develop non-infringing products or engage in litigation that could be costly. If challenges are resolved adversely, it could negatively impact the Company’s ability to obtain licenses on competitive terms, commercialize new products and generate sales from existing products. Any one or more of the above factors could significantly affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. An impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. In connection with completed acquisitions, DuPont has recorded goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet. As a result of the DWDP Merger and related acquisition method of accounting, EIDP’s assets and liabilities were remeasured and DowDuPont recognized them at fair value. Since certain of the Company's assets, especially those related to the Water & Protection and Electronics and Industrial segment, and those carried at Corporate & Other at December 31, 2023 are heritage EIDP, declines, if any, in projected cash flows could have a material, negative impact on the fair value of the Company’s reporting units and assets. Refer to note 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the goodwill impairment recorded in 2023. In accordance with US GAAP, at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are identified, DuPont must assess both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. Intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable. If testing indicates that goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, their carrying values will be written down based on fair values with a charge against earnings. Where DuPont utilizes discounted cash flow methodologies in determining fair values, significant negative industry or economic trends and forecasts (including projected revenue, gross margins, selling, administrative, research and development expenses, capital expenditures, the weighted average cost of capital, the terminal growth rates, and the tax rates), disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant change or planned changes in use of our assets, changes in the structure of our business, divestitures, market capitalization declines or increases in associated discount rates may impair our goodwill and other intangible assets. When DuPont utilizes the market approach in determining fair values, adverse changes in projected EBITDA and derived multiples from comparable market transactions may impair our goodwill. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. 20 Failure to effectively manage acquisitions, divestitures, alliances and other portfolio actions could adversely impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. DuPont continuously evaluates acquisition candidates, including significant transactions, that may strategically fit the Company’s business and/or growth objectives. If DuPont is unable to successfully integrate and develop acquired businesses, DuPont could fail to achieve anticipated synergies and cost savings, including any expected increases in revenues and operating results, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. DuPont expects to continually review the Company’s portfolio of assets for contributions to the Company’s objectives and alignment with the Company’s growth strategy. The Letter Agreement between the Company and Corteva limits DuPont’s ability to separate certain businesses and assets to third parties without assigning certain of its indemnification obligations under the DWDP Separation and Distribution Agreement to the transferee of such businesses and assets or meeting certain other alternative conditions. DuPont may be unable to meet the conditions under the Letter Agreement, if applicable. Even if the conditions under the Letter Agreement are met or are not applicable, DuPont may not be successful in separating underperforming or non-strategic assets, and gains or losses on the divestiture of, or lost operating income from, such assets may affect the Company’s earnings. Moreover, DuPont might incur asset impairment charges related to acquisitions or divestitures that reduce the Company’s earnings. In addition, if the execution or implementation of acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures and other portfolio actions is not successful and/or the Company fails to effectively manage its cost as its portfolio evolves, it could adversely impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Failure to maintain a streamlined operating model and sustain operational improvements may reduce the Company’s profitability or adversely impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s profitability and margin growth will depend in part on the Company’s ability to maintain a streamlined operating model and drive sustainable improvements, through actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. A variety of factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to realize the targeted cost synergies, including failure to successfully optimize the Company’s facilities footprint, the failure to take advantage of the Company’s global supply chain, the failure to identify and eliminate duplicative programs. There can be no assurance that DuPont will be able to achieve or sustain any or all of the cost savings generated from restructuring actions. The Company’s results will be affected by competitive conditions and customer preferences. Demand for the Company’s products, which impacts revenue and profit margins, will be affected by (i) the development and timing of the introduction of competitive products; (ii) the Company’s response to downward pricing trends to stay competitive; (iii) changes in customer preferences, order patterns, such as changes in the levels of inventory maintained by customers and the timing of customer purchases which may be affected by announced price changes and other factors outside of the Company's control; (iv) availability and cost of raw materials and energy, as well as the Company’s ability and success in passing through increases in such costs; (v) levels of economic growth in the geographic and end use markets served by the Company; (vi) changes in buying patterns thought to be temporary destocking could be indicative of loss of market share and (vii) the mega-trends in digital transformation, connectivity, automation and ethics, environmental impact and sustainability driven purchasing decisions. The demand for product offerings that align with sustainability goals is expected to continue to increase. Customers are seeking products that are made using environmentally sound practices and materials, and which adhere to ethical and human rights standards. Demand for product offerings that are less carbon-intensive or customers determine support their respective sustainability goals (in areas such as Substances of Concern, Circular Economy, Waste, Water, nature/biodiversity, Responsible Procurement, Human Rights) is expected to continue to increase, driven by end-user and customer demand, investor preference, and government legislative and market- and product-specific actions in response to risks created by climate change. Failure to timely react to these trends and manage the Company’s product portfolio and innovation activities responsively could decrease the competitiveness of the Company’s products and result in the de-selection of the Company as a partner of choice. In addition, the failure to set goals, take actions, make progress and report against, commensurate with relevant market competitors, the Company’s sustainability strategy, could harm the Company’s reputation, and its ability to compete and to attract top talent, and could result in increased investor activism and the deselection of the Company as a partner or supplier of choice. Success in achieving the Company’s growth objectives is significantly dependent on the timing and market acceptance of the Company’s new product offerings, including the Company’s ability to renew the Company’s pipeline of new product offerings and to bring those offerings to market. This ability may be adversely affected by difficulties or delays in product development, such as the inability to identify viable new products, obtain adequate intellectual property protection, or gain market acceptance of new products. 21 The Company invests resources in technology and its operational assets to satisfy anticipated demand. There is no guarantee that demand will support the Company’s new investments. There are no guarantees that new product offerings will prove to be commercially successful. Additionally, the Company’s expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses. Failure to attract and retain talented people with the necessary knowledge and experience could adversely affect Company’s ability to compete and achieve its strategic goals. Attracting, developing, and retaining talented employees is essential to the Company’s successful delivery of products and services, ability to innovate, including developing new products and technologies, and ability to identify trends and develop new markets. Competition for employees can be intense. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate, motivate and reward its employees, it may not be able to retain them or attract new employee in the future which could adversely impact the Company’s ability to compete effectively. The Company may be required to increase salary and/or benefits to attract top performers which could significantly increase the Company's costs and adversely impact its results of operations. Risks Relating to Capital Resources and Liquidity Changes in the Company’s credit ratings could increase the Company’s cost of borrowing or restrict the Company’s ability to access debt capital markets. The Company’s credit ratings are important to the Company’s cost of capital. DuPont relies on access to the debt capital markets and other short-term borrowings to finance the Company’s long-term and day-to-day operations. A decrease in the ratings assigned to it by the ratings agencies may negatively impact the Company’s access to the debt capital markets and increase the Company’s cost of borrowing. The major rating agencies will routinely evaluate the Company’s credit profile and assign debt ratings to it. This evaluation is based on a number of factors, which include weighing the Company’s financial strength versus business, industry and financial risk. The addition of further leverage to the Company’s capital structure could impact the Company’s credit ratings. Failure to maintain an investment grade rating at the Company’s current level would adversely affect the Company’s cost of funding and the Company’s results of operations and could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and access to the capital markets. Any limitation on the Company’s ability to continue to raise money in the debt capital markets could have a substantial negative effect on the Company’s liquidity. If DuPont is unable to generate sufficient cash flow or maintain access to adequate external financing, it could restrict the Company’s current operations, activities under its current and future stock buyback programs, and the Company’s growth opportunities, which could adversely affect the Company’s operating results. A significant percentage of the Company’s net sales are generated from the Company’s international operations and are subject to economic, geo-political, foreign exchange and other risks. DuPont does business globally in about 50 countries. The percentage of net sales generated by the international operations of DuPont, including U.S. exports, was approximately 68 percent of net sales on a continuing operations basis for the year ended December 31, 2023. With Asia Pacific as the Company’s largest region by revenue and China as the largest country within the Asia Pacific region and second largest globally by revenue, DuPont expects the percentage of the Company’s net sales derived from international operations to continue to be significant. Risks related to international operations include: • exchange control regulations • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates • foreign investment laws • GDP growth rate, especially in the U.S. and China The Company’s international operations expose it to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. As of the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company’s largest currency exposures are the European euro, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, South Korean won and Canadian dollar. U.S. dollar fluctuations against foreign currency have an impact to commercial prices and raw material costs in some cases and could result in local price increases if the price or raw material costs is denominated in U.S. dollar. Sales and expenses of the Company’s non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and fluctuations of foreign currency against the U.S. dollar could impact U.S. dollar-denominated earnings. In addition, the Company’s assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies can also be impacted by foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar, which could result in exchange gain or loss from revaluation. DuPont also faces exchange rate risk from the Company’s investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. 22 DuPont has a balance sheet hedging program and actively looks for opportunities in managing currency exposures related to earnings. However, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to it or be successful in completely mitigating such exposures. DuPont generates significant amounts of cash outside of the United States that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. While DuPont employs comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure the Company’s ability to fund the Company’s operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom DuPont transacts business could expose it to financial loss. Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect the Company’s international operations and could significantly affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Regulatory Changes and Compliance Risks related to trade disputes, regulations and policies could adversely impact DuPont’s results of operations. Trade regulations, policies and disputes can and have increased tariffs, trade barriers, limited the Company’s ability to sell certain products to certain customers, and otherwise impacted the Company’s global supply and distribution chains and research and development activities. In particular, trade tensions between the US and China have led to increased trade restrictions on the semiconductor business, particularly exports to China of US-regulated products and technology, that have affected downstream demand impacting ordering patterns from certain customers of the Semiconductor technologies business. Continuing or expanding trade restrictions or disputes could adversely impact demand for and manufacture, distribution or sale of the Company’s products, and restrict access to certain markets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and growth prospects. China’s policy to enhance domestic supply in sectors where the Company competes, could impact future demand for the Company’s products. The costs of complying with evolving regulatory requirements could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations and substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. DuPont continues to be subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment, product content, greenhouse gas emissions, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances, which include certain substances of concern, and waste materials. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in the regulatory environment could inhibit or interrupt the Company’s operations, require modifications to the Company’s products, processes or facilities or cause the Company to discontinue or relocate the production of certain products. Changes to regulations or the implementation of additional regulations, may result in significant costs or capital expenditures or require changes in business practice that could result in reduced margins or profitability. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities causing a negative impact on the Company’s business, cash flows and results of operations. The Company’s business, results of operations and reputation could be adversely affected by industry-specific risks including process safety and product stewardship/regulatory compliance issues. DuPont is subject to risks which include, but are not limited to, product safety or quality; shifting consumer preferences and public perception; federal, state, and local regulations on manufacturing or labeling; packaging, environmental, health and safety regulations; and customer product liability claims. In most jurisdictions, DuPont must test the safety, efficacy and environmental impact of the Company’s products to satisfy regulatory requirements and obtain the needed approvals. In certain jurisdictions, DuPont must periodically renew the Company’s approvals, which may require it to demonstrate compliance with then-current standards. The regulatory approvals process is lengthy, complex and in some markets unpredictable, with requirements that can vary by product, technology, industry and country. Regulatory standards and trial procedures are continuously changing in response to technological developments, changes in legislation, and governmental, NGO and societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. The pace of change together with the lack of regulatory harmony could result in unintended noncompliance. To maintain the Company’s right to produce or sell existing products or to commercialize new products, DuPont must be able to demonstrate the Company’s ability to satisfy the requirements of regulatory agencies, industries, and customers. 23 The failure to meet existing and new requirements or receive necessary permits or approvals could have near- and long-term effects on the Company’s ability to produce and sell certain current and future products, which could significantly increase operating costs and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, negative publicity related to product liability, safety, health and environmental matters may damage the Company’s reputation. Changes in the global and local tax regulatory environments in, and the distribution of income among, the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates, could adversely impact DuPont’s results of operations. DuPont's future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of the Company’s tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. The Company has ongoing federal, state and international income tax audits in various jurisdictions and evaluates uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by local tax authorities. The impact, if any, of these audits to the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits is not estimable. The Company’s tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the Company which could impact the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “IRA”) was enacted into law in the United States. Among other changes to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), the IRA imposes a 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax on certain corporations (the “CAMT”). Changes in tax laws or regulations, including further regulatory developments in connection with the IRA; multi-jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the action items provided by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) including the OECD's Global Anti-Base Erosion ("GloBE) rules under Pillar Two, which introduces a global minimum corporate tax rate set at 15 percent on multinational enterprises; and the OECD’s, European Commission’s and other major jurisdiction’s heightened interest in and taxation of large multi-national companies, increase tax uncertainty and impact the Company’s effective tax rate and provision for income taxes. Given the unpredictability of possible further changes to and the potential interdependency of the United States or foreign tax laws and regulations, it is difficult to predict the cumulative effect of such tax laws and regulations on DuPont’s results of operations. The Company’s business, results of operations and reputation could be harmed by improper conduct by its employees, agents or business partners. DuPont is required to comply with numerous U.S. and non-U.S. laws and regulations including those related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, global trade, trade sanctions, anti-trust, anti-money laundering laws, anti-slavery and human rights. The Company’s policies mandate compliance with these laws and regulations. The Company operates globally, including in parts of the world that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption and where local customs and practices can be inconsistent with anti-corruption and/or anti-bribery laws. Despite the Company’s training and compliance program, DuPont cannot ensure that its internal control processes will prevent improper action by employees, agents, distributors, suppliers or business partners. Violations of these laws could result in criminal or civil sanctions and even the mere allegation of such violations, could harm the Company’s ability to do business, its results of operations, financial position and reputation.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and related notes to enhance the understanding of the Company’s operations and present business environment. Components of management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations include: • Overview • Analysis of Operations • Result of Operations • Segment Results • Outlook • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Recent Accounting Pronouncements • Critical Accounting Estimates • Long-Term Employee Benefits • Environmental Matters OVERVIEW As of December 31, 2023, the Company has $4.4 billion of net working capital and $2.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents. The Company expects its cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and ability to access the debt capital markets to provide sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet the liquidity requirements associated with its continued operations. The Company continually assesses its liquidity position, including possible sources of incremental liquidity, in light of the current economic environment, capital market conditions and Company performance. Mobility & Materials Divestitures On November 1, 2022, (the "Transaction Date") DuPont completed the previously announced divestiture of the majority of the historic Mobility & Materials segment, including the Engineering Polymers business line and select product lines within the Advanced Solutions and Performance Resins business lines (the “M&M Divestiture”). The Company had previously entered into a Transaction Agreement (the "Transaction Agreement") with Celanese Corporation ("Celanese") on February 17, 2022 for a purchase price of $11.0 billion in cash. Cash received on the Transaction Date, as adjusted for preliminary and other adjustments was $11.0 billion. These adjustments include approximately $0.5 billion of cash transferred with the M&M Divestiture for which DuPont was reimbursed at closing resulting in net proceeds of $10.5 billion. On February 18, 2022, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved of the divestiture of the Delrin® acetal homopolymer (H-POM) business (the "Delrin® Divestiture"). On November 1, 2023, the Company closed the sale of the Delrin® business to TJC LP ("TJC"), (the “Delrin® Divestiture”). DuPont received cash proceeds of approximately $1.28 billion, which includes certain customary transaction adjustments, a note receivable of $350 million and acquired a 19.9 percent non-controlling equity interest in Derby Group Holdings LLC, (“Derby”). The customary transaction adjustments related to $27 million of cash transferred with the Delrin® Divestiture for which DuPont was reimbursed at closing resulting in net cash proceeds of $1.25 billion. TJC, through its subsidiaries, holds the 80.1 percent controlling interest in Derby. The Delrin® Divestiture together with the M&M Divestiture (collectively the "M&M Divestitures" and the businesses in scope for the M&M Divestitures collectively the "M&M Businesses") represent a strategic shift that has a major impact on DuPont's operations and results. The financial position of DuPont as of December 31, 2022 presents the assets and liabilities of the Delrin® Divestiture as held for sale, presented as discontinued operations. The results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 present the financial results of the Delrin® Divestiture through the November 1, 2023 transaction date, as discontinued operations. In the comparative period, the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 present the financial results of the M&M Businesses as discontinued operations. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the cash flows of the Delrin® Divestiture as discontinued operations. In the comparative period, the cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 present the financial results of the M&M Businesses as discontinued operations. The comprehensive income of the M&M Businesses have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, respectively, for all periods presented. Unless otherwise indicated, the information in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements refer only to DuPont's continuing operations and do not include discussion of balances or activity of the M&M Businesses. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 30 The Auto Adhesives & Fluids, Multibase TM and Tedlar® product lines, previously reported within the historic Mobility & Materials segment, (the "Retained Businesses") were not included in the scope of the M&M Divestitures. The Retained Businesses are included in Corporate & Other. Spectrum Acquisition On August 1, 2023, the Company completed the previously announced acquisition of Spectrum Plastics Group (“Spectrum”) from AEA Investors (the “Spectrum Acquisition”). Spectrum manufactures flexible packaging products, plastic and silicone extrusions, and components for the industrial, food and medical business sectors throughout the United States and international markets. Spectrum is being integrated into the Electronics & Industrial segment. The net purchase price was approximately $1,792 million, including a net upward adjustment of approximately $43.1 million for acquired cash and net working capital, among other items. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Terminated Intended Rogers Acquisition On November 1, 2022, the Company announced the termination of the previously announced agreement to acquire the outstanding shares of Rogers Corporation (“Rogers”) as DuPont and Rogers were unable to obtain timely clearance from all the required regulators ("Terminated Intended Rogers Acquisition"). N&B Transaction On February 1, 2021, the Company completed the divestiture of the Nutrition & Biosciences (“N&B”) business to International Flavors & Fragrance Inc. (“IFF”) in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction (the “N&B Transaction”) that resulted in IFF issuing shares to DuPont stockholders. In connection with the N&B Transaction, N&B made a one-time cash payment of approximately $7.3 billion (the “Special Cash Payment”) to DuPont. The results of operations of DuPont for all periods presented reflect the historical financial results of N&B as discontinued operations. The comprehensive income related to N&B has not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the applicable period. Unless otherwise indicated, the information in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements refer only to DuPont's continuing operations and do not include discussion of balances or activity of N&B. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Laird Performance Materials On July 1, 2021, DuPont completed the acquisition of Laird Performance Materials ("Laird PM") from Advent International (“Laird PM Acquisition”) for cash consideration of $2.4 billion, which reflects adjustments, primarily for acquired cash and net working capital. Laird PM has been integrated into the Electronic & Industrials segment. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Other Divestitures In May 2022, the Company completed the sale of its Biomaterials business unit, which included the Company's equity method investment in DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products, to the Huafon Group. Total consideration received related to the sale was approximately $240 million. In May 2022, a pre-tax gain of $26 million ($21 million net of tax) was recorded in "Sundry income (expense) - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The results of operations of the Biomaterials business unit are reported in Corporate & Other for 2021 and 2022. On December 31, 2021, the Company completed the sale of its Clean Technologies business unit, which is part of Corporate & Other. Total consideration related to the sale of the business is approximately $510 million, with cash proceeds of about $500 million reflecting adjustments for customary closing costs as defined within the purchase agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2021, a pre-tax loss of $3 million ($39 million loss net of tax, primarily driven by nondeductible goodwill) on the disposition was recorded in "Sundry income (expense) - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the second quarter of 2021, the Company completed the sale of its Solamet® business unit, which was part of Corporate & Other. Total consideration received related to the sale of the business was approximately $190 million. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of $140 million ($105 million net of tax) which was recorded in "Sundry income (expense) - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. 31 ANALYSIS OF OPERATIONS Macroeconomic Conditions In 2023, DuPont continued to experience the impact of macroeconomic factors primarily involving channel inventory destocking and slower industrial demand in China. The ultimate extent to which these macroeconomic factors will continue to impact DuPont's results is not known. The global economy has been impacted in recent years by supply chain disruptions and inflationary cost pressures as well as the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2022, the Company exited substantially all business operations in Russia and the Company does not have operations in the Ukraine. The military conflict in the Ukraine did not have a significant impact on results in 2023. The COVID-19 pandemic is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company's businesses globally in the foreseeable future. Joint Settlement Agreement On January 22, 2021, the Company, Corteva, EIDP and Chemours entered into a binding Memorandum of Understanding (the “MOU”), pursuant to which the parties have agreed to share certain costs associated with potential future liabilities related to alleged historical releases of certain PFAS arising out of pre-July 1, 2015 conduct (“eligible PFAS costs”) until the earlier to occur of (i) December 31, 2040, (ii) the day on which the aggregate amount of qualified spend (as defined in the MOU) is equal to $4 billion or (iii) a termination in accordance with the terms of the MOU. The parties have agreed that, during the term of this sharing arrangement, Chemours will bear 50 percent of any qualified spend and the Company and Corteva shall together bear 50 percent of any qualified spend. As of December 31, 2023, the Company has recorded an indemnification liability of $206 million in connection with the cost sharing arrangement related to future eligible PFAS costs. Total pre-tax charges of $487 million and $96 million related to the MOU are reflected as a loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations. The pre-tax charges for the year ended December 31, 2023, are primarily driven by the definitive agreement reached in June 2023 by Chemours, Corteva, EIDP and DuPont to comprehensively resolve all PFAS-related claims of a defined class of U.S. public water systems, (the “Water District Settlement Agreement”) for $1.185 billion in cash to be paid to a Qualified Settlement Fund, (the “Water District Settlement Fund”) of which DuPont is responsible for $400 million. DuPont’s $400 million contribution was made in the third quarter 2023 and is reflected in “Restricted cash and cash equivalents “on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2023. The increase in pre-tax charges also reflects the agreement by Chemours, Corteva and DuPont with the State of Ohio in which the three companies agreed to pay $110 million of which DuPont’s portion is $39 million. The Ohio agreement triggers a supplemental payment of $25 million to the State of Delaware related to an agreement reached in 2021 of which the Company’s portion is $9 million. See Note 16 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Long-Lived Asset and Indefinite-Lived Asset Impairments In connection with the M&M Divestitures, in the first quarter of 2022 a portion of an equity method investment was reclassified to “Assets of discontinued operations” within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The reclassification served as a triggering event requiring the Company to perform an impairment analysis on the retained portion of the equity method investment held within “Investments and noncurrent receivables” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result of the analysis the Company recorded an impairment charge of $94 million ($65 million net of tax) in “Restructuring and asset related charges - net” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 related to the Electronics & Industrial segment. See Notes 6 and 14 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Dividends During 2023, the Board of Directors authorized and paid quarterly dividends of $0.36 per share to shareholders of record in the first, second, third and fourth quarters, respectively. The DuPont Board of Directors on February 5, 2024 declared a first quarter 2024 dividend of $0.38 per share, a 6 percent per share increase versus the first quarter 2023 dividend, payable on March 15, 2024, to holders of record at the close of business on February 29, 2024. 32 Share Buyback Program In February 2022, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share buyback program, with an expiration date in March 2023. At the end of the third quarter 2022, the Company had repurchased and retired a total of 11.9 million shares for $750 million under the 2022 Share Buyback Program, with $250 million remaining on the authorization. The remaining $250 million was completed in 2022 as part of the Company's $3.25B ASR Transaction discussed below. On November 7, 2022, DuPont’s Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $5 billion of common stock (the "$5B Share Buyback Program") in addition to the $250 million remaining under the Company’s 2022 Share Buyback Program. The new repurchase program expires on June 30, 2024, unless extended or shortened by the Board of Directors. On November 10, 2022, DuPont entered into an accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") transaction with three financial counterparties for the repurchase of an aggregate of approximately $3.25 billion (the "$3.25B ASR Transaction"). In accordance with the terms of the agreements with the counterparties, DuPont received initial deliveries of 38.8 million shares in the aggregate, which were retired immediately and were recorded as a reduction to retained earnings. The $3.25B ASR transaction was funded with cash on hand from the M&M Divestiture. In connection with the completion of the transaction, the remaining $613 million was settled as a forward contract indexed to DuPont common stock at the time of settlement, classified within stockholders’ equity. At the completion of the $3.25B ASR Transaction, the Company had repurchased and retired a total of 46.8 million shares at an average price of $69.44 per share. In the third quarter 2023, DuPont entered into an ASR agreement with three financial counterparties to repurchase an aggregate of $2.0 billion of common stock (the "$2B ASR Transaction"). DuPont paid an aggregate of $2.0 billion to the counterparties and received initial deliveries of 21.2 million shares in aggregate of DuPont common stock, which were retired immediately and recorded as a reduction to retained earnings of $1.6 billion. The remaining $400 million was evaluated as an unsettled forward contract indexed to DuPont common stock, classified within stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2023. Subsequent to year end, in the first quarter of 2024, the accelerated share repurchase agreements under the $2B ASR Transaction were settled. The settlement resulted in the delivery of 6.7 million additional shares of DuPont common stock, which were retired immediately and will be recorded as a reduction to retained earnings in the first quarter of 2024. In total, the Company repurchased 27.9 million shares at an average price of $71.67 per share under the $2B ASR Transaction. The completion of the $2B ASR Transaction completes the $5B Share Buyback Program and the Company's stock repurchase authorization. Subsequent to year end, in the first quarter 2024, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $1 billion of common stock (“the $1B Program”). Under the $1B Program, repurchases may be made from time to time on the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions off market, including additional ASR agreements in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. The $1B Program terminates on June 30, 2025, unless extended or shortened by the Board of Directors. The timing and number of shares to be repurchased will depend on factors such as the share price, economic and market conditions, and corporate and regulatory requirements. In the first quarter 2024, DuPont entered an ASR agreement with one counterparty for the repurchase of about $500 million of common stock; DuPont received initial deliveries in February 2024, of 6 million shares of common stock. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average stock price for DuPont common stock during the term of the ASR agreement, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement is expected in the second quarter of 2024. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 introduced a 1 percent nondeductible excise tax imposed on the net value of certain stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The net value is determined by the fair market value of the stock repurchased during the tax year, reduced by the fair market value of stock issued during the tax year. The Company recorded total excise tax of $21.2 million as a reduction to retained earnings for the year ended December 31, 2023. In the first quarter of 2021, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $1.5 billion share buyback program, which expired on June 30, 2022 (the "2021 Share Buyback Program"). In the first quarter of 2022, the Company purchased 5.1 million shares for approximately $375 million, thereby completing the program. At the expiry of the 2021 Share Buyback Program, the Company had repurchased and retired a total of 19.6 million shares for $1.5 billion under the 2021 Share Buyback Program. 33 Interest Rate Swap Agreements In the second quarter of 2022, the Company entered into fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional principal amount totaling $1 billion to hedge changes in the fair value of the Company's long-term debt due to interest rate change movements. These swaps converted the $1 billion of the Company's $1.65 billion principal amount of fixed rate notes due 2038 into floating rate debt for the portion of their terms through 2032 with an interest rate based on the Secured Overnight Finance Rate (SOFR). Under the terms of the agreements, the Company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, fixed for floating interest amounts based on the agreed upon notional principal amount. The interest rate swaps are designated as fair value hedges and expire on November 15, 2032. For more information see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Programs 2023-2024 Restructuring Program In December 2023, the Company approved targeted restructuring actions to capture near-term cost reductions due to macroeconomic factors as well as to further simplify certain organizational structures following the Spectrum acquisition and Delrin® Divestiture (the "2023-2024 Restructuring Program"). For the year ended December 31, 2023, DuPont recorded a pre-tax charge related to the 2023-2024 Restructuring Program in the amount of $110 million, recognized in "Restructuring and asset related charges - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, comprised of $80 million of severance and related benefit costs and asset related charges of $30 million. At December 31, 2023, total liabilities related to the 2023-2024 Restructuring Program were $79 million for severance and related benefit costs, recognized in "Accrued and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 2022 Restructuring Program In October 2022, the Company approved targeted restructuring actions to capture near-term cost reductions and to further simplify certain organizational structures following the M&M Divestitures (the "2022 Restructuring Program"). DuPont recorded pre-tax charges related to the 2022 Restructuring Program in the amount of $96 million inception-to-date, recognized in "Restructuring and asset related charges - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, comprised of $82 million of severance and related benefit costs and asset related charges of $14 million. At December 31, 2023, total liabilities related to the 2022 Restructuring Program were $27 million for severance and related benefit costs, recognized in "Accrued and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 2022 Restructuring Program is considered substantially complete. 2021 Restructuring Actions In October 2021, the Company approved targeted restructuring actions to capture near term cost reductions (the "2021 Restructuring Actions"). DuPont recorded pre-tax charges related to the 2021 Restructuring Actions in the amount of $47 million inception-to-date, consisting of severance and related benefit costs of $27 million and asset related charges of $20 million. At December 31, 2023, total liabilities related to the 2021 Restructuring Actions were $1 million for severance and related benefits. The 2021 Restructuring Program is considered substantially complete. 34 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 1. Corporate & Other includes activities of the Retained Businesses and certain divested businesses including Biomaterials, Clean Technologies and Solamet®. 2. Europe, Middle East and Africa. 2023 versus 2022 The Company reported net sales for the year ended December 31, 2023 of $12.1 billion, down 7 percent from $13.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, due to an 8 percent decrease in volume and a 1 percent unfavorable currency impact partially offset by a 2 percent increase due to local price and product mix. Volume decrease was driven by Electronics & Industrial (down 11 percent) and Water and Protection (down 7 percent) partially offset by Corporate & Other (up 2 percent). Local price and product mix increased within Water & Protection (up 3 percent) and Corporate & Other (up 1 percent) and reminded flat in Electronics & Industrial. Currency was down 1 percent compared with the same period last year, primarily driven by Asia Pacific (down 2 percent) partially offset by EMEA (up 1 percent). 2022 versus 2021 The Company reported net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 of $13.0 billion, up 4 percent from $12.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021, due to a 7 percent increase due to local price and product mix, a 1 percent increase in volume, partially offset by a 3 percent unfavorable currency impact and a 1 percent decrease in portfolio and other. Local price and product mix increased across all operating segments, including within Water & Protection (up 12 percent), Electronics & Industrial (up 2 percent) and Corporate & Other (up 10 percent). Volume increase was driven by Electronics & Industrial (up 3 percent) partially offset by Water & Protection (down 1 percent), and Corporate & Other was flat. Portfolio and other changes declined 1 percent driven by declines within Corporate & Other (down 29 percent) due to the sale of the Biomaterials, Clean Technologies and Solamet® businesses, partially offset by the addition of Laird PM in Electronics & Industrial (up 5 percent). Currency was down 3 percent compared with the same period last year, primarily driven by EMEA (down 8 percent) and Asia Pacific (down 4 percent). Cost of Sales Cost of sales was $7.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, down from $8.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. Cost of sales decreased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily due to decreased sales volume and lower raw material, logistics and energy costs. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was 65 percent. For the year ended December 31, 2022, cost of sales was $8.4 billion, up from $8.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021. Cost of sales increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to higher raw materials and higher logistics and energy costs, increased sales volume and partially offset by currency impacts and a payroll tax credit recognized under the ERC of the CARES Act. Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 was 65 percent compared with 63 percent for the year ended December 31, 2021. 35 Research and Development Expense ("R&D") R&D expense was $508 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, down from $536 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and $557 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. R&D as a percentage of net sales was 4 percent for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. The decrease in R&D expense in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to lower personnel related expenses partially offset by the Spectrum Acquisition. The slight decline in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to a payroll tax credit recognized under the ERC of the CARES Act as well as currency fluctuations. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses ("SG&A") For the year ended December 31, 2023, SG&A expenses totaled $1,408 million, down from $1,467 million in the year ended December 31, 2022 and $1,602 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. SG&A as a percentage of net sales was 12 percent, 11 percent, and 13 percent for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease in SG&A costs in 2023 compared with 2022 was primarily due to lower Stranded Costs related to the M&M Divestiture, lower personnel related expenses and lower bad debt expense partially offset by the Spectrum Acquisition. The decrease in SG&A cost in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to currency fluctuations, lower personnel related expenses and a payroll tax credit recognized under the ERC of the CARES Act. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles was $600 million, $590 million and $566 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in amortization of intangibles in 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily due to the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in the Spectrum Acquisition in the third quarter of 2023 partially offset by the absence of amortization in 2023 from fully amortized assets. The increase in amortization of intangibles in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in the Laird PM Acquisition in the third quarter of 2021. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on intangible assets. Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net Restructuring and asset related charges - net were $146 million, $155 million and $50 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The activity for the year ended December 31, 2023 DuPont recorded a pre-tax charge related to the 2023-2024 Restructuring Program in the amount of $110 million . The activity for the year ended December 31, 2022 included a pre-tax charge related to the 2022 Restructuring Program in the amount of $61 million of severance and related benefit costs and a $94 million ($65 million net of tax) impairment related to an equity method investment within the Electronics & Industrial segment. The charges for the year ended December 31, 2021 included a $46 million charge related to the 2021 Restructuring Actions. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Goodwill Impairment Charges For the year ended December 31, 2023, goodwill impairment charges of $804 million related to the Water & Protection segment. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 there were no goodwill impairment charges. Acquisition, Integration and Separation Costs Acquisition, integration and separation costs were $20 million, $193 million and $81 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Acquisition, integration and separation costs primarily consist of financial advisory, information technology, legal, accounting, consulting, other professional advisory fees and other contractual transaction payments. For the year ended December 31, 2023 these costs were primarily related to Spectrum Acquisition. For the year ended December 31, 2022 these costs were primarily related to the Terminated Intended Rogers Acquisition, specifically the $162.5 million termination fee paid, the Biomaterials business unit divestiture and the prior year acquisition of Laird PM. Comparatively, for the year ended December 31, 2021 these costs were primarily associated with the acquisition of Laird PM and the divestitures of the Biomaterials, Clean Technologies and Solamet® business units. Equity in Earnings of Nonconsolidated Affiliates The Company's share of the earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates was $51 million, $75 million and $85 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease in earnings of nonconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 compared to the prior years is primarily due to lower equity earnings. 36 Sundry Income (Expense) - Net Sundry income (expense) - net includes a variety of income and expenses such as foreign currency exchange gains or losses, interest income, dividends from investments, gains and losses on divestiture and sales of investments and assets, non-operating pension and other post-employment benefit plan credits or costs, and certain litigation matters. Sundry income (expense) - net for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $102 million compared with $191 million and $145 million in the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The year ended December 31, 2023 included interest income of $155 million and a $19 million net gain on divestiture and sales of other assets, primarily related to a land sale within the Water & Protection segment, partially offset by foreign currency exchange losses of $73 million. The year ended December 31, 2022 included interest income of $50 million primarily due to higher cash on hand and marketable securities in the fourth quarter, income of $37 million related to the second quarter sale of a land use right within the Water & Protection segment, a $26 million gain on sale of the Biomaterials business unit recorded in the second quarter, income related to non-operating pension and other post-employment benefit plans of $28 million and foreign currency exchange gains of $15 million. The year ended December 31, 2021 included a net pre-tax benefit of $140 million associated with the sale of the Solamet® business unit within Corporate & Other, a pre-tax gain of $28 million related to the sale of assets within the Electronics & Industrial segment, income related to non-operating pension and other post-employment benefit plans of $30 million, partially offset by foreign currency exchange losses of $53 million, and miscellaneous expenses of $15 million. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Interest Expense Interest expense was $396 million, $492 million, and $525 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease in interest expense from the 2023 compared to 2022, is primarily due to the redemption of $2.5 billion fixed-rate long-term senior unsecured notes due in November 2023, the decrease in commercial paper borrowing and the absence of the structuring and the commitment fees on term loans related to the Terminated Intended Rogers Acquisition, partially offset by the increase in interest expense from the interest rate swap. The decrease in interest expense in 2022 compared to 2021 is primarily due to the redemption in the fourth quarter of 2022 of $2.5 billion of 2018 Senior Notes due in November 2023, the absence of interest in 2022 on the May 2022 Notes and the absence of the structuring fee on the term loan related to the Terminated Intended Rogers Acquisition, partially offset by increase in interest expense from commercial paper borrowings. Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (Benefit from) Provision for Income Taxes on Continuing Operations The Company's effective tax rate fluctuates based on, among other factors, where income is earned and the level of income relative to tax attributes. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company's effective tax rate was (5.8) percent on pre-tax income from continuing operations of $504 million. The effective tax rate differential for the year ended December 31, 2023, was principally the result the result of the non-tax-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $804 million in the fourth quarter partially offset by a $324 million tax benefit recorded in connection with an internal restructuring. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company's effective tax rate was 26.7 percent on pre-tax income from continuing operations of $1,448 million. The effective tax rate differential was driven by the U.S tax effect of foreign earnings and dividends, geographic mix of earnings and the tax impacts of acquisition, integration, and separation costs. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company's effective tax rate was 16.4 percent on pre-tax loss from continuing operations of $1,444 million. The effective tax rate differential was principally the result of a $59 million tax benefit related to the step-up in tax basis in the goodwill of the Company’s European regional headquarters legal entity. The underlying factors affecting the Company’s overall tax rate are summarized in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 SEGMENT RESULTS The revenues and certain expenses of the M&M Businesses are classified as discontinued operations in the current and historical periods. In addition, the Auto Adhesives & Fluids, MultibaseTM and Tedlar® product lines within the historical Mobility & Materials segment (the "Retained Businesses") are not included in the scope of the M&M Divestitures and are included in Corporate & Other. The costs of the M&M Businesses that are classified as discontinued operations include only direct operating expenses incurred prior to the November 1, 2022 M&M Divestiture and prior to the November 1, 2023 Delrin® Divestiture. Indirect costs, such as those related to corporate and shared service functions previously allocated to the M&M Businesses, do not meet the criteria for discontinued operations and remain reported within continuing operations. A portion of these indirect costs related to activities the Company continues to undertake post-closing of the M&M Divestitures, and for which it is reimbursed (“Future Reimbursable Indirect Costs”). In addition, a portion of these indirect costs relate to activities the Company performs post the close of the Delrin® Divestiture and for which it is reimbursed. Future Reimbursable Indirect Costs are reported within continuing operations but are excluded from operating EBITDA as defined below. The remaining portion of these indirect costs are not subject to future reimbursement (“Stranded Costs”). Stranded Costs are reported within continuing operations in Corporate & Other and are included within Operating EBITDA. On August 1, 2023, the Company completed the previously announced acquisition of Spectrum Plastics Group (“Spectrum”) from AEA Investors (the “Spectrum Acquisition”). Spectrum is part of the Electronics & Industrial segment. The Company's measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes is Operating EBITDA as this is the manner in which the Company's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") assesses performance and allocates resources. The Company defines Operating EBITDA as earnings (i.e., “Income from continuing operations before income taxes") before interest, depreciation, amortization, non-operating pension / other post-employment benefits (“OPEB”) / charges, and foreign exchange gains / losses, excluding Future Reimbursable Indirect Costs, and adjusted for significant items. 38 ELECTRONICS & INDUSTRIAL The Electronics & Industrial segment is a leading global supplier of differentiated materials and systems for a broad range of consumer electronics including mobile devices, television monitors, personal computers and electronics used in a variety of industries. The segment is a leading provider of materials and solutions for the fabrication and packaging of semiconductors and integrated circuits and provides innovative solutions for thermal management and electromagnetic shielding as well as metallization processes for metal finishing, decorative, and industrial applications. Electronics & Industrial is a leading provider of platemaking systems and photopolymer plates for the packaging graphics industry, digital printing inks and cutting-edge materials for the manufacturing of displays for organic light emitting diode ("OLED"). In addition, the segment produces innovative engineering polymer solutions, high performance parts, flexible packaging products, plastic and silicone extrusions, medical silicones, specialty lubricants and critical polymer-based components and devices for medical and other industrial markets. 2023 Versus 2022 Electronics & Industrial net sales were $5,337 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, down 10 percent from $5,917 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net sales decreased due to an 11 percent volume decline and a 1 percent currency headwind offset by a 2 percent increase in portfolio. Volume declines in Semiconductor Technologies were driven by inventory destocking and reduced semiconductor fabrication utilization rates due to ongoing consumer electronics demand weakness, led by China. Volume declines in Interconnect Solutions related to decreased spending on consumer and industrial electronics and related channel inventory destocking, both led by China. Within Industrial Solutions, volume declines were driven by channel inventory destocking within biopharma markets and continued lower demand in consumer electronics markets slightly offset by increased demand for OLED materials. The local price and product mix gains in Semiconductor Technologies and Industrial Solutions are a result of actions taken to offset cost inflation. These gains were offset by local price and product mix declines in Interconnect Solutions, including the impact of lower pass-through metals, as well as declines in OLED materials. The unfavorable currency impact is primarily driven by the Japanese yen and Chinese yuan. The portfolio impact primarily reflects the August 1, 2023 acquisition of Spectrum. Operating EBITDA was $1,472 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, down 20 percent compared with $1,836 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to decreased sales volumes, the impact of reduced production rates to better align inventory with demand, slightly offset by the earnings associated with Spectrum. 2022 Versus 2021 Electronics & Industrial net sales were $5,917 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, up 7 percent from $5,554 million for the year ended December, 31 2021. Net sales increased due to a 5 percent increase from portfolio changes, a 3 percent increase in volume, and a 2 percent increase in local price, and partially offset by a 3 percent unfavorable currency impact. The portfolio impact primarily reflects the July 1, 2021 acquisition of Laird PM. Volume growth was led by Semiconductor Technologies which was driven by strong end-market demand primarily due to continued transition to more advanced node technologies and high performance computing. Within Industrial Solutions, volume gains were driven by growth in healthcare and industrial-end markets as well as continued strength in electronics applications. Volumes within Interconnect Solutions were down due to weakness in consumer electronics and smartphones. Operating EBITDA was $1,836 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, up 4 percent compared with $1,758 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 driven by strong volume growth and the acquisition of Laird PM and partially offset by higher raw material, logistics and energy costs, as well as weaker product mix in Interconnect Solutions. 39 WATER & PROTECTION The Water & Protection segment is a leading provider of engineered products and integrated systems for a number of industries including worker safety, water purification and separation, aerospace, energy, medical packaging and building materials. The segment satisfies the growing global needs of businesses, governments, and consumers for solutions that make life safer, healthier, and better. By uniting market-driven science with the strength of highly regarded brands, the segment strives to bring new products and solutions to solve customers' needs faster, better and more cost effectively. 2023 Versus 2022 Water & Protection net sales were $5,633 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, down 5 percent from $5,957 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 due to a 7 percent decline in volume and a 1 percent unfavorable currency impact, partially offset by a 3 percent increase in local price and product mix. Volume declines within Safety Solutions were due to channel inventory destocking, primarily in medical packaging. Shelter Solutions volume declines were driven by weak demand in construction markets including channel inventory destocking. Water Solutions volume declines were primarily due to distributor destocking and weaker industrial demand in China. Local price and product mix increased across all businesses and in all regions as the result of broad-based actions taken in the prior year to offset cost inflation. The unfavorable currency impact is primarily driven by the Chinese yuan and the Japanese yen. Operating EBITDA was $1,388 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, down 3 percent compared with $1,431 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 driven by decreased sales volumes, the impact of reduced production rates and unfavorable currency impacts partially offset by net pricing gains. The currency impacts were primarily driven by the Chinese yuan and the Japanese yen. 2022 Versus 2021 Water & Protection net sales were $5,957 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, up 7 percent from $5,552 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 due to a 12 percent increase in local price, partially offset by a 4 percent unfavorable currency impact and a 1 percent decrease in volume. Portfolio was flat. Local price increased across all businesses and in all regions, led by Shelter Solutions and Safety Solutions. Volume growth in Water Solutions was more than offset by a decline in Safety Solutions while Shelter Solutions was flat. Water Solutions volume gains were driven by strong global demand across all technologies led by reverse osmosis membranes and ultra filtration. Safety Solutions volume declined primarily as a result of lower demand for TYVEK® garments. Shelter Solutions was flat due to weakness in the construction market largely in North America and EMEA. Operating EBITDA was $1,431 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, up 3 percent compared with $1,385 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 as pricing actions and more disciplined cost control more than offset higher raw material, logistics and energy costs, unfavorable impact from currency, and lower volumes. 40 Corporate & Other Corporate & Other includes sales and activity of the Retained Businesses including the Auto Adhesives & Fluids, Multibase TM and Tedlar® product lines. Related to the M&M Divestitures, Corporate & Other includes Stranded Costs and Future Reimbursable Indirect Costs. The results of Corporate & Other include the sales and activity of the Biomaterials (prior to its May 2022 divestiture), Clean Technologies (prior to its December 2021 divestiture), and Solamet® (prior to its June 2021 divestiture) business units. Corporate & Other also includes certain enterprise and governance activities including non-allocated corporate overhead costs and support functions, leveraged services, non-business aligned litigation expenses and other costs not absorbed by reportable segments. 2024 OUTLOOK For the first quarter of 2024, the Company anticipates additional inventory destocking within our industrial-based businesses along with continued weak demand in China. Sequentially, from first quarter to the second quarter of 2024 the Company anticipates some inventory destocking abatement, seasonality factors and realization of cost savings. For the full year 2024, the Company anticipates an electronics market recovery, including improvement in semiconductor fabrication utilization rates, as well as improved orders within industrial markets as customer inventory levels normalize. The Company continues to closely monitor macroeconomic as well as geopolitical developments. 41 LIQUIDITY & CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company continually reviews its sources of liquidity and debt portfolio and may make adjustments to one or both to ensure adequate liquidity and increase the Company’s optionality and financing efficiency as it relates to financing cost and balancing terms/maturities. The Company’s primary source of incremental liquidity is cash flows from operating activities. Management expects the generation of cash from operations and the ability to access the debt capital markets and other sources of liquidity will continue to provide sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet the Company’s and its subsidiaries' obligations as they come due. However, DuPont is unable to predict the extent of macroeconomic related impacts which depend on uncertain and unpredictable future developments. In light of this uncertainty, the Company has taken steps to further ensure liquidity and capital resources, as discussed below. The Company's cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 were $2.4 billion and $3.7 billion, respectively, of which $1.3 billion at December 31, 2023 and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2022 were held by subsidiaries in foreign countries, including United States territories. For each of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an assertion regarding the amount of earnings intended for permanent reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States. The Company held no investments in marketable securities at December 31, 2023 and $1,302 million at December 31, 2022. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at December 31, 2023 compared to December 31, 2022 was due to cash used in the current year to fund the $2B ASR transaction, the Spectrum Acquisition, Restricted Cash in connection with the Water District Settlement Agreement and general corporate purposes, partially offset by the proceeds from the Delrin® Divestiture. Refer to subsequent paragraphs for further discussion of the drivers of the change in cash, cash equivalents. Total debt at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 was $7.8 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to the repayment of the 2018 Senior Notes of $300 million due in November 2023, partially offset by the mark to market impact to the fair value of an interest rate swap used to hedge changes in the fair value of the hedged item due to changes in the SOFR as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, the Company is contractually obligated to make future cash payments of $7.9 billion and $4.9 billion associated with principal and interest, respectively, on debt obligations. Related to the principal, all payments will be due subsequent to 2024. Related to interest, $394 million will be due in the next twelve months and the remainder will be due subsequent to 2024. The majority of interest obligations will be due in 2029 or later. Revolving Credit Facilities On April 12, 2022, the Company entered into a $2.5 billion five-year revolving credit facility (the "Five-Year Revolving Credit Facility") and terminated its $3 billion five-year revolving credit facility entered in May 2019. The Five-Year Revolving Credit Facility is generally expected to remain undrawn and serve as a backstop to the Company’s commercial paper and letter of credit issuance. Also on April 12, 2022, the Company entered into an updated $1.0 billion 364-day revolving credit facility (the “2022 $1B Revolving Credit Facility") and terminated its $1.0 billion 364-day revolving credit facility entered in April 2021 (the “2021 $1B Revolving Credit Facility"). The 2022 $1B Revolving Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes. In July 2022, the Company drew down $600 million under the 2022 $1B Revolving Credit Facility in order to facilitate certain intercompany internal restructuring steps related to the M&M Divestiture. The Company repaid the borrowing in September 2022. In April 2023, the Company's 2022 $1B Revolving Credit Facility expired. In May 2023, the Company entered into a new $1 billion 364-day revolving credit facility (the "2023 $1B Revolving Credit Facility"). The 2023 $1B Revolving Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes. There were no drawdowns under the facility during the year ended December 31, 2023. The Company intends to enter a new $1 billion 364-day revolving credit facility on or about the expiration of the 2023 $1B Revolving Credit Facility. 42 Repayment of Senior Notes In November 2022, the Company redeemed in full $2.5 billion in fixed-rate long term senior unsecured notes due 2023 at a redemption price equal to 100 percent of the aggregated principal amount plus the accrued and unpaid interest. The redemption was funded with the net proceeds from the M&M Divestiture. In November 2023, the $300 million Floating Rate Senior Unsecured Notes matured and was repaid at par plus the accrued and unpaid interest. The Company funded the repayment with cash on hand. Terminated Intended Rogers Acquisition In connection with the Terminated Intended Rogers Acquisition, on November 22, 2021, the Company entered into a two-year senior unsecured committed term loan agreement in the amount of $5.2 billion. In October 2022, the facility was amended to extend the lending commitment (as amended the "Amended 2021 Term Loan Facility"). On November 1, 2022, the M&M Divestiture closed and, therefore, based on the terms of the Amended 2021 Term Loan Facility, the commitment was terminated. Separately, on November 1, 2022 the Company announced the termination of the previously announced agreement to acquire the outstanding shares of Rogers. The Company paid Rogers a termination fee of $162.5 million in accordance with the agreement on November 2, 2022. The termination fee was paid with cash on hand and recorded in the "Acquisition, integration and separation costs" within the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Commercial Paper In April 2022, DuPont downsized its authorized commercial paper program from $3.0 billion to $2.5 billion (the “DuPont Commercial Paper Program”). At December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company had no issuances outstanding of commercial paper. The Company’s issuance under the Commercial Paper Program was used for general corporate purposes. Term Loan On February 1, 2021, the Company terminated its fully drawn $3.0 billion term loan facilities. The termination triggered the repayment of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of $3.0 billion, plus accrued and unpaid interest through and including January 31, 2021. The Company funded the repayment with proceeds from the Special Cash Payment. Spectrum Acquisition On August 1, 2023, the Company completed the Spectrum Acquisition for a net purchase price of approximately $1,792 million, including a net upward adjustment of approximately $43.1 million for acquired cash and net working capital, among other items. The Company utilized existing cash balances to complete the acquisition. Water District Settlement Agreement The Company utilized the MOU escrow account balance of approximately $100 million and cash on hand to make its $400 million contribution to the Water District Settlement Fund. The $400 million contribution, plus interest, to the Water District Settlement Fund is reflected as "Restricted cash and cash equivalents" on the Condensed Consolidated Balance sheets. The $400 million contribution will be reflected as a cash outflow within cash flows from discontinued operations after the entry of judgment becomes final and non-appealable. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Delrin® Divestiture On November 1, 2023, the Company closed the sale of the Delrin® business to TJC LP ("TJC"), (the “Delrin® Divestiture”). DuPont received cash proceeds of approximately $1.28 billion, which includes certain customary transaction adjustments, a note receivable of $350 million and acquired a 19.9 percent non-controlling equity interest in Derby Group Holdings LLC, (“Derby”). The customary transaction adjustments include $27 million of cash transferred with the Delrin® Divestiture for which DuPont was reimbursed at closing resulting in net cash proceeds of $1.25 billion. TJC, through its subsidiaries, holds the 80.1 percent controlling interest in Derby. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Laird Performance Materials On July 1, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Laird PM from Advent International for aggregate consideration of $2.4 billion, which reflects adjustments, including for acquired cash and net working capital. The acquisition is part of the Interconnect Solutions business within the Electronics & Industrial segment. The Company paid for the acquisition from existing cash balances. 43 Credit Ratings The Company's credit ratings impact its access to the debt capital markets and cost of capital. The Company remains committed to maintaining a strong financial position with a balanced financial policy focused on maintaining a strong investment-grade rating and driving shareholder value and remuneration. At January 31, 2024, DuPont's credit ratings were as follows: The Company's indenture covenants include customary limitations on liens, sale and leaseback transactions, and mergers and consolidations, subject to certain limitations. The senior unsecured notes (the "2018 Senior Notes") also contain customary default provisions. The Five-Year Revolving Credit Facility and 2023 $1B Revolving Credit Facility contain a financial covenant, typical for companies with similar credit ratings, requiring that the ratio of Total Indebtedness to Total Capitalization for the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries not exceed 0.60. At December 31, 2023, the Company was in compliance with this financial covenant. Summary of Cash Flows Beginning in the second quarter of 2023, the Company has segregated the cash flows from discontinued operations from the cash flows from continuing operations in accordance with ASC 230, Statement of Cash Flows. The Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows have been recast for all periods to reflect the change in presentation. The Company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, are summarized in the following table. Cash Flows provided by Operating Activities - Continuing Operations Cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $2,191 million, $1,249 million and $1,846 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2023 compared with 2022 , primarily from improvements in working capital. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2022 was primarily driven by the increase in working capital. The table below reflects net working capital on a continuing operations basis: 1. Net working capital has been presented to exclude the assets and liabilities related to the Delrin® Divestiture. The assets and liabilities related to the Delrin® Divestiture are presented as assets of discontinued operations and liabilities of discontinued operations, respectively. 44 Cash Flows provided by Investing Activities - Continuing Operations Cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations in 2023 was $172 million compared to cash provided by investing activities of $9,004 million in 2022. The decrease in cash provided from investing activities in 2023 versus the 2022 is primarily attributable to the absence of cash proceeds received from the M&M Divestiture and cash paid for the Spectrum acquisition, partially offset by proceeds from the Delrin® Divestiture, net of cash divested and the absence of cash used in the purchase of investments and an increase in cash provided by the proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. The increase in cash provided from investing activities in 2022 versus the prior year is primarily attributable to the cash proceeds received from the M&M Divestiture, a decrease in cash used in acquisition of property and business and a decrease in purchases of investments partially offset by the absence of proceeds from sale and maturities of investments. Cash used for investing activities in 2021 of $2,298 million was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Laird PM. Capital expenditures totaled $619 million, $662 million and $788 million for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Company expects 2024 capital expenditures to be about $600 million. The Company may adjust its spending throughout the year as economic conditions develop. Cash Flows used for Financing Activities - Continuing Operations Cash used for financing activities of continuing operations in 2023 was $2,989 million compared to cash used for financing activities of $7,646 million in 2022. The decrease in cash used for financing activities in 2023 versus the 2022 is primarily attributable to the decrease in cash used for repurchases of common stocks and decrease in the payment of long-term debt. The increase in cash used for financing activities in 2022 versus the prior year is primarily driven by the increase in cash used for repurchases of common stocks and repayment of short-term borrowings mostly offset by a decrease in cash used for the payment of long-term debt. In 2021, cash used by financing activities was $7,589 million, primarily driven by the cash used for the repayment of long-term debt and repurchases of common stock. Cash Flows from Discontinued Operations Cash used from discontinued operations was $306 million compared with $763 million in the same period last year. The cash used from discontinued operations includes MOU activity, refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The activity for the year ended December 31, 2023, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the cash flows of Delrin® as discontinued operations. The activity for the year ended December 31, 2022, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows present the financial results of the M&M Businesses as discontinued operations. In 2021, cash provided by discontinued operations of $1,414 million reflects activity of the M&M Businesses and the N&B business including $1.25 billion of proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt transferred to IFF at split-off. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Dividends The following table provides dividends paid to common shareholders for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021: The DuPont Board of Directors on February 5, 2024 declared a first quarter 2024 dividend of $0.38 per share, a 6 percent per share increase versus the first quarter 2023 dividend, payable on March 15, 2024, to holders of record at the close of business on February 29, 2024. Share Buyback Programs On February 8, 2022, the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2022 Share Buyback Program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $1 billion of common stock with a termination date of March 31, 2023. At the end of the third quarter of 2022, the Company had repurchased and retired a total of 11.9 million shares for $750 million under the 2022 Share Buyback Program. In November 2022, DuPont’s Board of Directors approved the $5B Share Buyback Program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $5 billion of common stock with a termination date of June 30, 2024. 45 In the fourth quarter 2022, DuPont entered into ASR agreements with three financial counterparties (the "$3.25B ASR Transaction"). DuPont paid with cash on hand an aggregate of $3.25 billion to the counterparties and received initial deliveries of 38.8 million shares in aggregate of DuPont common stock, which were retired immediately and recorded as a reduction to retained earnings of $2.6 billion. The $3.25B ASR Transaction was completed during the third quarter 2023 with DuPont receiving and retiring an additional 8.0 million shares of DuPont common stock. In connection with the completion the remaining $613 million based on the market price of the shares at the time of delivery was settled as a forward contract indexed to DuPont common stock at the time of settlement, classified within stockholders’ equity. At the completion of the $3.25B ASR Transaction, the Company had repurchased and retired a total of 46.8 million shares at an average price of $69.44 per share. In the third quarter 2023, DuPont entered into accelerated share repurchase agreements with three financial counterparties to repurchase an aggregate of $2.0 billion of common stock (the "$2B ASR Transaction"). DuPont paid an aggregate of $2.0 billion to the counterparties and received initial deliveries of 21.2 million shares in aggregate of DuPont common stock, which were retired immediately and recorded as a reduction to retained earnings of $1.6 billion. The remaining $400 million was evaluated as an unsettled forward contract indexed to DuPont common stock, classified within stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2023. The accelerated repurchase agreements under the $2B ASR Transaction were settled during the first quarter of 2024. The settlement resulted in the delivery of 6.7 million additional shares of DuPont common stock, which were retired immediately and will be recorded as a reduction of retained earnings in the first quarter of 2024. In total, the Company repurchased 27.9 million shares at an average price of $71.67 per share under the $2B ASR Transaction. The completion of the $2B ASR Transaction completes the $5B Share Buyback Program. Subsequent to year end, in the first quarter 2024, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the repurchase and retirement of up to $1 billion of common stock (“the $1B Program”). Under the $1B Program, repurchases may be made from time to time on the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions off market, including additional ASR agreements in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. The $1B Program terminates on June 30, 2025, unless extended or shortened by the Board of Directors. The timing and number of shares to be repurchased will depend on factors such as the share price, economic and market conditions, and corporate and regulatory requirements. In the first quarter 2024, consistent with its previously announced intention, DuPont entered into an ASR agreement with one counterparty for the repurchase of about $500 million of common stock; DuPont received initial deliveries in February 2024, of 6.0 million shares of common stock. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average stock price for DuPont common stock during the term of the ASR agreement, less an agreed upon discount. Final settlement is expected in the second quarter 2024. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 introduced a 1 percent nondeductible excise tax imposed on the net value of certain stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The net value is determined by the fair market value of the stock repurchased during the tax year, reduced by the fair market value of stock issued during the tax year. The Company recorded total excise tax of $21.2 million as a reduction to retained earnings for the year ended December 31, 2023. In the first quarter of 2021, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a $1.5 billion share buyback program, which expires on June 30, 2022 ("2021 Share Buyback Program"). At the expiry of the 2021 Share Buyback Program, the Company had repurchased and retired a total of 19.6 million shares for $1.5 billion under the 2021 Share Buyback Program. See Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional information. Pension and Other Post-Employment Plans The Company's funding policy is to contribute to defined benefit pension plans based on pension funding laws and local country requirements. Contributions exceeding funding requirements may be made at the Company's discretion. The Company expects to contribute approximately $57 million to its pension plans in 2024. The amount and timing of the Company’s actual future contributions will depend on applicable funding requirements, discount rates, investment performance, plan design, and various other factors, separations and distributions. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company’s pension plans. As of December 31, 2023, the Company is contractually obligated to make future cash contributions of $614 million related to pension and other post-employment benefit plans. $57 million will be due in the next twelve months and the remainder will be due subsequent to 2024 with the majority due subsequent to 2028. 46 Restructuring In December 2023, the Company approved targeted restructuring actions to capture near-term cost reductions due to macroeconomic factors as well as to further simplify certain organizational structures following the Spectrum acquisition and Delrin® Divestiture (the "2023-2024 Restructuring Program"). For the year ended December 31, 2023, DuPont recorded a pre-tax charge related to the 2023-2024 Restructuring Program in the amount of $110 million, recognized in "Restructuring and asset related charges - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, comprised of $80 million of severance and related benefit costs and asset related charges of $30 million. At December 31, 2023, total liabilities related to the 2023-2024 Restructuring Program were $79 million for severance and related benefit costs, recognized in "Accrued and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In October 2022, the Company approved targeted restructuring actions to capture near-term cost reductions and to further simplify certain organizational structures following the M&M Divestitures (the "2022 Restructuring Program"). For the year ended December 31, 2023, DuPont recorded a pre-tax charge related to the 2022 Restructuring Program in the amount of $35 million, recognized in "Restructuring and asset related charges - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, comprised of severance and related benefit costs. At December 31, 2023, total liabilities related to the 2022 Restructuring Program were $27 million for severance and related benefit costs, recognized in "Accrued and other current liabilities" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Actions related to the 2022 Restructuring Program are substantially complete. In October 2021, the Company approved targeted restructuring actions to capture near term cost reductions (the "2021 Restructuring Actions"). For the years ended December 31, 2021 through December 31, 2023, DuPont recorded pre-tax charges inception to date related to the 2021 Restructuring Actions in the amounts of $47 million recognized in "Restructuring and asset related charges - net" in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, comprised of $27 million of severance and related benefit costs and $20 million of asset related charges. At December 31, 2023, total liabilities related to the 2021 Restructuring Actions were $1 million for severance and related benefit costs. Actions related to the 2021 Restructuring Program are substantially complete. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Company's restructuring programs. Other Off-balance Sheet Arrangements The MOU Cost Sharing Agreement In connection with the cost sharing arrangement entered into as part of the MOU, the companies agreed to establish an escrow account to support and manage potential future eligible PFAS costs. Subject to the terms of the arrangement, contributions to the escrow account will be made annually by Chemours, DuPont and Corteva through 2028. Over such period, Chemours will deposit a total of $500 million into the account and DuPont and Corteva, together, will deposit an additional $500 million pursuant to the terms of their existing Letter Agreement. As of June 30, 2023, DuPont had deposited an aggregate of $100 million into the MOU Escrow Account all of which it used to fund in part its $400 million contribution to the Water District Settlement Fund. As a result, $405 million, including interest, is reflected in "Restricted cash and cash equivalents" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2023. DuPont's aggregate MOU escrow deposits of $100 million excluding interest, at December 31, 2022 is reflected in "Restricted cash and cash equivalents - noncurrent" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. As of December 31, 2023, the Company expected to make cash payments related to qualified PFAS spend of $30 million in the next twelve months. Additional information regarding the MOU and funding of the escrow account can be found in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Contractual Obligations Purchase obligations represents enforceable and legally binding agreements in excess of $1 million to purchase goods or services that specify fixed or minimum quantities; fixed minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the agreement. As of December 31, 2023, the Company is contractually obligated to make future cash payments of $113 million related to purchase obligations, of which $49 million will be due in the next twelve months and the remainder will be due subsequent to 2024. Lease obligations represents future finance and operating lease payments. As of December 31, 2023, obligations of future lease payments are $567 million, of which $112 million will be due in the next twelve months and remainder will be due subsequent to 2024. 47 Environmental remediation obligations represents costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters and Non-PFAS clean-up responsibilities. As of December 31, 2023, the Company is contractually obligated to make future cash payments of $148 million, of which $46 million will be due in the next twelve months and remainder will be due subsequent to 2024. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Other miscellaneous obligations includes liabilities related to deferred compensation and other noncurrent liabilities. As of December 31, 2023, the Company is contractually obligated to make future cash payments of $97 million related to other miscellaneous obligations, the majority of which is due subsequent to 2024. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements. 48 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The Company's significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management believes that the application of these policies on a consistent basis enables the Company to provide the users of the financial statements with useful and reliable information about the Company's operating results and financial condition. The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts, including, but not limited to, receivable and inventory valuations, impairment of tangible and intangible assets, long-term employee benefit obligations, income taxes, restructuring liabilities, environmental matters and litigation. Management's estimates are based on historical experience, facts and circumstances available at the time and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable. The Company reviews these matters and reflects changes in estimates as appropriate. Management believes that the following represent some of the more critical judgment areas in the application of the Company's accounting policies which could have a material effect on the Company's financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Pension Plans and Other Post-Employment Benefits Accounting for employee benefit plans involves numerous assumptions and estimates. Discount rate and expected return on plan assets are two critical assumptions in measuring the cost and benefit obligation of the Company's pension plans. Management reviews these two key assumptions when plans are re-measured. These and other assumptions are updated periodically to reflect the actual experience and expectations on a plan specific basis as appropriate. As permitted by GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated on a plan-by-plan basis and to the extent that such differences exceed 10 percent of the greater of the plan's benefit obligation or the applicable plan assets, the excess is amortized over the average remaining service period of active employees or the average remaining life expectancy of the inactive participants if all or almost all of a plan’s participants are inactive. For the majority of the benefit plans, the Company utilizes the Aon AA corporate bond yield curves to determine the discount rate, applicable to each country, at the measurement date. The Company establishes strategic asset allocation percentage targets and appropriate benchmarks for significant asset classes in accordance with the laws and practices of those countries. Where appropriate, asset-liability studies are also taken into consideration. For plans, the long-term expected return on plan assets pension expense is determined using the fair value of assets. The following table highlights the potential impact on the Company's pre-tax earnings due to changes in certain key assumptions with respect to the Company's pension plans based on assets and liabilities on a continuing operations basis at December 31, 2023: Additional information with respect to pension plans, liabilities and assumptions is discussed under "Long-term Employee Benefits" and in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Legal Commitments and Contingencies The Company's results of operations could be affected by significant litigation adverse to the Company, including product liability claims, patent infringement and antitrust claims, and claims for third-party property damage or personal injury stemming from alleged environmental torts. The Company records accruals for legal matters, including its obligations under the MOU as impacted by the Letter Agreement, when the information available indicates that it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management makes adjustments to these accruals to reflect the impact and status of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of counsel and other information and events that may pertain to a particular matter. Predicting the outcome of claims and lawsuits and estimating related costs and exposure involves substantial uncertainties that could cause actual costs to vary materially from estimates. In making determinations of likely outcomes of litigation matters, management considers many factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, the nature of specific claims including unasserted claims, the Company's experience with similar types of claims, the jurisdiction in which the matter is filed, input from outside legal counsel, the likelihood of resolving the matter through alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, and the matter's current status. Considerable judgment is required in determining whether to establish a litigation accrual when an adverse judgment is rendered against the Company in a court proceeding. In such situations, the Company will 49 not recognize a loss if, based upon a thorough review of all relevant facts and information, management believes that it is probable that the pending judgment will be successfully overturned on appeal. A detailed discussion of significant litigation matters is contained in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes The breadth of the Company's operations and the global complexity of tax regulations require assessments of uncertainties and judgments in estimating taxes the Company will ultimately pay. The final taxes paid are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, outcomes of tax litigation and resolution of disputes arising from federal, state and international tax audits in the normal course of business. The resolution of these uncertainties may result in adjustments to the Company's tax assets and tax liabilities. It is reasonably possible that changes to the Company’s global unrecognized tax benefits could be significant; however, due to the uncertainty regarding the timing of completion of audits and the possible outcomes, a current estimate of the range of increases or decreases that may occur within the next twelve months cannot be made. The Company has ongoing federal, state and international income tax audits in various jurisdictions and evaluates uncertain tax positions that may be challenged by local tax authorities. The impact, if any, of these audits to the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits is not estimable. Deferred income taxes result from differences between the financial and tax basis of the Company's assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the need for and magnitude of appropriate valuation allowances against deferred tax assets. The realization of these assets is dependent on generating future taxable income, as well as successful implementation of various tax planning strategies. For example, changes in facts and circumstances that alter the probability that the Company will realize deferred tax assets could result in recording a valuation allowance, thereby reducing the deferred tax asset and generating a deferred tax expense in the relevant period. In some situations, these changes could be material. At December 31, 2023, the Company had a net deferred tax liability balance of $818 million, net of a valuation allowance of $738 million. Realization of deferred tax assets is expected to occur over an extended period of time. As a result, changes in tax laws, assumptions with respect to future taxable income, and tax planning strategies could result in adjustments to deferred tax assets. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details related to the deferred tax liability balance. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 ("IRA") was signed into law on August 16, 2022 and is effective to applicable corporations beginning in 2023. The IRA introduced a new 15 percent corporate alternative minimum tax (“CAMT”), based on adjusted financial statement income of certain large corporations. Applicable corporations will be allowed to claim a credit for the minimum tax paid against regular tax in future years. The Company is an applicable corporation subject to the CAMT requirements however, the Company did not incur a CAMT liability for 2023. The IRA also established an excise tax that imposes a 1 percent surcharge on stock repurchases, effective January 1, 2023. Refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the 1 percent surcharge on stock repurchases. Assessment of Income Tax Impacts related to 2023 Internal Legal Entity Restructurings During 2023, the Company completed certain internal restructurings which resulted in estimated income tax impacts from a United States federal, state, and foreign jurisdiction perspective. The estimated tax impact of certain internal restructurings was calculated using valuations of legal entities and intellectual property, which involved the use of the income approach and assumptions, including, projected revenue growth rate, EBITDA margin, the weighted average costs of capital, capitalization rate, royalty rates, tax rate, capital expenditures, and terminal growth rates. The Company recorded a deferred income tax benefit of $324 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, related to these internal restructurings. Assessment of Income Tax Impacts related to the M&M Divestitures In connection with the M&M Divestitures, the Company completed certain internal restructurings which resulted in estimated income tax impacts from a United States federal, state and foreign jurisdiction perspective. The estimated tax impact of certain internal restructurings was calculated using valuations of components of legal entities and intellectual property, which involved the use of the income and/or market approach and assumptions, including, projected EBITDA, the weighted average costs of capital, royalty rates, tax rate, capital expenditures, and terminal growth rates for the income approach and projected EBITDA and market multiples for the market approach. The tax effect of these internal restructurings are included in the overall tax consequences of the M&M Divestitures. 50 The Company recorded net income tax expense of $21 million and $127 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, related to the estimated tax impact of these internal restructurings from a United States and foreign jurisdiction perspective. Although the Company believes the estimated tax impacts are reasonable and appropriate, these estimates required significant judgment regarding the application of tax laws and regulations. Upon final resolution by the United States Internal Revenue Service or foreign tax authority through audit or litigation, the Company’s income tax calculations and related filing positions regarding certain elements of these transactions could be different, which could have a material impact on the Company. Valuation of Acquired Intangible Assets The assets and liabilities of acquired businesses are measured at their estimated fair values at the dates of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired, including identified intangibles, is recorded as goodwill. The determination and allocation of fair value to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is based on various assumptions and valuation methodologies requiring considerable management judgment, including estimates based on historical information, current market data and future expectations. The principal assumptions in these analyses include projected revenue, gross margins, selling, administrative, research and development expenses (SARD), depreciation, changes in net working capital, capital expenditures, the weighted average cost of capital, the terminal growth rates, and the tax rates for the income approach. For the market approach, the company uses projected EBITDA and derived multiples from comparable market transactions. The estimates are deemed reasonable by management based on information available at the dates of acquisition; however, estimates are i nherently uncertain. The Company engaged an independent third-party valuation specialist to assist with the allocation of the total purchase price for the acquisition of Spectrum Plastics Group ("Spectrum") to the fair value of the net assets acquired. This required the use of several assumptions and estimates, including, but not limited to, the customer attrition rate, the discount rate, net sales attributable to existing customers, the economic life, the EBITDA margin, the contributory asset charge, and the projected revenue for the customer-related intangible asset, the discount rate, the projected revenue, the royalty rate, the obsolescence rate, and the economic life for the developed technology, and the discount rate, the projected revenue, the royalty rate, and the economic life for the trademark/tradename. Although the Company believes the assumptions and estimates made were reasonable and appropriate, these estimates require significant judgment by management and are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from Spectrum management. For further information see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessments of Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill Assessment of the potential impairment of goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investments in nonconsolidated affiliates, and other assets is an integral part of the Company's normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of these assets is significantly dependent on numerous assumptions and reflects management's best estimates at a particular point in time. The dynamic economic environments in which the Company's diversified product lines operate, and key economic and product line assumptions with respect to projected selling prices, market growth and inflation rates, can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Ch anges in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time in which such impairments are recognized. In addition, the Company continually reviews its diverse portfolio of assets to ensure they are achieving their greatest potential and are aligned with the Company's growth strategy. Strategic decisions involving a particular group of assets may trigger an assessment of the recoverability of the related assets. Such an assessment could result in impairment losses. The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment testing during the fourth quarter, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value is below carrying value, at the reporting unit level which is defined as the operating segment or one level below the operating segment. One level below the operating segment, or component, is a business in which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by segment management. The Company aggregates certain components into reporting units based on economic similarities. The Company has seven reporting units. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the Company has the option to first perform qualitative testing to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value . The qualitative evaluation is an assessment of factors, including reporting unit or asset specific operating results and cost factors, as well as industry, market and macroeconomic conditions, to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or asset is less than the respective carrying amount, including goodwill. If the Company chooses not to complete a qualitative assessment for a given reporting unit or if the initial assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that t he carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, additional quantitative testing is required. 51 If additional quantitative testing is performed, an impairment loss is recognized when the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, limited to the amount of goodwill at the reporting unit. The Company determines fair values for each of the reporting units using a combination of the income approach and market approach. Under the income approach, fair value is determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. The Company uses internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and includes an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on its most recent views of the long-term outlook for each reporting unit. Discounted cash flow valuations are completed using the following key assumptions including Level 3 unobservable inputs : projected revenue, gross margins, selling, administrative, research and development expenses (SARD), depreciation, changes in net working capital, capital expenditures, the weighted average cost of capital, the terminal growth rate, and the tax rate. These key assumptions are determined through evaluation of the Company as a whole, underlying business fundamentals and industry risk. The Company derives its discount rates using a capital asset pricing model and analyzing published rates for industries relevant to its reporting units to estimate the cost of equity financing. The Company uses discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective reporting units and in its internally developed forecasts. Under the market approach, the Company applies the Guideline Public Company Method ("GPCM") utilizing Level 3 unobservable inputs . Selected peer sets are based on close competitors, publicly traded companies and reviews of analysts' reports, public filings, and industry research. In selecting the EBIT/EBITDA multiples and determining the fair value, the Company considers the size, growth, and profitability of each reporting unit versus the relevant guideline public companies. When applicable, third-party purchase offers may be utilized to measure fair value. Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. It is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods. Goodwill Impairment Testing at October 1, 2023 In the fourth quarter of 2023 at October 1, the Company performed its annual goodwill impairment testing by applying the qualitative assessment to six of its reporting units and the quantitative assessment to two of its reporting units. The Company considered various qualitative factors that would have affected the estimated fair value of the reporting units, and the results of the qualitative assessments indicated that it is not more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting units were less than their carrying values. For the reporting units tested under the quantitative assessment, the results indicated that the estimated fair values of the reporting units exceeded their carrying values. The estimated fair value of the Protection reporting unit within Water & Protection exceeded its carrying value by less than 5 percent. Given this level of fair value, the reporting unit is sensitive to changes in the significant assumptions used in the analysis. Goodwill Impairment Testing at December 31, 2023 In connection with the preparation of the full year 2023 financial statements, the continuation of previously disclosed challenging macroeconomic environment in the residential, non-residential, and the repair and remodel construction markets, as well as incremental channel inventory destocking in healthcare and industrial end-markets served as a triggering event requiring the Company to perform an impairment analysis of the goodwill associated with its Protection reporting unit (aggregation of the Safety and Shelter businesses) as of December 31, 2023. The Company used a combination of the income approach and market approach as mentioned above. As a result of the analysis performed, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $804 million recognized in “Goodwill impairment charge” in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Impairment and Disposals of Long-Lived Assets and Impairment of Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets (collectively the “asset group”) to be held and used when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Company tests its indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter, or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the fair value is below carrying value. The carrying value of a long-lived asset group is considered impaired when the anticipated future undiscounted cash flows to be derived from the asset group are less than its carrying value. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are considered impaired when their carrying value exceeds their fair value. In 2023, the Company identified a triggering event within Protection and assessed the indefinite-lived intangible assets and the long-lived assets of certain groups for impairment, noting no impairments were identified. In that event, a loss is recognized based on the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the long-lived asset group. Fair value of the asset group is determined using a combination of a discounted cash flow model and/or market approach. Long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale, if material, are classified as held for sale and reported at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell, and depreciation is ceased. Long-lived assets to be disposed of other than by sale are classified as held and used until they are disposed of. Depreciation is recognized over the remaining useful life of the assets. 52 LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Company has various obligations to its employees and retirees. The Company maintains retirement-related programs in many countries that have a long-term impact on the Company's earnings and cash flows. These plans are typically defined benefit pension plans. The Company has a few medical, dental and life insurance benefits for employees, pensioners and survivors and for employees (other post-employment benefits or "OPEB" plans). Pension coverage for employees of the Company's non-U.S. consolidated subsidiaries is provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans. The Company regularly explores alternative solutions to meet its global pension obligations in the most cost-effective manner possible as demographics, life expectancy and country-specific pension funding rules change. Where permitted by applicable law, the Company reserves the right to change, modify or discontinue its plans that provide pension, medical, dental and life insurance. Benefits under defined benefit pension plans are based primarily on years of service and employees' pay near retirement. Pension benefits are paid primarily from trust funds established to comply with applicable laws and regulations of the sovereign country in which the pension plan operates. Unless required by law, the Company does not make contributions that are in excess of tax-deductible limits. The actuarial assumptions and procedures utilized are reviewed periodically by the plans' actuaries to provide reasonable assurance that there will be adequate funds for the payment of benefits. Thus, there is not necessarily a direct correlation between pension funding and pension expense. In general, however, improvements in plans' funded status tends to moderate subsequent funding needs. The Company contributed $9 million to its funded pension plans for the year ended December 31, 2023. The Company contributed $23 million and $28 million to its funded pension plans for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. All values within this Long-Term Employee Benefits section are inclusive of balances and activity associated with discontinued operations. The Company does maintain one U.S. pension benefit plan. This plan is a separate unfunded plan and these benefits are paid to employees from operating cash flows. The Company's remaining pension plans with no plan assets are paid from operating cash flows. The Company made benefit payments of $57 million, $56 million, and $60 million to its unfunded plans, including OPEB plans, for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In 2024, the Company expects to contribute approximately $57 million to its funded pension plans and its remaining plans with no plan assets. The amount and timing of actual future contributions will depend on applicable funding requirements, discount rates, investment performance, plan design, and various other factors. The Company's income can be affected by pension and defined contribution charges/(benefits) as well as OPEB costs. The following table summarizes the extent to which the Company's income for the years ended December 31, 2023, December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 was affected by pre-tax charges related to long-term employee benefits: The above charges (benefit) for pension and OPEB are determined as of the beginning of each period. See "Pension Plans and Other Post-Employment Benefits" under the Critical Accounting Estimates section of this report for additional information on determining annual expense. For 2024, long term employee benefit expense from continuing operations is expected to decrease by about $15 million compared to 2023. The decrease is mainly due to lower interest costs. 53 ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The Company operates global manufacturing, facilities that are subject to a broad array of environmental laws and regulations. Such rules are subject to change by the implementing governmental agency, and the Company monitors these changes closely. Company policy requires that all operations meet or exceed legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, the Company implements various voluntary programs to reduce its environmental footprint, which include initiatives to reduce air emissions, minimize the generation of hazardous waste, decrease the volume of water used and discharged, increase the efficiency of energy use, and seek to avoid, eliminate or minimize substances of concerns. In October 2019 DuPont announced its sustainability strategy and 2030 Sustainability Goals. The Company’s sustainability strategy and goals prioritize global challenges such as climate change, water stewardship, advancing circular economy and processes, improving health and safety, and more. With these goals, DuPont is committed to using the Company's strength in innovation to advance progress on several of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, increasing resiliency and reducing environmental and social impacts across value chains. Executive responsibility for overall sustainability performance sits with the Chief Technology & Sustainability Officer (the “CTSO”). The CTSO role was created specifically for DuPont to capitalize on the intrinsic link between sustainability and innovation in the Company’s operating model. The CTSO reports directly to the CEO, and routinely engages with the Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) Committee of the Board of Directors on matters of sustainability. DuPont’s sustainability initiatives and strategy are discussed further in its 2023 Sustainability Report, which is available under Sustainability in the "About Us" section of its website; this report is not incorporated by reference and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K. The Company incurs, and expects to incur for the foreseeable future, costs to comply with complex environmental laws and regulations, as well as internal voluntary programs and goals, such as DuPont’s sustainability strategy. Based on existing facts and circumstances, management does not believe that year-over-year changes, if any, in environmental expenses charged to current operations will have a material impact on the Company's financial position, liquidity or results of operations. Annual expenditures in the near term are not expected to vary significantly from the range of such expenditures experienced in the past few years. Longer term, expenditures are subject to considerable uncertainty and may fluctuate significantly. Climate Change The Company believes that climate change is an important global environmental issue that presents risks and opportunities. The Company is continuously evaluating opportunities for existing and new product and service offerings to meet the anticipated demands of a low-carbon economy. As part of DuPont’s sustainability strategy, the Company announced in 2019 an Acting on Climate Goal to reduce the Company’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, measured from a base year of 2019, including sourcing 60 percent of electricity for operations from renewable energy, and delivering carbon neutral operations by 2050. In the second quarter of 2023, DuPont announced that it had strengthened its climate goals including, among other things, increasing its reduction targets for Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions and establishing a Scope 3 GHG emissions reduction goal measured from a 2020 base year. DuPont plans to report on its progress against these goals in its annual sustainability report. In connection with its Acting on Climate goal, DuPont entered a virtual power purchase agreement, (the “VPPA”), with a subsidiary of NextEra Energy Resources, LLC in 2021. In April 2023, DuPont announced that the Appaloosa Run Wind Energy Center, a wind energy project resulting from the VPPA with NextEra, is operational and generating clean, renewable energy. The Appaloosa Run Wind Energy Center, located in Upton County, Texas, generates 135 megawatts of new wind power capacity or approximately 528,000 megawatt hours (MWh) of renewable electricity annually. Public policies may bring higher operating costs as well as greater revenue and margin opportunities. Legislative efforts to control or limit GHG emissions could affect the Company's energy source and supply choices as well as increase the cost of energy and raw materials derived from fossil fuels. Such efforts are also anticipated to provide the business community with greater certainty for the regulatory future, help guide investment decisions, and drive growth in demand for low-carbon and energy-efficient products, technologies, and services. Similarly, demand is expected to grow for products that facilitate adaptation to a changing climate. However, the current unsettled policy environment in the U.S., where many company facilities are located, adds an element of uncertainty to business decisions, particularly those relating to long-term capital investments. In addition, significant differences in regional or national approaches could present challenges in a global marketplace. An effective global climate policy framework will help drive the market changes that are needed to stimulate and efficiently deploy new innovations in science and technology, while maintaining open and competitive global markets. 54 Environmental Operating Costs As a result of its operations, the Company incurs costs for pollution abatement activities including waste collection and disposal, installation and maintenance of air pollution controls and wastewater treatment, emissions testing and monitoring, and obtaining permits. The Company also incurs costs related to environmental related research and development activities including environmental field and treatment studies as well as toxicity and degradation testing to evaluate the environmental impact of products and raw materials. Environmental Remediation The Company has incurred environmental remediation costs of $69 million, $12 million and $14 million, for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Changes in the remediation accrual balance are summarized below: 1. Represents the net change in indemnified remediation obligations based on activity pursuant to the DWDP Separation and Distribution Agreement and Letter Agreement as discussed below and in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This is not inclusive of the environmental accrual related to eligible PFAS costs associated with the MOU of $152 million and $173 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 2. Primarily represents the increase in the Company's indemnification liability for Non-PFAS costs under the DWDP Separation and Distribution Agreement and Letter Agreement. Considerable uncertainty exists with respect to environmental remediation costs, and, under adverse changes in circumstances, the potential liability may range up to $313 million above the amount accrued as of December 31, 2023. However, based on existing facts and circumstances, management does not believe that any loss, in excess of amounts accrued, related to remediation activities at any individual site will have a material impact on the financial position, liquidity or results of operations of the Company. Pursuant to the DWDP Separation and Distribution Agreement and the Letter Agreement discussed in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company indemnifies Dow and Corteva for certain environmental matters. The Company has recorded an indemnification liability of $102 million corresponding to the Company's accrual balance related to these matters at December 31, 2023. The indemnification liability is included in the total remediation accrual liability of $148 million. Environmental Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures for environmental projects, either required by law or necessary to meet the Company’s internal environmental goals, were $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. This amount includes $8 million of expenditures used towards the Company's climate change initiatives. The Company currently estimates expenditures for environmental-related capital projects to be approximately $25 million in 2024, with less than $5 million estimated for climate change initiatives. 55