********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Discussion of our business and operations included in this annual report on Form 10-K should be read together with the risk factors set forth below. They describe various risks and uncertainties we are or may become subject to, many of which are difficult to predict or beyond our control. Although the risks are organized and described separately, many of the risks are interrelated. These risks and uncertainties, together with other factors described elsewhere in this report, have the potential to affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, strategies or prospects in a material and adverse manner. Risks Related to our Business Operations Our homebuilding, rental and land development operations are cyclical and affected by changes in economic, real estate or other conditions that could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our homebuilding, rental and land development operations are cyclical and are significantly affected by changes in general and local economic and real estate conditions, such as: • employment levels; • consumer confidence and spending; • housing demand; • availability of financing for homebuyers; • availability of financing for companies that purchase our rental properties; • interest rates; • inflation; • availability and prices of new homes and existing homes for sale and availability and market values of rental properties; and • demographic trends. Adverse changes in these general and local economic conditions or deterioration in the broader economy may negatively impact our business and financial results and increase the risk for asset impairments and write-offs. Changes in these economic conditions may affect some of our regions or markets more than others. If adverse conditions affect our larger markets, they could have a proportionately greater impact on us than on some other companies. The federal government’s fiscal policies and the Federal Reserve’s monetary policies may negatively impact the financial markets and consumer confidence and could hurt the U.S. economy and the housing and rental markets and in turn, could adversely affect the operating results of our businesses. In response to increased inflation, the Federal Reserve has raised interest rates significantly in recent years, which, notwithstanding the recent reduction, has resulted in higher mortgage interest rates. The increase in mortgage interest rates has reduced the affordability of our homes and has required us to use pricing adjustments and incentives to adapt to current market conditions. Prolonged periods of elevated mortgage interest rates or further increases in mortgage interest rates could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Deployments of U.S. military personnel to foreign regions, terrorist attacks, other acts of violence or threats to national security and any corresponding response by the United States or others, domestic or international instability or social or political unrest may cause an economic slowdown in the markets where we operate, which could adversely affect our business. If we experience any of the foregoing, potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our homes or our rental properties. Additionally, cancellations of home sales contracts in backlog may increase if homebuyers do not honor their contracts due to any of the factors discussed above. Our pricing and product strategies may also be limited by market conditions. We may be unable to change the pricing or mix of our home or rental offerings, reduce the costs of the homes or properties we build, offer more affordable homes or rental properties or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways without adversely affecting our profits and returns. 13 Our financial services business is closely related to our homebuilding business, as it originates mortgage loans principally to purchasers of the homes we build. A decrease in the demand for our homes because of the foregoing matters will also adversely affect the financial results of this segment of our business. An increase in the default rate on the mortgages we originate may adversely affect our ability to sell the mortgages or the pricing we receive upon the sale of mortgages or may increase our recourse obligations for previous originations. We may be responsible for losses associated with mortgage loans originated and sold to third-party purchasers in the event of errors or omissions relating to certain representations and warranties that the loans sold meet certain requirements, including representations as to underwriting standards, the type of collateral, the existence of primary mortgage insurance, and the validity of certain borrower representations in the connection with the loan, and we may be required to repurchase certain of those mortgage loans or provide indemnification. Repurchased mortgage loans and/or the settlement of claims associated with such loans could adversely affect our business and financial results. We establish reserves for estimated losses and future repurchase obligations for mortgage loans we have sold; however, actual future obligations related to these mortgages could differ significantly from our current estimated amounts. Additionally, we may retain mortgage servicing rights on our originations. As servicer for these loans, we may incur losses by having to advance payments to the mortgage-backed securities (MBS) bondholders to the extent there are insufficient collections to satisfy the required principal and interest remittances of the underlying MBS. Adverse developments affecting the capital markets and financial institutions could limit our ability to access capital, increase our cost of capital and impact our liquidity and capital resources. During past economic and housing downturns, the credit markets constricted and reduced some sources of liquidity that were previously available to us. Consequently, we relied principally on our cash on hand to meet our working capital needs and repay outstanding indebtedness during those times. Adverse developments affecting the capital markets and financial institutions, or concerns or rumors about such events, may limit our ability to access the public debt markets or obtain bank financing or may increase our cost of capital. The failure of a bank or other adverse conditions impacting financial institutions where we have cash balances could adversely impact our liquidity and capital resources. Our homebuilding operations utilize a $2.19 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility to $3.0 billion, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments. Our homebuilding revolving credit facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit with a sublimit equal to 100% of the total revolving credit commitments. The maturity date of the facility is October 28, 2027. Our homebuilding revolving credit facility and our homebuilding senior unsecured notes are guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc.’s significant wholly-owned homebuilding subsidiaries. Forestar has a $410 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility to $600 million, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments. The Forestar revolving credit facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit with a sublimit equal to the greater of $100 million and 50% of the total revolving credit commitments. The maturity date of the facility is October 28, 2026. The Forestar revolving credit facility is guaranteed by Forestar’s wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not immaterial subsidiaries and have not been designated as unrestricted subsidiaries. The Forestar revolving credit facility is not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the subsidiaries that guarantee the debt of our homebuilding, rental or financial services operations. Our rental subsidiary, DRH Rental, has a $1.05 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility to $2.0 billion, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments. Availability under the rental revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base calculation based on the book value of DRH Rental’s real estate assets and unrestricted cash. The rental revolving credit facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit with a sublimit equal to the greater of $100 million and 50% of the total revolving credit commitments. The maturity date of the facility is October 10, 2027. The rental revolving credit facility is guaranteed by DRH Rental’s wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not immaterial subsidiaries and have not been designated as unrestricted subsidiaries. The rental revolving credit facility is not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the subsidiaries that guarantee the debt of our homebuilding, Forestar or financial services operations. 14 Our mortgage subsidiary, DHI Mortgage, utilizes a $1.6 billion committed mortgage repurchase facility to finance the majority of the loans it originates. Adverse changes in market conditions could make the renewal of this facility more difficult or could result in an increase in the cost of this facility or a decrease in the committed amounts. Such changes affecting our mortgage repurchase facility may also make it more difficult or costly to sell the mortgages that we originate. The maturity date of the committed mortgage repurchase facility is May 9, 2025. DHI Mortgage also utilizes an uncommitted mortgage repurchase facility, which had a capacity of $500 million at September 30, 2024. The mortgage repurchase facilities are not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the subsidiaries that guarantee the debt of our homebuilding, rental or Forestar operations. We regularly assess our projected capital requirements to fund growth in our business, repay debt obligations, pay dividends, repurchase our common stock under our $4.0 billion stock repurchase authorization and support other general corporate and operational needs, and we regularly evaluate our opportunities to raise additional capital. D.R. Horton, Inc. has an automatically effective universal shelf registration statement filed with the SEC in July 2024, registering debt and equity securities that may be issued from time to time in amounts to be determined. Forestar also has an effective shelf registration statement filed with the SEC in September 2024, registering $750 million of equity securities. As market conditions permit, we may issue new debt or equity securities through the capital markets or obtain additional bank financing to fund our projected capital requirements or provide additional liquidity. We believe that our existing cash resources, together with the homebuilding, rental and Forestar revolving credit facilities, mortgage repurchase facilities and ability to access the capital markets or obtain additional financing will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our near-term working capital needs and debt obligations. Adverse changes in economic, homebuilding or capital market conditions could negatively affect our business, liquidity and financial results, restrict our ability to obtain additional capital or increase our costs of capital. Reductions in the availability of mortgage financing provided by government agencies, changes in government financing programs, a decrease in our ability to sell mortgage loans on attractive terms or an increase in mortgage interest rates could decrease our buyers’ ability to obtain financing and adversely affect our business and financial results. The mortgage loans originated by our financial services operations are primarily eligible for sale to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae and are typically sold to third-party purchasers. The secondary market for mortgage loans continues to primarily desire securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, and we believe the liquidity these agencies provide to the mortgage industry is important to the housing market. Any significant change regarding the long-term structure and viability of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could result in adjustments to the size of their loan portfolios and to guidelines for their loan products. Additionally, a reduction in the availability of financing provided by these institutions could adversely affect interest rates, mortgage availability and sales of new homes and mortgage loans. During fiscal 2024, approximately 73% of our mortgage loans were sold directly to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or into securities backed by Ginnie Mae, and 26% were sold to one other major financial entity. On an ongoing basis, we seek to establish loan purchase arrangements with additional financial entities. If we are unable to sell mortgage loans to purchasers on attractive terms, our ability to originate and sell mortgage loans at competitive prices could be limited, which would negatively affect our profitability. The FHA insures mortgage loans that generally have lower credit requirements and is an important source for financing the sale of our homes. Changes, restrictions or significant premium increases in FHA programs in the future may negatively affect the availability or affordability of FHA financing, which could adversely affect our ability to sell homes. Some of our customers may qualify for 100% financing through programs offered by the VA and the USDA and certain other housing finance agencies. These programs are subject to changes in regulations, lending standards and government funding levels. There can be no assurances that these programs or other programs will continue to be available in our homebuilding markets or that they will be as attractive to our customers as the programs currently offered, which could negatively affect our sales. Mortgage interest rates have increased significantly in recent years, and market conditions and government actions could cause mortgage rates to rise even further in the future. When interest rates increase, the cost of owning a home increases, which reduces the number of potential homebuyers who can obtain mortgage financing and can result in a decline in the demand for our homes. 15 The risks associated with our land, lot and rental inventory could adversely affect our business and financial results. Inventory risks are substantial for our homebuilding, rental and Forestar businesses. There are risks inherent in controlling, owning and developing land. If housing demand declines, we may not be able to sell homes or rental properties profitably in some of our communities, and we may not be able to fully recover the costs of some of the land and lots we own. Also, the values of our owned undeveloped land, lots and inventories may fluctuate significantly due to changes in market conditions. As a result, our deposits for lots controlled through purchase contracts may be put at risk, we may have to sell homes, rental properties or land for a lower profit margin or record inventory impairment charges on our land and lots. A significant deterioration in economic or homebuilding industry conditions may result in substantial inventory impairment charges. We cannot make any assurances that our growth strategies, acquisitions, investments or other strategic initiatives will be successful or will not expose us to additional risks or other negative consequences. In recent years, we have primarily grown our business by increasing our investments in land, lot and home inventories in our existing homebuilding markets. We have also expanded through investments in new product offerings, new geographic markets and the growth of our rental property operations. Investments in land, lots, home inventories and rental properties can expose us to risks of economic loss and asset impairments if housing conditions weaken or if we are unsuccessful in implementing our growth strategies. We have acquired the operations of several companies in recent years, and we may make strategic acquisitions of or investments in other companies, operations or assets in the future. Such acquisitions and investments may have risks similar to those related to land, lots and home inventories, but they may also expose us to additional risks or other negative consequences. These transactions, or our other strategic initiatives, may not advance our business strategy, provide a satisfactory return on our investment or provide other benefits we anticipate. Also, the integration of these transactions may not be successful and may require significant time and resources, which may divert management’s attention from other operations. Acquisitions and investments could also raise new compliance-related obligations or expose us to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process that may lead to litigation. If these transactions under-perform our expectations or are unsuccessful, we may incur significant expenses or write-offs of inventory, other assets or intangible assets such as goodwill. Acquisitions and investments can result in dilution to existing stockholders if we issue our common stock as consideration and can increase our debt levels or reduce our liquidity if we purchase them with cash. The magnitude, timing and nature of any future acquisitions or investments will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to identify suitable additional markets or acquisition candidates, the negotiation of acceptable terms, our financial position and general economic and business conditions. We also may seek to divest an investment or a business and may have difficulty selling such investment or business on acceptable terms in a timely manner. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by significant inflation, higher interest rates or deflation. During the past three years, the economy has experienced significant inflationary pressures. Inflation can adversely affect us by increasing costs of land, materials, labor and our cost of capital. In an effort to lower the rate of inflation, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates significantly, which has resulted in higher mortgage interest rates. The increase in mortgage interest rates has reduced the affordability of our homes and has required us to use pricing adjustments and incentives to adapt to current market conditions, which result in lower gross margins. If inflation and mortgage interest rates remain high or increase, housing affordability may be further impacted, which could reduce our profit margins and have an adverse impact on our business and financial results. Alternatively, a significant period of deflation could cause a decrease in overall spending and borrowing levels. This could lead to deterioration in economic conditions, including an increase in the rate of unemployment. Deflation could also cause the value of our inventories to decline or reduce the value of existing homes below the related mortgage loan balance, which could potentially increase the supply of existing homes. These or other factors related to deflation could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. 16 Supply shortages and other risks related to acquiring land, building materials and skilled labor and obtaining regulatory approvals could increase our costs and delay deliveries. The homebuilding and lot development industries have from time to time experienced significant difficulties that can affect the cost or timing of construction, including: • difficulty in acquiring land suitable for residential building at affordable prices in locations where our potential customers want to live; • delays in receiving the necessary approvals from municipalities or other government agencies; • shortages of qualified subcontractors; • reliance on local subcontractors, manufacturers, distributors and land developers who may be inadequately capitalized; • shortages of materials; and • significant increases in the cost of materials, particularly increases in the price of lumber, drywall and cement, which are significant components of home construction costs. During the last few years, we experienced multiple disruptions in our supply chain, which resulted in shortages of certain building materials and tightness in the labor market. This caused our construction cycle to lengthen and costs of building materials to increase. We began to see improvements in our construction cycle time in fiscal 2023 and our cycle times have recently normalized; however, if shortages and cost increases in building materials and tightness in the labor market increase, our construction cycle time and profit margins could be adversely impacted. In addition, tariffs, duties and/or trade restrictions imposed or increased on imported materials and goods that are used in connection with the construction and delivery of our homes, including steel, aluminum and lumber, may raise our costs for these items or for the products made with them. These factors may cause construction delays or cause us to incur more costs building our homes. Public health issues such as a major epidemic or pandemic could adversely affect our business and financial results. The U.S. and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, outbreaks of contagious diseases that affect public health and public perception of health risk. In the event of a widespread, prolonged, actual or perceived outbreak of any contagious disease, such as COVID-19, our operations could be negatively impacted. Such events have had, and could in the future have, an effect on our operations, including a reduction in customer traffic, a disruption in our supply chain, tightness in the labor market or other factors, all of which could reduce demand for our homes. These or other repercussions of a public health crisis that affect the global economy could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected by weather conditions and natural disasters. Physical risks, including weather conditions and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, volcanic activity, droughts, floods, hailstorms, heavy or prolonged precipitation, wildfires and others, can harm our business. Additionally, the physical impacts of climate change may cause these occurrences to increase in frequency, severity and duration. Any such events can temporarily delay our development work, home construction and home closings, unfavorably affect the cost or availability of materials or labor, damage homes under construction, lead to changing consumer preferences and/or negatively impact demand for new homes in affected areas. We have experienced temporary delays in production and short-term impacts on our sales and closings activity from weather events in recent years. There have been no material lasting impacts on our business from these events or material permanent operational challenges resulting from these events, but they could adversely affect our business in the future. The climates and geology of many of the states in which we operate, including California, Florida, Texas and other coastal areas where we have some of our larger operations and which have experienced recent natural disasters, present increased risks of adverse weather or natural disasters. 17 Homebuilding is subject to home warranty and construction defect claims in the ordinary course of business that can be significant. We are subject to home warranty and construction defect claims arising in the ordinary course of our homebuilding business. We rely on subcontractors to perform the actual construction of our homes, and in many cases, to select and obtain construction materials. Despite our detailed specifications and monitoring of the construction process, our subcontractors occasionally do not meet adequate quality standards in the construction of our homes. When we find these issues, we repair them in accordance with our warranty obligations. We spend significant resources to repair items in homes we have sold to fulfill the warranties we issued to our homebuyers. Additionally, we are subject to construction defect claims which can be costly to defend and resolve in the legal system. Warranty and construction defect matters can also result in negative publicity which can damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell homes. Based on the large number of homes we have sold over the years, our potential liabilities related to warranty and construction defect claims are significant. Consequently, we have generally maintained product liability insurance each year, and we seek to obtain indemnities and certificates of insurance from subcontractors covering claims related to their workmanship and materials. We establish warranty and other reserves for the homes we sell based on historical experience in our markets and our judgment of the qualitative risks associated with the types of homes built. Because of the uncertainties inherent to these matters, we cannot provide assurance that our insurance coverage, our subcontractor arrangements and our reserves will be adequate to address all of our future warranty and construction defect claims. Contractual indemnities can be difficult to enforce, we may be responsible for applicable self-insured retentions and some types of claims may not be covered by insurance or may exceed applicable coverage limits. Additionally, the coverage offered by and the availability of product liability insurance for construction defects is limited and costly. We have responded to increases in insurance costs and coverage limitations by self-insuring our risk in recent years and by increasing our self-insured retentions and claim reserves. There can be no assurance that coverage will not be further restricted or become more costly. If costs to resolve our future warranty and construction defect claims exceed our estimates, our financial results and liquidity could be adversely affected. A health and safety incident relating to our operations could be costly in terms of potential liability and reputational damage. Building and land development sites are inherently dangerous, and operating in this industry poses certain inherent health and safety risks. Due to health and safety regulatory requirements and the number of homes we construct, health and safety performance is critical to the success of our business. Any failure in health and safety performance may result in penalties for non-compliance with relevant regulatory requirements, and a failure that results in a major or significant health and safety incident is likely to be costly and could expose us to liability that could be costly. Such an incident could generate significant negative publicity and have a corresponding impact on our reputation, our relationships with relevant regulatory agencies or governmental authorities, and our ability to attract customers and employees, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and liquidity. We are required to obtain performance bonds, the unavailability of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We often are required to provide surety bonds to secure our performance or obligations under construction contracts, development agreements and other arrangements. At September 30, 2024, we had $3.5 billion of outstanding surety bonds. Our ability to obtain surety bonds primarily depends upon our credit rating, financial condition, past performance and other factors, including the capacity of the surety market and the underwriting practices of surety bond issuers. The ability to obtain surety bonds also can be impacted by the willingness of insurance companies to issue performance bonds for construction and development activities. If we are unable to obtain surety bonds when required, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 18 Increases in the costs of owning a home could prevent potential customers from buying our homes and adversely affect our business and financial results. Significant expenses of owning a home, including mortgage loan interest and state and local income and property taxes, have historically been deductible expenses for an individual’s federal income taxes, subject to various limitations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 established new limits on these federal tax deductions. Further changes in income tax laws by the federal or state government to eliminate or substantially reduce income tax benefits associated with homeownership could adversely affect demand for and sales prices of new homes. In addition, increases in property tax rates by local governmental authorities, as experienced in some areas in response to reduced federal and state funding, could adversely affect the amount of financing our potential customers could obtain or their desire to purchase new homes. Further, existing and prospective regulatory and societal initiatives intended to reduce potential climate change impacts may increase the upfront costs of purchasing a home, costs to maintain the home and its systems, energy and utility costs and the cost to obtain homeowner and various hazard and flood insurance, or limit homeowners’ ability to obtain these insurance policies altogether. Although these items have had no material effect on our business, they could adversely affect our business in the future. Information technology failures, data security breaches, and the failure to satisfy privacy and data protection laws and regulations could harm our business. We use information technology and other computer resources to carry out important operational and marketing activities and to maintain our business records. These information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, third-party software and data storage providers and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure that have experienced security breaches, cyber incidents, ransomware attacks, significant systems failures and service outages in the past. Additionally, phishing attacks, whereby perpetrators attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, vendors or other users of a company’s systems to disclose sensitive information to gain access to its data, have increased significantly in recent years. With the use of artificial intelligence, these phishing attacks may contain highly convincing language making them difficult to distinguish from legitimate messages. The use of remote work environments and virtual platforms may increase our risk of cyber incidents or data security breaches. Further, geopolitical tensions or conflicts may create a heightened risk of cyber incidents or other data security breaches. Our normal business activities involve collecting and storing information specific to our homebuyers, renters, employees, vendors and suppliers and maintaining operational and financial information related to our business, both in an office setting and remote locations as needed. A material breach in the security of our information technology systems or other data security controls, or those of the third parties we work with, could include the theft or release of this information. The unintended or unauthorized disclosure of personal identifying and confidential information as a result of a security breach by any means could lead to litigation or other proceedings against us by the affected individuals or business partners, or by regulators. The outcome of such proceedings, which could include penalties or fines, could have a significant negative impact on our business. We may also be required to incur significant costs to protect against damages caused by information technology failures, security breaches, and the failure to satisfy privacy and data protection laws and regulations in the future as legal requirements continue to increase. The European Union and other international regulators, as well as state governments, have enacted or enhanced data privacy regulations, such as the California Privacy Rights Act, and other governments are considering establishing similar or stronger protections. These regulations impose certain obligations for handling specified personal information in our systems, including notifying individuals regarding information we have collected from them. We have incurred costs in an effort to comply with these requirements, but our costs may increase significantly if new requirements are enacted and based on how individuals exercise their rights. Any loss of sensitive information and failure to comply with these requirements or other applicable laws and regulations in this area could result in substantial penalties, reputational damage or litigation. 19 We routinely utilize information technology security experts to assist us in our evaluations of the effectiveness of the security of our information technology systems, and we regularly enhance our security measures, which include multiple redundant safeguards, to protect our systems and data. We use various encryption, tokenization and authentication technologies to mitigate cybersecurity risks and have increased our monitoring capabilities to enhance early detection and rapid response to potential cyber threats. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade systems change frequently and increasingly leverage sophisticated technologies such as artificial intelligence, they often are not recognized until launched against a target. As such, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, to implement adequate preventative measures or to identify and investigate cybersecurity incidents. We may also incur costs to adapt our cybersecurity program to the evolving threat landscape and to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other identified risks. Although past cybersecurity incidents have not had a material effect on our business or operations to date, in the future, a data security breach, a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or a breach of any of our data security controls could disrupt our business operations, damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Additionally, if a cybersecurity incident is determined to be material, we are subject to additional reporting requirements. We cannot provide assurances that a security breach, cyber incident, data theft or other significant systems or security failures will not occur in the future, and such occurrences could have a material and adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. Governmental regulations and environmental matters could increase the cost and limit the availability of our land development and housing projects and adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to extensive and complex regulations that affect land development and home construction, including zoning, density restrictions, building design and building standards. These regulations often provide broad discretion to the administering governmental authorities as to the conditions we must meet prior to development or construction being approved, if approved at all. We are subject to determinations by these authorities as to the adequacy of water or sewage facilities, roads or other local services. New housing developments may also be subject to various assessments for schools, parks, streets and other public improvements. In addition, government authorities in many markets have implemented no growth or growth control initiatives. Any of these may limit, delay or increase the costs of development or home construction. We are also subject to a significant number and variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning protection of health, safety, labor standards and the environment. The impact of environmental laws varies depending upon the prior uses of the building site or adjoining properties and may be greater in areas with less supply where undeveloped land or desirable alternatives are less available. These matters may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance, remediation, mitigation and other costs, and can prohibit or severely restrict development and homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas. Government agencies also routinely initiate audits, reviews or investigations of our business practices to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, which can cause us to incur costs or create other disruptions in our business that can be significant. In recent years, advocacy groups, government agencies and the general public have expressed growing concerns regarding the effects of climate change on the environment. Transition risks, such as government restrictions, standards or regulations intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and potential climate change impacts, are emerging and may increase in the future in the form of restrictions or additional requirements on land development and home construction in certain areas. Such restrictions and requirements could increase our operating and compliance costs or require additional technology and capital investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations. This is a particular concern in the western United States, where some of the most extensive and stringent environmental laws and residential building construction standards in the country have been enacted, and where we have business operations. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with existing climate-related government restrictions, standards and regulations applicable to our business, and such compliance has not had a material impact on our business. However, given the rapidly changing nature of environmental laws and matters that may arise that are not currently known, we cannot predict our future exposure concerning such matters, and our future costs to achieve compliance or remedy potential violations could be significant. 20 Additionally, actual or perceived ESG and other sustainability matters and our response to these matters could harm our business. Increasing governmental and societal attention to ESG matters, including expanding mandatory and voluntary reporting, diligence and disclosure on topics such as climate change, human capital, labor, cybersecurity and risk oversight, could expand the nature, scope, and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess and report. In March 2024, the SEC adopted new rules regarding climate-related disclosures. Though these rules are currently being challenged in legal proceedings and their effectiveness has been stayed by the SEC, these rules, if they become effective, would require public companies to make a wide range of climate-related disclosures. Similarly, the State of California has recently enacted its own legislation requiring extensive climate-related disclosures for companies deemed to be doing business in California, and other states are considering similar laws. Any of the above factors may alter the environment in which we do business and may increase the ongoing costs of compliance and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to adequately address such ESG matters or fail to comply with all laws, regulations, policies and related interpretations, it could negatively impact our reputation and our business results. The subcontractors we rely on to perform the actual construction of our homes are also subject to a significant number of local, state and federal laws and regulations, including laws involving matters that are not within our control. If the subcontractors who construct our homes fail to comply with all applicable laws, we can suffer reputational damage, and may be exposed to possible liability. We are also subject to an extensive number of laws and regulations because our common stock and debt securities and the common stock and debt securities of our Forestar subsidiary are publicly traded in the capital markets. These regulations govern our communications with our shareholders and the capital markets, our financial statement disclosures and our legal processes, and they also impact the work required to be performed by our independent registered public accounting firm and our legal counsel. Changes in these laws and regulations, including the subsequent implementation of rules by the administering government authorities, may require us to incur additional compliance costs, and such costs may be significant. Governmental regulation of our financial services operations could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our financial services operations are subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations, which are administered by numerous agencies, including but not limited to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Federal Housing Finance Agency, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, FHA, VA, USDA, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. These laws and regulations include many compliance requirements, including but not limited to licensing, consumer disclosures, fair lending and real estate settlement procedures. As a result, our operations are subject to regular, extensive examinations by the applicable agencies. Additional future regulations or changing rule interpretations and examinations by regulatory agencies may result in more stringent compliance standards and could adversely affect the results of our operations. We operate in competitive industries, and competitive conditions could adversely affect our business and financial results. We operate in the residential housing industry, which is highly competitive. We compete not only for homebuyers and renters, but also for desirable properties, raw materials, skilled labor and financing. We compete with local, regional and national homebuilding and rental companies and also with existing home sales and rental properties. These competitive conditions can negatively affect our sales volumes, selling prices, leased occupancy levels, rental rates and incentive levels, reduce our profit margins, and cause the value of our inventory or other assets to be impaired. Competition can also affect our ability to acquire suitable land, raw materials and skilled labor at acceptable prices or terms, or cause delays in land development or in construction. The competitors to our financial services businesses include other mortgage lenders and title companies, including national, regional and local mortgage banks and other financial institutions. Some of these competitors are subject to fewer governmental regulations and have greater access to capital than we do, may operate with different lending criteria and/or may offer a broader or more attractive array of financing and other products and services to potential customers. Our businesses compete with other companies across all industries to attract and retain highly skilled and experienced employees, managers and executives. If we are unable to attract and retain key employees, managers or executives, our business could be adversely affected. 21 Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have significant amounts of debt and may incur additional debt, which could affect our financial health and our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations or potential acquisitions. As of September 30, 2024, our consolidated debt was $5.9 billion, which consisted of $2.9 billion related to our homebuilding segment, $1.5 billion related to our financial services segment, $751 million related to our rental segment and $706 million related to our Forestar segment. The indenture governing our homebuilding senior notes does not restrict the incurrence of future unsecured debt by us or our homebuilding subsidiaries or the incurrence of secured or unsecured debt by our non-guarantor subsidiaries, and the agreement governing our homebuilding revolving credit facility allows us to incur a substantial amount of future unsecured debt. Also, the indenture governing our homebuilding senior notes and the agreement governing our homebuilding revolving credit facility impose restrictions on our ability and on that of the guarantors under our homebuilding senior notes and our homebuilding revolving credit facility to incur debt secured by certain assets, but still permit us and our homebuilding subsidiaries to incur significant amounts of additional secured debt. The rental revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on the ability of DRH Rental and its restricted subsidiaries to incur secured and unsecured debt, but still permits DRH Rental and its restricted subsidiaries to incur a substantial amount of future secured and unsecured debt, and does not restrict the incurrence of future secured and unsecured debt by DRH Rental’s unrestricted subsidiaries. The Forestar revolving credit facility and the indentures governing Forestar’s senior notes impose restrictions on the ability of Forestar and its restricted subsidiaries to incur secured and unsecured debt, but still permit Forestar and its restricted subsidiaries to incur a substantial amount of future secured and unsecured debt, and do not restrict the incurrence of future secured and unsecured debt by Forestar’s unrestricted subsidiaries. The mortgage repurchase facilities impose restrictions on the ability of DHI Mortgage and its restricted subsidiaries to incur secured and unsecured debt, but still permit DHI Mortgage and its restricted subsidiaries to incur a substantial amount of future secured and unsecured debt, and do not restrict the incurrence of future secured and unsecured debt by DHI Mortgage’s unrestricted subsidiaries. The amount and the maturities of our debt and the debt of our subsidiaries could have important consequences. For example, possible consequences for our homebuilding, rental, Forestar and financial services operations each with respect to their individual debt obligations, could: • require the dedication of a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to payment of debt and reduce the ability to use cash flow for other operating or investing purposes; • limit the flexibility to adjust to changes in business or economic conditions; and • limit the ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other requirements. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we or our subsidiaries may not have sufficient cash flow from our respective businesses to pay our substantial debt. Our ability and that of our subsidiaries to meet our respective debt service obligations will depend, in part, upon our and our subsidiaries’ future financial performance. Future results are subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report. Our revenues and earnings vary with the level of general economic activity in the markets we serve. Our businesses are also affected by financial and political events and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The factors that affect our ability to generate cash can also affect our ability to raise additional funds for these purposes through the sale of debt or equity, the refinancing of debt or the sale of assets. Changes in prevailing interest rates may affect the cost of our debt service obligations, because borrowings under the homebuilding, rental and Forestar revolving credit facilities and mortgage repurchase facilities bear interest at floating rates. The instruments governing our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness impose certain restrictions on our and our subsidiaries’ business, and the ability of us and our subsidiaries to comply with related covenants, restrictions or limitations could adversely affect our and our subsidiaries’ financial condition or operating flexibility. The restrictions imposed by our and certain of our subsidiaries’ indebtedness could limit our or our subsidiaries’ ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our or our subsidiaries’ ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. 22 The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions on our and our guarantor subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, engage in sale and leaseback transactions with respect to certain assets, incur secured debt, create liens, pay dividends and make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase equity securities, sell certain assets and engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The applicable instruments governing each of DRH Rental’s indebtedness and Forestar’s indebtedness contain restrictions on the ability of DRH Rental and Forestar, as applicable, and certain of their respective subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, create liens, pay dividends and make other distributions on or redeem or repurchase equity securities, sell certain assets, enter into affiliate transactions and engage in mergers, consolidations or sales of all or substantially all of DRH Rental’s or Forestar’s assets, as applicable. In addition, the agreements governing certain of our and our subsidiaries’ debt instruments contain the following financial covenants: Homebuilding revolving credit facility. Our homebuilding revolving credit facility contains financial covenants requiring the maintenance of a maximum allowable leverage ratio and a borrowing base restriction if our leverage ratio exceeds a certain level. A failure to comply with these financial covenants could allow the lending banks to terminate the availability of funds under the revolving credit facility or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity. Rental and Forestar revolving credit facilities. The rental and Forestar revolving credit facilities each contain financial covenants requiring the maintenance by DRH Rental or Forestar, as applicable, of a minimum level of tangible net worth, a minimum level of liquidity, a maximum allowable leverage ratio and a borrowing base restriction based on the book value of DRH Rental’s or Forestar’s real estate assets and unrestricted cash. A failure to comply with these financial covenants could allow the lending banks to terminate the availability of funds under the applicable revolving credit facility or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity. Mortgage repurchase facilities and other restrictions. The mortgage repurchase facilities for our mortgage subsidiary require the maintenance of a minimum level of tangible net worth, a maximum allowable indebtedness to tangible net worth ratio and a minimum level of liquidity by our mortgage subsidiary. A failure to comply with these requirements could allow the lending banks to terminate the availability of funds to our mortgage subsidiary or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity. Any difficulty experienced in complying with these covenants could make the renewal of the facilities more difficult or costly. In addition, although our financial services business is conducted through subsidiaries that are not restricted by the indentures governing our and Forestar’s senior unsecured notes or the agreements governing the homebuilding, rental and Forestar revolving credit facilities, the ability of our financial services subsidiaries to distribute funds to our homebuilding operations would be restricted in the event such distribution would cause an event of default under the mortgage repurchase facilities or if an event of default had occurred under these facilities. Moreover, our right to receive assets from our financial services subsidiaries upon their liquidation or recapitalization is subject to the prior claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. Any claims we may have to funds from our financial services subsidiaries would be subordinate to subsidiary indebtedness to the extent of any security for such indebtedness and to any indebtedness otherwise recognized as senior to our claims. Our access to capital and our ability to obtain additional financing could be affected by any downgrade of our debt ratings. Our homebuilding senior unsecured debt is currently rated investment grade by all three major rating agencies; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these ratings. Any lowering of our debt ratings could make accessing the public capital markets or obtaining additional credit from banks more difficult and/or more expensive. Any lowering of Forestar’s debt ratings could also make Forestar’s ability to access the public capital markets or obtain additional credit from banks more difficult and/or more expensive. 23 The instruments governing our indebtedness contain change of control provisions which could affect the timing of repayment. Change of control purchase options under our homebuilding senior notes and change of control default under our homebuilding revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of both a change of control and a ratings downgrade event, each as defined in the indenture governing our homebuilding senior notes, we will be required to offer to repurchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. Moreover, a change of control (as defined in our homebuilding revolving credit facility) would constitute an event of default under our homebuilding revolving credit facility, which could result in the acceleration of the repayment of any borrowings outstanding under the facility, a requirement to cash collateralize all letters of credit outstanding thereunder and the termination of the commitments thereunder. If repayment of more than $50 million outstanding under our homebuilding revolving credit facility were accelerated and such acceleration were not rescinded or such indebtedness were not satisfied, in either case within 30 days, an event of default would result under the indenture governing our homebuilding senior notes, entitling the trustee for the notes or holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the relevant series of notes then outstanding to declare all such notes to be due and payable immediately. If purchase offers were required under the indenture for our homebuilding senior notes, repayment of the borrowings under our homebuilding revolving credit facility were required, or if the senior notes were accelerated, we can give no assurance that we would have sufficient funds to pay the required amounts. Change of control purchase option under Forestar’s notes and change of control default under the Forestar revolving credit facility. Upon the occurrence of a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures governing Forestar’s notes), Forestar will be required to offer to repurchase Forestar’s notes at 101% of their principal amount, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, if any. A change of control (as defined in the Forestar revolving credit facility) with respect to Forestar would constitute an event of default under the Forestar revolving credit facility, which could result in the acceleration of the repayment of any borrowings outstanding under the Forestar revolving credit facility, a requirement to cash collateralize all letters of credit outstanding thereunder and the termination of the commitments thereunder. If the maturity of the Forestar revolving credit facility and/or other indebtedness of Forestar and its restricted subsidiaries together having an aggregate principal amount outstanding of $40 million or more is accelerated, an event of default would result under the indentures governing the Forestar notes, entitling the trustee for the Forestar notes or holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Forestar notes to declare all such Forestar notes to be due and payable immediately. If purchase offers were required under the indentures for Forestar’s notes, repayment of the borrowings under Forestar’s revolving credit facility were required, or if Forestar’s notes were accelerated, we can give no assurance that Forestar would have sufficient funds to pay the required amounts. Change of control default under the rental revolving credit facility . A change of control (as defined in the rental revolving credit facility agreement) with respect to DRH Rental would constitute an event of default under the rental revolving credit facility, which could result in the acceleration of the repayment of any borrowings outstanding under the rental revolving credit facility, a requirement to cash collateralize all letters of credit outstanding thereunder and the termination of the commitments thereunder. If repayment of the borrowings under the rental revolving credit facility were required, we can give no assurance that DRH Rental would have sufficient funds to pay the required amounts. Change of control default under mortgage repurchase facilities . A change of control (as defined in the mortgage repurchase facility agreements) with respect to DHI Mortgage would constitute an event of default under the mortgage repurchase facilities, which could result in the acceleration of the repurchase of any loans outstanding under the facilities and an increase in the repurchase price of such loans. If repayments of the loans under DHI Mortgage’s mortgage repurchase facilities were required, we can give no assurance that DHI Mortgage would have sufficient funds to pay the required amounts. 24 General Risk Factors Damage to our corporate reputation or brands from negative publicity could adversely affect our business, financial results and/or stock price. Adverse publicity related to our company, industry, personnel, operations or business performance may cause damage to our corporate reputation or brands and may generate negative sentiment, potentially affecting the performance of our business or our stock price, regardless of its accuracy or inaccuracy. Our reputation could be adversely affected by actual or perceived failures or concerns related to ethics, compliance, product quality and safety, environmental matters, privacy, diversity and inclusion, human rights, compensation and benefits and corporate governance, among other things. Negative publicity can be disseminated rapidly through digital platforms, including social media, websites, blogs and newsletters. Customers and other interested parties value readily available information and often act on such information without further investigation and without regard to its accuracy. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction, and our success in preserving our brand image depends on our ability to recognize, respond to and effectively manage negative publicity in a rapidly changing environment. Adverse publicity or unfavorable commentary from any source could damage our reputation, reduce the demand for our homes or negatively impact the morale and performance of our employees, which could adversely affect our business. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of key personnel. We rely on our key personnel to effectively operate and manage our businesses. Specifically, our success depends heavily on the performance of our homebuilding division and region presidents and their management teams, our rental housing management team, our financial services management team, our corporate office management teams, our Forestar management team and our executive officers. These key personnel have significant experience and skills as well as leadership and management abilities that are vital to our success. Our ability to attract and retain our key personnel may be impacted by matters involving reputation, culture, diversity and inclusion, compensation and benefits and our management of executive succession. We seek to retain our key personnel, to have succession and transition plans in place to address the potential loss of key personnel, and to manage personnel transitions due to retirements, promotions, transfers and other circumstances. However, if our retention, succession and transition implementation efforts are unsuccessful, the loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others. We may be subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations and/or divert the attention of our Board and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies. Activist stockholders may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy, including with respect to our ESG efforts, which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, potential homebuyers and business partners and may affect our relationships with current homebuyers, subcontractors, investors and other third parties. In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to promote an understanding of our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and certain other factors that may affect future results. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements that appear elsewhere in this Form 10-K. This section discusses the results of operations for fiscal 2024 compared to 2023. For similar operating and financial data and discussion of our fiscal 2023 results compared to our fiscal 2022 results, refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Part II of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023, which was filed with the SEC on November 17, 2023. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to any differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” and under Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” Results of Operations — Overview Fiscal 2024 Operating Results In fiscal 2024, our number of homes closed and home sales revenues increased 8% and 7%, respectively, compared to the prior year, and our consolidated revenues increased 4% to $36.8 billion compared to $35.5 billion in the prior year. Our pre-tax income was $6.3 billion in both fiscal 2024 and 2023, and our pre-tax operating margin was 17.1% compared to 17.8%. Net income was $4.8 billion in both years, and our diluted earnings per share was $14.34 compared to $13.82. Consolidated net cash provided by operating activities was $2.2 billion in fiscal 2024 and $4.3 billion in fiscal 2023, and cash provided by our homebuilding operations was $2.2 billion in fiscal 2024 compared to $3.1 billion in fiscal 2023. In fiscal 2024, our return on equity (ROE) was 19.9% compared to 22.7% in fiscal 2023, our homebuilding pre-tax return on inventory (ROI) was 27.8% compared to 29.7%, and our return on assets (ROA) was 13.9% compared to 15.1%. ROE is calculated as net income attributable to D.R. Horton for the year divided by average stockholders’ equity, where average stockholders’ equity is the sum of ending stockholders’ equity balances for the trailing five quarters divided by five. Homebuilding ROI is calculated as homebuilding pre-tax income for the year divided by average inventory, where average inventory is the sum of ending homebuilding inventory balances for the trailing five quarters divided by five. ROA is calculated as net income attributable to D.R. Horton for the year divided by average consolidated assets, where average consolidated assets is the sum of total asset balances for the trailing five quarters divided by five. Despite elevated mortgage interest rates and inflationary pressures during fiscal 2024, demand for new homes remained solid, and our net sales orders increased 10% compared to fiscal 2023. The disruptions in the supply chain for certain building materials and tightness in the labor market we experienced in recent years have largely subsided, and our average construction cycle time has returned to historical norms. The supply of both new and existing homes at affordable price points is still limited, and demographics supporting housing demand remain favorable; however, we are continuing to use incentives and pricing adjustments to adapt to current market conditions. We believe we are well-positioned to meet changing market conditions with our affordable product offerings and lot supply and will manage our home pricing, sales incentives and number of homes in inventory based on the level of homebuyer demand. We expect our incentive levels to remain elevated, assuming similar market conditions and no significant changes in mortgage interest rates. We remain focused on our relationships with land developers across the country in order to maximize our returns and capital efficiency . Within our homebuilding land and lot portfolio, our lots controlled through purchase contracts represent 76% of the lots owned and controlled at September 30, 2024 compared to 75% at September 30, 2023. We are prioritizing the purchase of finished lots from Forestar and other land developers when possible. During fiscal 2024, 63% of the homes we closed were on lots developed by either Forestar or a third party. We believe our strong balance sheet and liquidity provide us with the flexibility to operate effectively through changing economic conditions. We plan to generate strong cash flows from our operations and manage our product offerings, incentives, home pricing, sales pace and inventory levels to optimize the return on our inventory investments in each of our communities based on local housing market conditions. 31 Strategy Our operating strategy focuses on consistently enhancing long-term value to our shareholders by leveraging our financial and competitive position to maximize the returns on our inventory investments and generate consistent, sustainable profitability and cash flows, while managing risk and maintaining financial flexibility to navigate changing economic conditions. Our strategy includes the following initiatives: • Developing and retaining highly experienced and productive teams of personnel throughout our company that are aligned and focused on continuous improvement in our operational execution and financial performance. • Maintaining a significant cash balance and strong overall liquidity position while controlling our level of debt. • Allocating and actively managing our inventory investments across our operating markets to diversify our geographic risk. • Offering new home communities that appeal to a broad range of entry-level, move-up, active adult and luxury homebuyers based on consumer demand in each market. • Modifying product offerings, sales pace, home prices and incentives as necessary in each of our markets to meet consumer demand and maintain affordability. • Delivering high quality homes and a positive experience to our customers both during and after the sale. • Managing our inventory of homes under construction relative to demand in each of our markets, including starting construction on unsold homes to capture new home demand and actively controlling the number of unsold, completed homes in inventory. • Investing in lots, land and land development in desirable markets, while controlling the level of land and lots we own in each market relative to the local new home demand. • Controlling a significant portion of our land and finished lot position through purchase contracts and prioritizing the purchase of finished lots from Forestar and other land developers when possible. • Controlling the cost of labor and goods provided by subcontractors and vendors. • Improving the efficiency of our land development, construction, sales and other key operational activities. • Controlling our selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense infrastructure to match production levels. • Ensuring that our financial services business provides high quality mortgage and title services to homebuyers efficiently and effectively. • Investing in the construction and leasing of single-family and multi-family rental properties to meet rental demand in high growth suburban markets and selling these properties profitably. • Opportunistically evaluating potential acquisitions to enhance our operating platform. We believe our operating strategy, which has produced positive results in recent years, will allow us to successfully operate through changing economic conditions and maintain our strong financial performance and competitive position. However, we cannot provide any assurances that the initiatives listed above will continue to be successful, and we may need to adjust parts of our strategy to meet future market conditions. 32 Key Results Key financial results as of and for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023, were as follows: Consolidated Results: • Consolidated revenues increased 4% to $36.8 billion compared to $35.5 billion. • Consolidated pre-tax income was $6.3 billion in both years. • Consolidated pre-tax income was 17.1% of consolidated revenues compared to 17.8%. • Income tax expense was $1.5 billion in both years, and our effective tax rate was 23.5% compared to 24.1%. • Net income attributable to D.R. Horton was $4.8 billion compared to $4.7 billion. • Diluted net income per common share attributable to D.R. Horton increased 4% to $14.34 compared to $13.82. • Net cash provided by operations was $2.2 billion compared to $4.3 billion. • Stockholders’ equity was $25.3 billion compared to $22.7 billion. • Book value per common share increased to $78.12 compared to $67.78. • Debt to total capital was 18.9% compared to 18.3%, and net debt to total capital was 5.2% compared to 5.1%. Homebuilding: • Homebuilding revenues increased 7% to $34.0 billion compared to $31.7 billion. • Homes closed increased 8% to 89,690 homes, while the average closing price of those homes decreased 1% to $378,000. • Net sales orders increased 10% to 86,561 homes, and the value of net sales orders increased 11% to $32.7 billion. • Sales order backlog decreased 20% to 12,180 homes, and the value of sales order backlog decreased 19% to $4.8 billion. • Home sales gross margin was 23.5% in both years. • Homebuilding SG&A expense was 7.5% of homebuilding revenues compared to 7.1%. • Homebuilding pre-tax income was $5.5 billion compared to $5.3 billion. • Homebuilding pre-tax income was 16.1% of homebuilding revenues compared to 16.6%. • Homebuilding pre-tax return on inventory was 27.8% compared to 29.7%. • Net cash provided by homebuilding operations was $2.2 billion compared to $3.1 billion. • Homebuilding cash and cash equivalents totaled $3.6 billion compared to $2.9 billion. • Homebuilding inventories totaled $20.0 billion compared to $18.2 billion. • Homes in inventory totaled 37,400 compared to 42,000. • Owned lots totaled 152,500 compared to 141,100, and lots controlled through purchase contracts totaled 480,400 compared to 427,300. • Homebuilding debt was $2.9 billion compared to $2.3 billion. 33 Rental: • Rental revenues were $1.7 billion compared to $2.6 billion. • Rental pre-tax income was $228.7 million compared to $524.2 million. • Rental inventory totaled $2.9 billion compared to $2.7 billion. • Single-family rental homes closed totaled 3,970 compared to 6,175. • Multi-family rental units closed totaled 2,202 compared to 2,112. Forestar: • Forestar’s revenues increased 5% to $1.5 billion compared to $1.4 billion. Revenues in fiscal 2024 and 2023 included $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, of revenue from land and lot sales to our homebuilding segment. • Forestar’s lots sold increased 7% to 15,068 compared to 14,040. Lots sold to D.R. Horton totaled 13,267 compared to 12,249. • Forestar’s pre-tax income was $270.1 million compared to $221.6 million. • Forestar’s pre-tax income was 17.9% of revenues compared to 15.4%. • Forestar’s cash and cash equivalents totaled $481.2 million compared to $616.0 million. • Forestar’s inventories totaled $2.3 billion compared to $1.8 billion. • Forestar’s owned and controlled lots totaled 95,100 compared to 79,200. Of these lots, 37,700 were under contract to sell to or subject to a right of first offer with D.R. Horton compared to 31,400. • Forestar’s debt was $706.4 million compared to $695.0 million. • Forestar’s debt to total capital was 30.7% compared to 33.7%, and Forestar’s net debt to total capital was 12.4% compared to 5.5%. Financial Services: • Financial services revenues increased 10% to $882.5 million compared to $801.5 million. • Financial services pre-tax income increased 10% to $311.2 million compared to $283.3 million. • Financial services pre-tax income was 35.3% of financial services revenues in both years. 34 Results of Operations — Homebuilding Our operating segments are our 88 homebuilding divisions, our rental operations, our majority-owned Forestar residential lot development operations, our financial services operations and our other business activities. The homebuilding operating segments are aggregated into six reporting segments. These reporting segments, which we also refer to as reporting regions, have homebuilding operations located in the following states: The following tables and related discussion set forth key operating and financial data for our homebuilding operations by reporting segment as of and for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. _____________ (1) Net sales orders represent the number and dollar value of new sales contracts executed with customers (gross sales orders), net of cancelled sales orders. _____________ (1) Cancellation rate represents the number of cancelled sales orders divided by gross sales orders. 35 Net Sales Orders The number of net sales orders increased 10% during 2024 compared to 2023, and the value of net sales orders increased 11% to $32.7 billion (86,561 homes) in 2024 from $29.5 billion (78,342 homes) in 2023. The average selling price of net sales orders during 2024 was $377,900, up slightly from the prior year. During fiscal 2024, the markets contributing most to the increase in sales order volume were the Portland and Salt Lake City markets in the Northwest, the Nevada markets in the Southwest, the Dallas market in the South Central, the Tampa market in the Southeast, the North Carolina markets in the East and the suburban Washington, D.C. market in the North. Despite elevated mortgage interest rates and inflationary pressures during fiscal 2024, demand for new homes remained solid, and our net sales orders increased 10% compared to fiscal 2023. The disruptions in the supply chain for certain building materials and tightness in the labor market we experienced in recent years have largely subsided, and our average construction cycle time has returned to historical norms. The supply of both new and existing homes at affordable price points is still limited, and demographics supporting housing demand remain favorable; however, we are continuing to use incentives and pricing adjustments to adapt to current market conditions. We believe we are well-positioned to meet changing market conditions with our affordable product offerings and lot supply and will manage our home pricing, sales incentives and number of homes in inventory based on the level of homebuyer demand. We expect our incentive levels to remain elevated, assuming similar market conditions and no significant changes in mortgage interest rates. Our sales order cancellation rate (cancelled sales orders divided by gross sales orders for the period) was 18% in 2024 compared to 20% in 2023. Sales Order Backlog Sales order backlog represents homes under contract but not yet closed at the end of the period. Many of the contracts in our sales order backlog are subject to contingencies, including mortgage loan approval and buyers selling their existing homes, which can result in cancellations. A portion of the contracts in backlog will not result in closings due to cancellations. 36 Home Sales Revenue Revenues from home sales increased 7% to $33.9 billion (89,690 homes closed) in 2024 from $31.6 billion (82,917 homes closed) in 2023. The number of homes closed increased 8% compared to the prior year. The average selling price of homes closed during 2024 was $378,000, down 1% from the prior year. The markets contributing most to the increase in closings volume were the Portland and Salt Lake City markets in the Northwest, the California and Nevada markets in the Southwest, the North Carolina markets in the East and the suburban Washington, D.C. market in the North. Homebuilding Operating Margin Analysis Home Sales Gross Profit Gross profit from home sales increased to $8.0 billion in 2024 from $7.4 billion in 2023 and was 23.5% of home sales revenues in both years. We remain focused on managing the pricing, incentives and sales pace in each of our communities to optimize the returns on our inventory investments and adjust to local market conditions and new home demand. To adjust to changes in market conditions during fiscal 2023 and 2024, we have used a higher level of incentives and reduced home prices and sizes of our home offerings where necessary to provide better affordability to homebuyers. We expect our incentive levels to remain elevated, assuming similar market conditions and no significant changes in mortgage interest rates. 37 Land/Lot Sales and Other Revenues Land/lot sales and other revenues from our homebuilding operations were $58.2 million and $102.2 million in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. We continually evaluate our land and lot supply, and fluctuations in revenues and profitability from land sales occur based on how we manage our inventory levels in various markets. We generally purchase land and lots with the intent to build and sell homes on them. However, some of the land that we purchase includes commercially zoned parcels that we may sell to commercial developers. We may also sell residential lots or land parcels to manage our supply or for other strategic reasons. As of September 30, 2024, our homebuilding operations had $12.7 million of land held for sale that we expect to sell in the next twelve months. Inventory and Land Option Charges At the end of each quarter, we review the performance and outlook for all of our communities and land inventories for indicators of potential impairment and perform detailed impairment evaluations and analyses when necessary. As a result of this review, there were $8.3 million of impairments recorded in our homebuilding segment during the three months ended September 30, 2024. During fiscal 2024, impairment charges related to our homebuilding segment totaled $14.0 million compared to $7.7 million in fiscal 2023. As we manage our inventory investments across our operating markets to optimize returns and cash flows, we may modify our pricing and incentives, construction and development plans or land sale strategies in individual active communities and land held for development, which could result in the affected communities being evaluated for potential impairment. If the housing market or economic conditions are adversely affected for a prolonged period, we may be required to evaluate additional communities for potential impairment. These evaluations could result in impairment charges, which could be significant. During fiscal 2024 and 2023, earnest money and pre-acquisition cost write-offs related to our homebuilding segment’s land purchase contracts that we have terminated or expect to terminate were $54.9 million and $53.0 million, respectively. Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expense SG&A expense from homebuilding activities increased 14% to $2.6 billion in fiscal 2024 from $2.2 billion in fiscal 2023. SG&A expense as a percentage of homebuilding revenues was 7.5% and 7.1% in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. Employee compensation and related costs were $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively, representing 82% and 85% of SG&A costs in those years. These costs increased 10% in fiscal 2024 from the prior year. Our homebuilding operations employed 10,071 and 9,190 people at September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We attempt to control our homebuilding SG&A costs while ensuring that our infrastructure adequately supports our operations; however, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to maintain or improve upon the current SG&A expense as a percentage of revenues. Interest Incurred We capitalize interest costs incurred to inventory during active development and construction (active inventory). Capitalized interest is charged to cost of sales as the related inventory is delivered to the buyer. Interest incurred by our homebuilding operations decreased 27% to $50.5 million in fiscal 2024 from $68.8 million in fiscal 2023, primarily due to an 11% decrease in our average homebuilding debt. Interest charged to cost of sales was 0.4% of homebuilding cost of sales (excluding inventory and land option charges) in both years. Other Income Other income, net of other expenses, included in our homebuilding operations increased to $107.6 million in fiscal 2024 compared to $78.8 million in fiscal 2023, primarily due to an increase in interest income. Other income also consists of various other types of ancillary income, gains, expenses and losses not directly associated with sales of homes, land and lots. The activities that result in this ancillary income are not significant, either individually or in the aggregate. 38 Homebuilding Results by Reporting Region ________ (1) Expenses maintained at the corporate level consist primarily of interest and property taxes, which are capitalized and amortized to cost of sales or expensed directly, and the expenses related to operating our corporate office. The amortization of capitalized interest and property taxes is allocated to each segment based on the segment’s cost of sales, while expenses associated with the corporate office are allocated to each segment based on the segment’s inventory balances. Northwest Region — Homebuilding revenues increased 7% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, due to increases in the number of homes closed in our Portland and Salt Lake City markets, partially offset by a decrease in the average selling price of homes closed in most of the region’s markets. The region generated pre-tax income of $420.8 million in 2024 compared to $391.1 million in 2023. Gross profit from home sales as a percentage of home sales revenue (home sales gross profit percentage) increased by 50 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023 , primarily due to the average cost of homes closed decreasing by more than the average selling price of those homes . As a percentage of homebuilding revenues, SG&A expenses increased by 60 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023 , primarily due to an increase in SG&A expenses. Southwest Region — Homebuilding revenues increased 15% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, primarily due to increases in the number of homes closed, particularly in our California and Nevada markets. The region generated pre-tax income of $703.5 million in 2024 compared to $489.3 million in 2023. Home sales gross profit percentage increased by 270 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to the average selling price of homes closed increasing while the average cost of those homes decreased. As a perc entage of homebuilding revenues, SG&A expenses decreased by 20 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to the increase in homebuilding revenues. South Central Region — Homebuilding revenues increased 1% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. The region generated pre-tax income of $1.3 billion in 2024 compared to $1.4 billion in 2023. Home sales gross profit percentage decreased by 20 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to the average selling price of homes closed decreasing by more than the average cost of those homes . As a percentage of homebuilding revenues, SG&A expenses increased by 70 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to an increase in SG&A expenses. Southeast Region — Homebuilding revenues increased 1% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 . The region generated pre-tax income of $1.4 billion in 2024 compared to $1.7 billion in 2023. Home sales gross profit percentage decreased by 260 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023 , primarily due to the average selling price of homes closed decreasing while the average cost of those homes increased . As a percentage of homebuilding revenues, SG&A expenses increased by 60 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to an increase in SG&A expenses. 39 East Region — Homebuilding revenues increased 14% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, due to increases in the number of homes closed, particularly in our North Carolina markets. The region generated pre-tax income of $1.1 billion in 2024 compared to $935.7 million in 2023. Home sales gross profit percentage increased by 30 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023 , primarily due to the average cost of homes closed decreasing by more than the average selling price of those homes . As a percentage of homebuilding revenues, SG&A expenses increased by 50 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to an increase in SG&A expenses. North Region — Homebuilding revenues increased 16% in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 , due to increases in the number of homes closed, particularly in our suburban Washington, D.C. market. The region generated pre-tax income of $498.4 million in 2024 compared to $350.8 million in 2023. Home sales gross profit percentage increased by 290 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to the average cost of homes closed decreasing while the average selling price of those homes increased. A s a percentage of homebuilding revenues, SG&A expenses increased by 10 basis points in 2024 compared to 2023 . 40 Homebuilding Inventories, Land and Lot Position and Homes in Inventory We routinely enter into contracts to purchase land or developed residential lots at predetermined prices on a defined schedule commensurate with planned development or anticipated new home demand. At the time of purchase, the undeveloped land is generally vested with the rights to begin development or construction work, and we plan and coordinate the development of our land into residential lots for use in our homebuilding business. We manage our inventory of owned land and lots and homes under construction relative to demand in each of our markets, including starting construction on unsold homes to capture new home demand and actively controlling the number of unsold, completed homes in inventory. Our homebuilding segment’s inventories at September 30, 2024 and 2023 are summarized as follows: _____________ (1) Corporate and unallocated inventory consists primarily of capitalized interest and property taxes. 41 Our land and lot position and homes in inventory at September 30, 2024 and 2023 are summarized as follows: _________________________ (1) Land/lots owned included approximately 64,400 and 50,300 owned lots that are fully developed and ready for home construction at September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. (2) The total remaining purchase price of lots controlled through land and lot purchase contracts at September 30, 2024 and 2023 was $25.2 billion and $21.1 billion, respectively, secured by earnest money deposits of $2.2 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. The total remaining purchase price of lots controlled through land and lot purchase contracts at September 30, 2024 and 2023 included $1.9 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, related to lot purchase contracts with Forestar, secured by $193.3 million and $139.1 million, respectively, of earnest money. (3) Lots controlled at September 30, 2024 included approximately 37,700 lots owned by Forestar, 20,500 of which our homebuilding divisions had under contract to purchase and 17,200 of which our homebuilding divisions had a right of first offer to purchase. Of these, approximately 10,600 lots were in our Southeast region, 7,400 lots were in our East region, 7,000 lots were in our North region, 6,900 lots were in our South Central region, 3,600 lots were in our Southwest region and 2,200 lots were in our Northwest region. Lots controlled at September 30, 2023 included approximately 31,400 lots owned by Forestar, 14,400 of which our homebuilding divisions had under contract to purchase and 17,000 of which our homebuilding divisions had a right of first offer to purchase. (4) Approximately 25,700 and 27,000 of our homes in inventory were unsold at September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. At September 30, 2024, approximately 10,300 of our unsold homes were completed, of which approximately 1,100 homes had been completed for more than six months. At September 30, 2023, approximately 7,000 of our unsold homes were completed, of which approximately 620 homes had been completed for more than six months. Homes in inventory exclude approximately 2,400 and 2,100 model homes at September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 42 Results of Operations — Rental Our rental segment consists of single-family and multi-family rental operations. The single-family rental operations construct and lease single-family homes within a community and then generally market each community for a bulk sale of rental homes. The multi-family rental operations develop, construct, lease and sell residential rental properties, with a primary focus on constructing garden style apartment communities in high growth suburban markets. Single-family and multi-family rental property sales are recognized as revenues, and rental income is recognized as other income. The following tables provide further information regarding our rental operations as of and for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. Rental Operating Margin Analysis Revenues from our rental operations decreased to $1.7 billion in fiscal 2024 from $2.6 billion in fiscal 2023, and pre-tax income decreased to $228.7 million from $524.2 million. The decline in rental revenues and pre-tax income was primarily due to a decrease in the number of single-family homes closed and a decrease in the average selling price of multi-family units closed. 43 At September 30, 2024, our rental property inventory of $2.9 billion included $800.3 million of inventory related to our single-family rental operations and $2.1 billion of inventory related to our multi-family rental operations. At September 30, 2023, our rental property inventory of $2.7 billion included $1.3 billion of inventory related to our single-family rental operations and $1.4 billion of inventory related to our multi-family rental operations. Single-family rental homes and lots and multi-family rental units at September 30, 2024 and 2023 consisted of the following: ________________________ (1) Single-family rental homes at September 30, 2024 consist of 340 homes under construction and 2,800 completed homes compared to 1,260 homes under construction and 4,370 completed homes at September 30, 2023. (2) Single-family rental lots at September 30, 2024 consist of 910 undeveloped lots and 1,000 finished lots compared to 2,210 undeveloped lots and 1,170 finished lots at September 30, 2023. (3) Multi-family rental units at September 30, 2024 consist of 7,900 units under construction and 4,060 units that were substantially complete and in the lease-up phase compared to 7,200 units under construction and 1,950 units that were substantially complete at September 30, 2023. 44 Results of Operations — Forestar At September 30, 2024, we owned 62% of the outstanding shares of Forestar. Forestar is a publicly traded residential lot development company with operations in 59 markets across 24 states as of September 30, 2024. (See Note B to the accompanying financial statements for additional Forestar segment information.) Results of operations for the Forestar segment for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: Forestar’s revenues are primarily derived from sales of single-family residential lots to local, regional and national homebuilders and land bankers for homebuilders. The following tables provide further information regarding Forestar’s revenues and lot position as of and for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. 45 At September 30, 2024 and 2023, Forestar’s inventory, which includes land and lots developed, under development and held for development, totaled $2.3 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. Forestar’s inventory and land option charges consisted of $4.1 million of earnest money and pre-acquisition cost write-offs in fiscal 2024 and $19.4 million of impairment charges and $4.6 million of earnest money and pre-acquisition cost write-offs in fiscal 2023. SG&A expense for fiscal 2024 and 2023 included charges of $5.6 million and $3.8 million, respectively, related to the shared services agreement between Forestar and D.R. Horton whereby D.R. Horton provides Forestar with certain administrative, compliance, operational and procurement services. 46 Results of Operations — Financial Services The following tables and related discussion set forth key operating and financial data for our financial services operations, comprising DHI Mortgage and our subsidiary title companies, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023. Financial Services Operating Margin Analysis 47 Mortgage Loan Activity DHI Mortgage’s primary focus is to originate loans for our homebuilding operations, and those loan originations account for virtually all of its total loan volume. In fiscal 2024, the volume of first-lien loans originated or brokered by DHI Mortgage for our homebuyers increased 12%, primarily due to the 8% increase in the number of homes closed by our homebuilding operations, as well as an increase in the percentage of homes closed for which DHI Mortgage handled our homebuyers’ financing. The percentage of homes closed for which DHI Mortgage handled our homebuyers’ financing was 78% in fiscal 2024, up from 76% in fiscal 2023. This increase reflects DHI Mortgage’s ongoing efforts to align their business with our homebuilding operations by offering competitive products and pricing. The number of loans sold increased 14% in fiscal 2024 compared to the prior year. Virtually all of the mortgage loans held for sale on September 30, 2024 were eligible for sale to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. During fiscal 2024, approximately 73% of our mortgage loans were sold directly to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or into securities backed by Ginnie Mae, and 26% were sold to one other major financial entity. Changes in market conditions could result in a greater concentration of our mortgage sales in future periods to fewer financial entities and directly to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, and we may need to make other adjustments to our mortgage operations. Financial Services Revenues and Expenses Total loan origination volume increased 12% during fiscal 2024, and revenues from our mortgage operations increased 11% to $681.6 million from $616.3 million in fiscal 2023. Revenues from our title operations increased 8% to $200.9 million in fiscal 2024 from $185.2 million in fiscal 2023. General and administrative (G&A) expense related to our financial services operations increased 13% to $672.4 million in fiscal 2024 from $594.9 million in the prior year. G&A expenses increased in fiscal 2024 due to increased loan origination volume. As a percentage of financial services revenues, G&A expense was 76.2% in fiscal 2024 compared to 74.2% in the prior year. Fluctuations in financial services G&A expense as a percentage of revenues can occur because some components of revenue fluctuate differently than loan volumes, and some expenses are not directly related to mortgage loan volume or to changes in the amount of revenue earned. Our financial services operations employed 3,149 and 2,895 people at September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Other income, net of other expense, included in our financial services operations consists primarily of the interest income of our mortgage subsidiary. Other income increased 32% to $101.1 million in fiscal 2024 from $76.7 million in the prior year, primarily due to an increase in interest income on our loan origination volume. Results of Operations — Other Businesses In addition to our homebuilding, rental, Forestar and financial services operations, we engage in other business activities through our subsidiaries. We conduct insurance-related operations, own water rights and other water-related assets and own non-residential real estate including ranch land and improvements. The pre-tax income of all of our subsidiaries engaged in other business activities was $73.4 million in fiscal 2024 compared to $32.4 million in fiscal 2023. The pre-tax income in fiscal 2024 includes other income of $27.9 million related to a sale of mineral rights. 48 Results of Operations — Consolidated Income before Income Taxes Pre-tax income was $6.3 billion in both fiscal 2024 and 2023. In fiscal 2024, our homebuilding, rental, financial services and Forestar businesses generated pre-tax income of $5.5 billion, $228.7 million, $311.2 million and $270.1 million, respectively, compared to $5.3 billion, $524.2 million, $283.3 million and $221.6 million, respectively, in fiscal 2023. Income Taxes Our income tax expense was $1.5 billion in both fiscal 2024 and 2023, and our effective tax rate was 23.5% and 24.1%, respectively, in those years. The effective tax rates for both years include an expense for state income taxes and tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and federal energy efficient homes tax credits. Our deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities, were $182.4 million at September 30, 2024 compared to $202.0 million at September 30, 2023. We have a valuation allowance of $14.9 million and $14.8 million at September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, related to deferred tax assets for state net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards that are expected to expire before being realized. We will continue to evaluate both the positive and negative evidence in determining the need for a valuation allowance with respect to our remaining state NOL and tax credit carryforwards. Any reversal of the valuation allowance in future periods will impact our effective tax rate. 49 Capital Resources and Liquidity We have historically funded our operations with cash flows from operating activities, borrowings under bank credit facilities and the issuance of new debt securities. Our current levels of cash, borrowing capacity and balance sheet leverage provide us with the operational flexibility to adjust to changes in economic and market conditions. We are making investments in our homebuilding and rental inventories to expand our operations and consolidate market share. We are also returning capital to our shareholders through repurchases of our common stock and dividend payments. We are maintaining significant homebuilding cash balances and liquidity to support the increased scale and level of activity in our business and to provide flexibility to adjust to changing conditions and opportunities. At September 30, 2024, we had outstanding notes payable with varying maturities totaling an aggregate principal amount of $5.9 billion. $2.2 billion was payable within 12 months, including $1.5 billion which is outstanding under our mortgage repurchase facilities and $500 million principal amount of 2.5% homebuilding senior notes that were repaid at maturity in October 2024. Future interest payments associated with the outstanding notes total $745.5 million, of which $251.7 million is payable within 12 months. At September 30, 2024, our ratio of debt to total capital (notes payable divided by stockholders’ equity plus notes payable) was 18.9% compared to 18.3% at September 30, 2023. Our net debt to total capital (notes payable net of cash divided by stockholders’ equity plus notes payable net of cash) was 5.2% at September 30, 2024 compared to 5.1% at September 30, 2023. Over the long term, we intend to maintain our ratio of debt to total capital around or slightly below 20%. At September 30, 2024, we had outstanding letters of credit of $242.9 million and surety bonds of $3.5 billion, issued by third parties to secure performance under various contracts. We expect that our performance obligations secured by these letters of credit and bonds will generally be completed in the ordinary course of business and in accordance with the applicable contractual terms. When we complete our performance obligations, the related letters of credit and bonds are generally released shortly thereafter, leaving us with no continuing obligations. We have no material third-party guarantees. We regularly assess our projected capital requirements to fund growth in our business, repay debt obligations, pay dividends, repurchase our common stock and maintain sufficient cash and liquidity levels to support our other operational needs, and we regularly evaluate our opportunities to raise additional capital. D.R. Horton has an automatically effective universal shelf registration statement filed with the SEC in July 2024, registering debt and equity securities that may be issued from time to time in amounts to be determined. Forestar also has an effective shelf registration statement filed with the SEC in September 2024, registering $750 million of equity securities. As market conditions permit, we may issue new debt or equity securities through the capital markets or obtain additional bank financing to fund our projected capital requirements or provide additional liquidity. We believe that our existing cash resources, revolving credit facilities, mortgage repurchase facilities and ability to access the capital markets or obtain additional bank financing will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our near-term working capital needs and debt obligations for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. Capital Resources - Homebuilding Cash and Cash Equivalents — At September 30, 2024, cash and cash equivalents of our homebuilding segment totaled $3.6 billion. Bank Credit Facility — We have a $2.19 billion senior unsecured homebuilding revolving credit facility with an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility to $3.0 billion, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments. The facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit with a sublimit equal to 100% of the total revolving credit commitments. Letters of credit issued under the facility reduce the available borrowing capacity. The maturity date of the facility is October 28, 2027. At September 30, 2024, there were no borrowings outstanding and $210.1 million of letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility, resulting in available capacity of $1.98 billion. 50 Our homebuilding revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on our operations and activities, including requiring the maintenance of a maximum allowable leverage ratio and a borrowing base restriction if our leverage ratio exceeds a certain level. These covenants are measured as defined in the credit agreement governing the facility and are reported to the lenders quarterly. A failure to comply with these financial covenants could allow the lending banks to terminate the availability of funds under the revolving credit facility or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity. The credit agreement governing the facility imposes restrictions on the creation of secured debt and liens. At September 30, 2024, we were in compliance with all of the covenants, limitations and restrictions of our homebuilding revolving credit facility. Public Unsecured Debt — At September 30, 2024, we had $2.8 billion principal amount of homebuilding senior notes outstanding that were scheduled to mature from October 2024 through October 2034. In August 2024, we issued $700 million principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due October 15, 2034, with interest payable semi-annually. The annual effective interest rate of these notes after giving effect to the amortization of the discount and financing costs is 5.2%. In October 2024, we repaid $500 million principal amount of our 2.5% senior notes at maturity. The indenture governing our senior notes imposes restrictions on the creation of secured debt and liens. At September 30, 2024, we were in compliance with all of the limitations and restrictions associated with our public debt obligations. Our homebuilding revolving credit facility and homebuilding senior unsecured notes are guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc.’s significant wholly-owned homebuilding subsidiaries. Debt and Stock Repurchase Authorizations — In July 2024, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $500 million of our debt securities. Effective July 18, 2024, our Board authorized the repurchase of up to $4.0 billion of our common stock, replacing the previous authorization that was effective as of October 31, 2023. During fiscal 2024, we repurchased 12.5 million shares at a total cost, including commissions and excise taxes, of $1.8 billion, of which $1.4 billion was repurchased under previous authorizations. At September 30, 2024, the full amount of the debt repurchase authorization was remaining, and $3.6 billion of the stock repurchase authorization was remaining. The debt and stock repurchase authorizations have no expiration date. Capital Resources - Rental During the past few years, we have made significant investments in our rental operations. The inventory in our rental segment totaled $2.9 billion and $2.7 billion at September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Cash and Cash Equivalents — At September 30, 2024, cash and cash equivalents of our rental segment totaled $157.6 million. Bank Credit Facility — Our rental subsidiary, DRH Rental, has a $1.05 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility to $2.0 billion, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments. Availability under the rental revolving credit facility is subject to a borrowing base calculation based on the book value of DRH Rental’s real estate assets and unrestricted cash. The facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit with a sublimit equal to the greater of $100 million and 50% of the total revolving credit commitments. The maturity date of the facility is October 10, 2027. Borrowings and repayments under the facility totaled $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, during fiscal 2024. At September 30, 2024, there were $745 million of borrowings outstanding at a 6.9% annual interest rate and no letters of credit issued under the facility, resulting in available capacity of $305 million. The rental revolving credit facility includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, events of default and financial covenants. The financial covenants require DRH Rental to maintain a minimum level of tangible net worth, a minimum level of liquidity and a maximum allowable leverage ratio. These covenants are measured as defined in the credit agreement governing the facility and are reported to the lenders quarterly. A failure to comply with these financial covenants could allow the lending banks to terminate the availability of funds under the revolving credit facility or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity. At September 30, 2024, DRH Rental was in compliance with all of the covenants, limitations and restrictions of its revolving credit facility. 51 The rental revolving credit facility is guaranteed by DRH Rental’s wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not immaterial subsidiaries and have not been designated as unrestricted subsidiaries. The rental revolving credit facility is not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the subsidiaries that guarantee the debt of our homebuilding, Forestar or financial services operations. Capital Resources - Forestar The achievement of Forestar’s long-term growth objectives will depend on its ability to obtain financing and generate sufficient cash flows from operations. As market conditions permit, Forestar may issue new debt or equity securities through the capital markets or obtain additional bank financing to provide capital for future growth and additional liquidity. At September 30, 2024, Forestar’s ratio of debt to total capital (notes payable divided by stockholders’ equity plus notes payable) was 30.7% compared to 33.7% at September 30, 2023. Forestar’s ratio of net debt to total capital (notes payable net of cash divided by stockholders’ equity plus notes payable net of cash) was 12.4% compared to 5.5% at September 30, 2023. Cash and Cash Equivalents — At September 30, 2024, Forestar had cash and cash equivalents of $481.2 million. Bank Credit Facility — Forestar has a $410 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility to $600 million, subject to certain conditions and availability of additional bank commitments. The facility also provides for the issuance of letters of credit with a sublimit equal to the greater of $100 million and 50% of the total revolving credit commitments. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility are subject to a borrowing base calculation based on the book value of Forestar’s real estate assets and unrestricted cash. Letters of credit issued under the facility reduce the available borrowing capacity. The maturity date of the facility is October 28, 2026. At September 30, 2024, there were no borrowings outstanding and $32.8 million of letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility, resulting in available capacity of $377.2 million. The Forestar revolving credit facility includes customary affirmative and negative covenants, events of default and financial covenants. The financial covenants require Forestar to maintain a minimum level of tangible net worth, a minimum level of liquidity and a maximum allowable leverage ratio. These covenants are measured as defined in the credit agreement governing the facility and are reported to the lenders quarterly. A failure to comply with these financial covenants could allow the lending banks to terminate the availability of funds under the revolving credit facility or cause any outstanding borrowings to become due and payable prior to maturity. Unsecured Debt — As of September 30, 2024, Forestar had $700 million principal amount of senior notes issued pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which represent unsecured obligations of Forestar. These notes include $400 million principal amount of 3.85% senior notes that mature in May 2026 and $300 million principal amount of 5.0% senior notes that mature in March 2028. At September 30, 2024, Forestar was in compliance with all of the covenants, limitations and restrictions of its revolving credit facility and senior note obligations. Forestar’s revolving credit facility and its senior unsecured notes are guaranteed by Forestar’s wholly-owned subsidiaries that are not immaterial subsidiaries and have not been designated as unrestricted subsidiaries. They are not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the subsidiaries that guarantee the debt of our homebuilding, rental or financial services operations. Debt Repurchase Authorization — In April 2020, Forestar’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $30 million of Forestar’s debt securities. All of the $30 million authorization was remaining at September 30, 2024, and the authorization has no expiration date. Issuance of Common Stock — During fiscal 2024, Forestar issued 546,174 shares of common stock under its at-the-market equity offering (ATM) program for proceeds of $19.7 million, net of commissions and other issuance costs totaling $0.4 million. In September 2024, Forestar filed a new shelf registration statement, which became effective in October 2024, registering $750 million of equity securities. At the time of filing the new registration statement, $728.1 million of equity securities remained available for issuance under Forestar’s prior shelf registration statement, which has since expired. Forestar’s ATM program expired in October 2024, and Forestar anticipates entering into a new ATM program under its September 2024 shelf registration statement. 52 Capital Resources - Financial Services Cash and Cash Equivalents — At September 30, 2024, cash and cash equivalents of our financial services segment totaled $242.3 million. Mortgage Repurchase Facilities — Our mortgage subsidiary, DHI Mortgage, has two mortgage repurchase facilities, one of which is committed and the other of which is uncommitted, that provide financing and liquidity to DHI Mortgage by facilitating purchase transactions in which DHI Mortgage transfers eligible loans to counterparties upon receipt of funds from the counterparties. DHI Mortgage then has the right and obligation to repurchase the purchased loans upon their sale to third-party purchasers in the secondary market or within specified time frames in accordance with the terms of the mortgage repurchase facilities. In August 2024, the committed mortgage repurchase facility was amended to extend its maturity date to May 9, 2025. The facility has a total capacity of $1.6 billion, which can be increased to $2.0 billion subject to the availability of additional commitments. At September 30, 2024, DHI Mortgage had an obligation of $1.2 billion under the committed mortgage repurchase facility at a 6.5% annual interest rate. At September 30, 2024, the uncommitted mortgage repurchase facility had a borrowing capacity of $500 million, of which DHI Mortgage had an obligation of $304.5 million at a 6.1% annual interest rate. At September 30, 2024, $2.09 billion of mortgage loans held for sale with a collateral value of $2.05 billion were pledged under the committed mortgage repurchase facility, and $322.3 million of mortgage loans held for sale with a collateral value of $310.8 million were pledged under the uncommitted mortgage repurchase facility. The facilities contain financial covenants as to the mortgage subsidiary’s minimum required tangible net worth, its maximum allowable indebtedness to tangible net worth ratio and its minimum required liquidity. At September 30, 2024, DHI Mortgage was in compliance with all of the conditions and covenants of the mortgage repurchase facilities. These mortgage repurchase facilities are not guaranteed by D.R. Horton, Inc. or any of the subsidiaries that guarantee the debt of our homebuilding, rental or Forestar operations. In the past, DHI Mortgage has been able to renew or extend its committed mortgage repurchase facility at a sufficient capacity and on satisfactory terms prior to its maturity and obtain temporary additional commitments through amendments to the facility during periods of higher than normal volumes of mortgages held for sale. The liquidity of our financial services business depends upon its continued ability to renew and extend the committed mortgage repurchase facility or to obtain other additional financing in sufficient capacities. Operating Cash Flow Activities In fiscal 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $2.2 billion compared to $4.3 billion in fiscal 2023. Cash provided by operating activities in the current year primarily consisted of cash provided by our homebuilding segment. The most significant source of cash provided by operating activities in both years was net income. Cash provided by a decrease in construction in progress and finished home inventory was $141.3 million in fiscal 2024 compared to $861.8 million in fiscal 2023, due to a decrease in our homes in inventory. Cash used to increase residential land and lots was $2.6 billion and $1.2 billion in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. Investing Cash Flow Activities In fiscal 2024, net cash used in investing activities was $190.6 million compared to $310.2 million in fiscal 2023. In fiscal 2024, uses of cash included purchases of property and equipment totaling $165.3 million. In fiscal 2023, uses of cash included the acquisitions of the homebuilding operations of Riggins Custom Homes for $107 million and Truland Homes for $110 million and purchases of property and equipment totaling $148.6 million. 53 Financing Cash Flow Activities We expect the short-term financing needs of our operations will be funded with existing cash, cash generated from operations and borrowings under our credit facilities. Long-term financing needs for our operations may be funded with the issuance of senior unsecured debt securities or equity securities through the capital markets. In fiscal 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $1.4 billion, consisting primarily of cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock of $1.8 billion, payment of cash dividends totaling $395.2 million and net payments on our mortgage repurchase facilities of $135.8 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by note proceeds from our issuance of $700 million principal amount of 5.0% homebuilding senior notes and net borrowings on our rental revolving credit facility of $345 million. In fiscal 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $2.7 billion, consisting primarily of cash used to repurchase shares of our common stock of $1.2 billion, repayment of $300 million principal amount of our 4.75% homebuilding senior notes and $400 million principal amount of our 5.75% homebuilding senior notes, net payments on our rental revolving credit facility of $400 million and payment of cash dividends totaling $341.2 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by net advances on our mortgage repurchase facilities of $51.3 million. Our Board of Directors approved and we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.30 per common share in fiscal 2024 and $0.25 per common share in fiscal 2023. In October 2024, our Board approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.40 per common share, payable on November 19, 2024 to stockholders of record on November 12, 2024. The declaration of future cash dividends is at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon, among other things, our future earnings, cash flows, capital requirements, financial condition and general business conditions. 54 Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information As of September 30, 2024, D.R. Horton, Inc. had $2.8 billion principal amount of homebuilding senior unsecured notes outstanding due through October 2034 and no amounts outstanding on its homebuilding revolving credit facility. All of the homebuilding senior notes and the homebuilding revolving credit facility are fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, by certain subsidiaries of D.R. Horton, Inc. (Guarantors or Guarantor Subsidiaries). Each of the Guarantor Subsidiaries is 100% owned, directly or indirectly, by D.R. Horton, Inc. Our subsidiaries associated with the single-family and multi-family rental operations, Forestar lot development operations, financial services operations and certain other subsidiaries do not guarantee the homebuilding senior notes or the homebuilding revolving credit facility (collectively, Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries). The guarantees are senior unsecured obligations of each Guarantor and rank equal with all existing and future senior debt of such Guarantor and senior to all subordinated debt of such Guarantor. The guarantees are effectively subordinated to any secured debt of such Guarantor to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. The guarantees will be structurally subordinated to indebtedness and other liabilities of Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries of the Guarantors. The guarantees by a Guarantor Subsidiary will be automatically and unconditionally released and discharged upon: (1) the sale or other disposition of its common stock whereby it is no longer a subsidiary of ours; (2) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of its assets (other than to us or another Guarantor); (3) its merger or consolidation with an entity other than us or another Guarantor; or (4) its ceasing to guarantee any of our publicly traded debt securities and ceasing to guarantee any of our obligations under our homebuilding revolving credit facility. The enforceability of the obligations of the Guarantor Subsidiaries under their guarantees may be subject to review under applicable federal or state laws relating to fraudulent conveyance or transfer, voidable preference and similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally. In certain circumstances, a court could void the guarantees, subordinate amounts owing under the guarantees or order other relief detrimental to the holders of our guaranteed obligations. The indenture governing our homebuilding senior notes contains a “savings clause,” which limits the liability of each Guarantor on its guarantee to the maximum amount that such Guarantor can incur without risk that its guarantee will be subject to avoidance as a fraudulent transfer. This provision may not be effective to protect such guarantees from fraudulent transfer challenges or, if it does, it may reduce such Guarantor’s obligation such that the remaining amount due and collectible under the guarantees would not suffice, if necessary, to pay the notes in full when due. 55 The following tables present summarized financial information for D.R. Horton, Inc. and the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis after intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated among D.R. Horton, Inc. and the Guarantor Subsidiaries, as well as their investment in, and equity in earnings from the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. 56 Seasonality Although significant changes in market conditions have impacted our seasonal patterns in the past and could do so again in the future, we generally close more homes and generate greater revenues and pre-tax income in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. The seasonal nature of our business can also cause significant variations in the working capital requirements for our homebuilding, lot development, financial services and rental operations. As a result of seasonal activity, our quarterly results of operations and financial position at the end of a particular fiscal quarter are not necessarily representative of the balance of our fiscal year. 57 Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements contained in this report, as well as in other materials we have filed or will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, statements made by us in periodic press releases and oral statements we make to analysts, stockholders and the press in the course of presentations about us, may be construed as “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. These forward-looking statements typically include the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “consider,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “goal,” “intend,” “likely,” “may,” “outlook,” “plan,” “possible,” “potential,” “predict,” “projection,” “seek,” “should,” “strategy,” “target,” “will,” “would” or other words of similar meaning. Any or all of the forward-looking statements included in this report and in any other of our reports or public statements may not approximate actual experience, and the expectations derived from them may not be realized, due to risks, uncertainties and other factors. As a result, actual results may differ materially from the expectations or results we discuss in the forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to: • the cyclical nature of the homebuilding, rental and lot development industries and changes in economic, real estate or other conditions; • adverse developments affecting the capital markets and financial institutions, which could limit our ability to access capital, increase our cost of capital and impact our liquidity and capital resources; • reductions in the availability of mortgage financing provided by government agencies, changes in government financing programs, a decrease in our ability to sell mortgage loans on attractive terms or an increase in mortgage interest rates; • the risks associated with our land, lot and rental inventory; • our ability to effect our growth strategies, acquisitions, investments or other strategic initiatives successfully; • the impact of an inflationary, deflationary or higher interest rate environment; • risks of acquiring land, building materials and skilled labor and challenges obtaining regulatory approvals; • the effects of public health issues such as a major epidemic or pandemic on the economy and our businesses; • the effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on our business and financial results; • home warranty and construction defect claims; • the effects of health and safety incidents; • reductions in the availability of performance bonds; • increases in the costs of owning a home; • the effects of information technology failures, data security breaches, and the failure to satisfy privacy and data protection laws and regulations; • the effects of governmental regulations and environmental matters on our land development and housing operations; • the effects of governmental regulations on our financial services operations; • the effects of competitive conditions within the industries in which we operate; • our ability to manage and service our debt and comply with related debt covenants, restrictions and limitations; • the effects of negative publicity; • the effects of the loss of key personnel; and • the effects of actions by activist stockholders. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. However, any further disclosures made on related subjects in subsequent reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K should be consulted. Additional information about issues that could lead to material changes in performance and risk factors that have the potential to affect us is contained in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” under Part I of this annual report on Form 10-K. 58 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General — A comprehensive enumeration of the significant accounting policies of D.R. Horton, Inc. and subsidiaries is presented in Note A to the accompanying financial statements as of September 30, 2024 and 2023, and for the years ended September 30, 2024, 2023 and 2022. Each of our accounting policies has been chosen based upon current authoritative literature that collectively comprises U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In instances where alternative methods of accounting are permissible under GAAP, we have chosen the method that most appropriately reflects the nature of our business, the results of our operations and our financial condition, and have consistently applied those methods over each of the periods presented in the financial statements. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors has reviewed and approved the accounting policies selected. We believe the following critical accounting policies describe the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition — We generally recognize homebuilding revenue and related profit at the time of the closing of a sale, when title to and possession of the property are transferred to the buyer. Our performance obligation, to deliver the agreed-upon home, is generally satisfied in less than one year from the original contract date. Proceeds from home closings held for our benefit at title companies are included in homebuilding cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets. When we execute sales contracts with our homebuyers, or when we require advance payment from homebuyers for custom changes, upgrades or options related to their homes, we record the cash deposits received as liabilities until the homes are closed or the contracts are cancelled. We either retain or refund to the homebuyer deposits on cancelled sales contracts, depending upon the applicable provisions of the contract or other circumstances. Revenues associated with our mortgage operations primarily include net gains on the sale of mortgage loans and servicing rights. We typically elect the fair value option for our mortgage loan originations whereby mortgage loans held for sale are recorded at fair value based on either sale commitments or current market quotes and loan values are adjusted through revenues for subsequent changes in fair value until the loans are sold. Expected gains and losses from the sale of servicing rights are included in the measurement of all written loan commitments that are accounted for at fair value through revenues at the time of commitment. We sell substantially all of the mortgages we originate and the related servicing rights to third-party purchasers. Interest income is earned from the date a mortgage loan is originated until the loan is sold. Mortgage loans are sold with limited recourse provisions, which can result in repurchases of loans previously sold to investors or payments to reimburse investors for loan losses. Based on historical experience, analysis of the volume of mortgages we originated, discussions with our mortgage purchasers and current housing and credit market conditions, we estimate and record a loss reserve for mortgage loans held in portfolio and mortgage loans held for sale, as well as known and projected mortgage loan repurchase requests. Inventories and Cost of Sales — Inventory includes the costs of direct land acquisition, land development and construction, capitalized interest, real estate taxes and direct overhead costs incurred during development and construction. Costs that we incur after projects or homes are substantially complete, such as utilities, maintenance, and cleaning, are charged to SG&A expense as incurred. All indirect overhead costs, such as compensation of sales personnel, division and region management, and the costs of advertising and builder’s risk insurance are charged to SG&A expense as incurred. Land and development costs are typically allocated to individual residential lots on a pro-rata basis, and the costs of residential lots are transferred to construction in progress when home construction begins. Home construction costs are specifically identified and recorded to individual homes. Cost of sales for homes closed includes the specific construction costs of each home and all applicable land acquisition, land development and related costs (both incurred and estimated to be incurred) allocated to each residential lot based upon the total number of homes expected to be closed in each community. Cost of sales for lots sold includes all applicable land acquisition, land development and related costs (both incurred and estimated to be incurred) allocated to each residential lot in the community. Any changes to the estimated total development costs subsequent to the initial home or lot closings in a community are generally allocated on a pro-rata basis to the remaining homes or lots in the community associated with the relevant development activity. 59 When a home is closed, we generally have not paid all incurred costs necessary to complete the home. We record a liability and a corresponding charge to cost of sales for the amount estimated to ultimately be paid related to completed homes that have been closed. We compare our home construction budgets to actual recorded costs to determine the additional costs remaining to be paid on each closed home. We monitor the accrual by comparing actual costs incurred on closed homes in subsequent months to the amounts previously accrued. Although actual costs to be paid in the future on previously closed homes could differ from our current accruals, such differences have not been significant. At the end of each quarter, we review the performance and outlook for all of our communities and land inventories for indicators of potential impairment. We generally review our inventory for impairment indicators at the community level, and the inventory within each community is categorized as land held for development, residential land and lots developed and under development, land held for sale, rental properties and construction in progress and finished homes, based on the stage of production or plans for future development or sale. A particular community often includes inventory in more than one category. In certain situations, inventory may be analyzed separately for impairment purposes based on its product type or future plans. In reviewing each of our communities, we determine if impairment indicators exist on inventory held and used by analyzing a variety of factors including, but not limited to, the following: • gross margins on homes closed in recent months; • projected gross margins on homes sold but not closed; • projected gross margins based on community budgets; • projected gross margins of rental property sales; • trends in gross margins, average selling prices or cost of sales; • sales absorption rates; and • performance of other communities in nearby locations. If indicators of impairment are present for a community, we perform an impairment evaluation of the community, which includes an analysis to determine if the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than their carrying amounts. If so, impairment charges are recorded to cost of sales if the fair value of such assets is less than their carrying amounts. These estimates of cash flows are significantly impacted by community specific factors including estimates of the amounts and timing of future revenues and estimates of the amount of land development, materials and labor costs which, in turn, may be impacted by the following local market conditions: • supply and availability of new and existing homes; • location and desirability of our communities; • variety of product types offered in the area; • pricing and use of incentives by us and our competitors; • alternative uses for our land or communities such as the sale of land, finished lots or home sites to third parties; • amount of land and lots we own or control in a particular market or sub-market; and • local economic and demographic trends. For those assets deemed to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Our determination of fair value is primarily based on discounting the estimated cash flows at a rate commensurate with the inherent risks associated with the assets and related estimated cash flow streams. When an impairment charge for a community is determined, the charge is then allocated to each lot in the community in the same manner as land and development costs are allocated to each lot. Impairment charges are also recorded on finished homes in substantially completed communities and completed rental properties when events or circumstances indicate that the carrying values are greater than the fair values less estimated costs to sell these homes. 60 We rarely purchase land for resale. However, when we own land or communities under development that do not fit into our development and construction plans, and we determine that we will sell the asset, the project is accounted for as land held for sale if certain criteria are met. We record land held for sale at the lesser of its carrying value or fair value less estimated costs to sell. In performing the impairment evaluation for land held for sale, we consider several factors including, but not limited to, recent offers received to purchase the property, prices for land in recent comparable sales transactions and market analysis studies, which include the estimated price a willing buyer would pay for the land. If the estimated fair value less costs to sell an asset is less than the current carrying value, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value less costs to sell. The key assumptions relating to inventory valuations are impacted by local market and economic conditions, and are inherently uncertain. Although our quarterly assessments reflect management’s best estimates, due to uncertainties in the estimation process, actual results could differ from such estimates. Warranty Claims — We typically provide our homebuyers with a ten-year limited warranty for major defects in structural elements such as framing components and foundation systems, a two-year limited warranty on major mechanical systems and a one-year limited warranty on other construction components. Since we subcontract our construction work to subcontractors who typically provide us with an indemnity and a certificate of insurance prior to receiving payments for their work, claims relating to workmanship and materials are generally the primary responsibility of the subcontractors. Warranty liabilities have been established by charging cost of sales for each home delivered. The amounts charged are based on management’s estimate of expected warranty-related costs under all unexpired warranty obligation periods. Our warranty liability is based upon historical warranty cost experience in each market in which we operate. Actual future warranty costs could differ from our currently estimated amounts. A 10% change in the historical warranty rates used to estimate our warranty accrual would not result in a material change in our accrual. For additional information regarding our warranty liability, see Note L, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Legal Claims and Insurance — We are named as a defendant in various claims, complaints and other legal actions in the ordinary course of business. At any point in time, we are managing several hundred individual claims related to construction defect matters, personal injury claims, employment matters, land development issues, contract disputes and other matters. We have established reserves for these contingencies based on the estimated costs of pending claims and the estimated costs of anticipated future claims related to previously closed homes. Approximately 97% of these reserves related to construction defect matters at both September 30, 2024 and 2023. Our reserves for construction defect claims include the estimated costs of both known claims and anticipated future claims. At September 30, 2024 and 2023, we had reserves for approximately 825 and 600 pending construction defect claims, respectively, and no individual existing claim was material to our financial statements. During fiscal 2024, we were notified of approximately 600 new construction defect claims and resolved 375 construction defect claims for a total cost of $55.0 million. We have closed a significant number of homes during recent years, and we may be subject to future construction defect claims on these homes. Although regulations vary from state to state, construction defect issues can generally be reported for up to ten years after the home has closed in many states in which we operate. Historical data and trends regarding the frequency of claims incurred and the costs to resolve claims relative to the types of products and markets where we operate are used to estimate the construction defect liabilities for both existing and anticipated future claims. These estimates are subject to ongoing revision as the circumstances of individual pending claims and historical data and trends change. Adjustments to estimated reserves are recorded in the accounting period in which the change in estimate occurs. Historical trends in construction defect claims have been inconsistent, and we believe they may continue to fluctuate. We also believe that fluctuations in housing market conditions can affect the frequency and cost of construction defect claims. If the ultimate resolution of construction defect claims resulting from our home closings in prior years varies from current expectations, it could significantly change our estimates regarding the frequency and timing of claims incurred and the costs to resolve existing and anticipated future claims, which would impact the construction defect reserves in the future. If the frequency of claims incurred or costs of existing and future legal claims significantly exceed our current estimates, they will have a significant negative impact on our future earnings and liquidity. 61 We estimate and record receivables under the applicable insurance policies related to our estimated contingencies for known claims and anticipated future construction defect claims on previously closed homes and other legal claims and lawsuits incurred in the ordinary course of business when recovery is probable. However, because the self-insured retentions under these policies are significant, we anticipate we will largely be self-insured. Additionally, we may have the ability to recover a portion of our losses from our subcontractors and their insurance carriers when we have been named as an additional insured on their insurance policies. The estimation of losses related to these reserves and the related estimates of recoveries from insurance policies are subject to a high degree of variability due to uncertainties such as trends in construction defect claims relative to our markets and the types of products built, claim frequency, claim settlement costs and patterns, insurance industry practices and legal interpretations, among others. Due to the high degree of judgment required in establishing reserves for these contingencies, actual future costs and recoveries from insurance could differ significantly from current estimated amounts. A 10% increase in the claim frequency and the average cost per claim used to estimate the reserves would result in an increase of approximately $172.3 million in our reserves and a $43.3 million increase in our insurance receivable, resulting in additional expense of $129.0 million. A 10% decrease in the claim frequency and the average cost per claim would result in a decrease of approximately $154.6 million in our reserves and a $41.5 million decrease in our insurance receivable, resulting in a reduction in expense of $113.1 million. For additional information regarding our legal claims reserves, see Note L, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Pending Accounting Standards In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2023-07, “Segment Reporting - Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures,” which is intended to improve reportable segment disclosures. The ASU expands public entities’ segment disclosures by requiring disclosure of significant segment expenses that are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and included within each reported measure of segment profit or loss. It also requires disclosure of the amount and description of the composition of other segment items and interim disclosures of a reportable segment’s profit or loss and assets. The standard is effective for our annual periods beginning in fiscal 2025 and interim periods beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2026 on a retrospective basis to all periods presented. This standard will impact our disclosures but will not impact our consolidated financial statements. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU 2023-09, “Income Taxes - Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures,” which requires disclosure of disaggregated income taxes paid, prescribes standard categories for the components of the effective tax rate reconciliation and modifies other income tax related disclosures. The standard is effective for us beginning October 1, 2025, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU 2024-03, “Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income - Expense Disaggregation Disclosures,” which requires disclosure of certain costs and expenses on an interim and annual basis in the notes to the financial statements. The standard is effective for our annual periods beginning in fiscal 2028 and interim periods beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2029, with early adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact this standard will have on our disclosures. 62